ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2099	I'll open the 24th. Meeting of the National Council and welcome all of you very cordially. ==References====External links== Meeting of 12. ==References====External links== Meeting of 13. In June 2003, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2133	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Dieter Böhmdorferwill be appointed by the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection Vice chancellor Mag. Herbert Main Representative. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2160	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2325	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question No 535/J tabled before the entry into the agenda by Dr Pilz, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning suspicion of suspension, gift acceptance, abuse of office. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2349	We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2367	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block period of 10 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed for today’s session day, so that the following speaking times may arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 175 minutes, Free 120 and Green 130 minutes. ==References====External links== The meeting also agreed that the time-limit for members of the government should be set in accordance with § 57 para. 8 GoG is not used. If the 20-minute speaking time is exceeded for each member of the government responsible for each department, or if the 10-minute speaking time is exceeded for each department, the excess speaking time shall be counted on the speaking time of the respective government group. The term of office of foreign government members or State secretaries shall, at any rate, be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (60 of Supplements): The Federal Finance Act for 2003 and Appendices (112 of the Supplements) (re-introduction of the German Federal Financial Act). Negotiations postponed on June 2003) 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (61 of Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2004 including investments (113 of the supplements) (resumption of those on 13 December 2004). Negotiations postponed on June 2003)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2416	I will resume the negotiations on the Federal Financial Laws 2003 and 2004. Agriculture, forestry, the environment and water management Chapter 60: Agriculture, forestry and water management Chapter 61: Environment new
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2447	First, the part of agriculture, forestry, the environment and the water industry is discussed. This subheading covers Chapter 60: Agriculture, forestry and water management, and 61: Environment new. Mrs Gabriele Binder has spoken. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 3 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2473	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture, rural areas – two areas that are inseparably linked. The existing structures have a lasting impact on the lives of the people who live, work and live there. However, the conditions for women are different in rural areas, and I believe that they have many similarities. On the one hand, there are the group of farmers who either lead a farm or assist with their partners. The proportion of female managers was still 40 percent in 2000. The activities carried out were very numerous, versatile and extensive. I am all the more sorry that the 2001 Green Report lacks the chapter "Women in Agriculture" and therefore no comparisons can be made. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The other group of women lives in rural areas, but is not assigned to farmers. The commons, but also the differences in living conditions, cannot and must not be turned under the carpet. What are the problems facing women in rural areas? – Traditional role models, inadequate childcare, difficult access to education and advice, lack of public transport, lack of jobs for women, and the feeling of isolation, exclusion and cut-off from life, just to mention a few examples. The erodement of rural areas, for example through the closure of police and gendarmerie posts and post offices, is like a blow and means simply and simply a deterioration for the people and especially for the women living there. Classical agriculture as well as rural regions live and benefit from financial support and support of a variety of kinds, as well as infrastructure, services, public institutions, but also economic structures must be worth the State. The withdrawal of the state from its responsibility would be fatal for agriculture. “Less state, more private” would mean the end of all grown structures and social cohesion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is distribution justice, a balanced balance between state support and private ownership, because it is about future-oriented prospects for rural regions and also about solidarity in rural areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2528	Mr Franz Grillitsch has now spoken. Speaking time: 8 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2547	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. – By the way, my first name is Fritz and not Franz! – Ladies and gentlemen! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Today we have given you a healthy food, an apple as a greeting from Austrian agriculture, to point out that we produce safe food in Austria with our rural structures and thus meet the requirements of consumers. We thus give consumers the certainty that who produces as where, which ultimately also means comprehensible for the consumer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In order for us to be able to guarantee this in the future, we need stable conditions, we need an agricultural policy with a bite, as well as the inscription on this apple. We thank God, Mr Federal Minister, in Austria for the next two years a stable foundation for what I am very grateful for, a stable foundation on which it is possible to prepare our businesses for future challenges, such as EU enlargement, to invest in the future and to initiate a positive development of businesses. The aim of targeted investment promotion is to strengthen innovation and entrepreneurship in farms. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in these days, it is important to know and have that, namely this stable foundation, because tomorrow the negotiations on the reform of the CAP will begin. And I also say here in the House, I am glad that a year ago the Austrian farmers' representation was clearly positioning what the CAP reform or the mid-term review, the mid-term review, was concerned, because the Commission’s 2002 proposals differ considerably from the 2003 proposals. And there would not have been this improvement if we had not also made a loud shout in Austria. If the proposals had been implemented in 2002, this would have been a fall into the heart of the rural structure. Today, there are improvements in modulation, in the so-called farm-size recession, which is also desired by the mandaters in many ways. Our dairy farmers were also guaranteed the continuation of the milk quota until the 2013/2014 milk year. Federal Minister! I therefore welcome this stable foundation here in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In the meetings of the last few days here in the House, I have noticed that some of them are trying to stir up and polarize envy complexes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] – Ladies and gentlemen here in the House, I ask you, too, Mr Kummerer. –: Let us take seriously the requirements that you, too, impose on the farmers and try to ensure that they can be fulfilled! Shores But please don't be jealous by saying: Now you have a 3-billion package! This is not €3 billion a year, but it is a package for the next four years! I would like to have said this in all clarity. That is why I ask you: Acknowledging our stable agricultural policy, a policy that we are setting up here in the House! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Comparing our agricultural policy with other EU countries, even in Europe at all, clearly shows that we are on the road. In this context, I refer only to the two pillars: direct payments and the so-called rural development column. In Austria, 60 percent of the funds are already used for rural development, i.e. for those programmes closest to social requirements, such as the environmental programme or compensation allowances for farms in disadvantaged areas. Only more than 40 percent of the funds go into direct payments, the so-called production premiums. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what the EU average looks like? – 90 percent direct payments and 10 percent for rural development, for the demands placed on farmers by society! – This positive development in our country must also be recognised! That you from the opposition parties don't always get sick! – A good agricultural policy is being made with us in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In Austria, for example, there is also the highest share of young farmers, which is undoubtedly also a positive signal: 16 percent of our farmers are under 35 years of age! The EU average is 8 per cent! Among the sole farmers, we also have a high proportion of women in Austria, namely, 30 percent, which is only 24 percent in the EU section. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, Austria has a leading role in organic farming: 9.7 percent; the EU average is almost 2%. Austria is, as it were, European champions as far as the environmental programme is concerned, in which our farmers participate according to the principle of voluntaryness: 70 percent of farmers with 90 percent of the area volunteer to participate in this environmental programme – and that is truly a European masterful achievement! I mean, to that end, we can only congratulate the farmers in Austria warmly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In view of all these challenges – CAP reform, WTO negotiations – we need stable framework conditions to enable the Austrian farms to be more professionalised or prepared for over-company cooperation and to implement Europe-wide authorisation of operating resources more quickly – in the interests of competitiveness in the context of EU enlargement. We need appropriate training and training opportunities for rural family businesses; all businesses are equipped with computer equipment. In rural areas in particular, we need to launch a new information technology offensive. Farmers need new markets to be able to operate as comprehensive entrepreneurs in rural areas. We need the further development of our machine rings as well as cooperation with industrial production, and we also need to open up new sources of income, but literally the biomass grows at the window, ladies and gentlemen! The whole thing, therefore, is, as I believe, a corresponding employment impulse for rural areas, in the very sense of creating work and at the same time protecting the environment. What we need, of course, is that administrative simplification is also being promoted in these areas. Ladies and gentlemen! Coming to the end: Consumers have clear ideas about what farmers in Austria have to do or offer. And I emphasize: We want to meet these expectations of consumers. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Hopefully the consumer's inside too!]] Of course also those of consumers; thank you, Mrs Glawischnig, for this note! Consumers are the farmers' partners – however, ladies and gentlemen, under two essential conditions: that food is not constantly offered as lock-up items, that farmers get a fair price for it, and that we here in the House ensure that rural families in rural areas find stable and long-term calculable conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2647	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Eva Glawischnig. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2669	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to draw your attention from agricultural policy to environmental policy, and our agricultural spokesman will then speak in detail. I would now like to address a subject which has at the moment taken a very dramatic development, and I would like to draw attention here, as it were, to a quartet of problems, to problems in which I have the impression that both the Federal Government and the Minister for the Environment have so far not recognized this drama and overlooked important changes. And they have made all of this happen without any activity – as would be in the sense of the Austrian population, namely to pursue an offensive anti-atomic policy. Especially at European level, very important decisions are being made; one of them is the European Constitution. After over two years of discussion, there is a first proposal here, and in particular with regard to the continuation of the EURATOM Treaty, we are in a very, very delicate situation – unfortunately, completely unnoticed by the Austrian Federal Government! There is still a “gaal period” – the first part of the proposal for the new Constitution has already been completed – as all the delicate points have been postponed to July. However, as far as EURATOM is concerned, we are faced with the worst case. There is a proposal from Giscard d’Estaing, which provides for the whole of the EURATOM Treaty – with all the provisions, including the major objective set out in the initial paragraphs, namely the creation of a powerful nuclear industry – to be integrated into the EU Constitution, which is to make technical adjustments exclusively to the new institutions, but without any substantive revision of this 50-year-old and completely anachronistic treaty. In the EU Convention, we have to do with the situation that, although individual members, individual groups, were very likely to have a discussion about it, Giscard d’Estaing completely ignored it, very authoritarianly. If there is no massive advance from Austria until the end of this discussion process in July, then you must also explain to the Austrian population that the European Constitution is always and forever committed to promoting nuclear energy. In this context, I would like to ask you, Minister for the Environment: What initiatives has Austria launched? What has Federal Chancellor Schüssel done about this, what have the Austrian representatives done in the EU Convention? What have you done personally, Mr. Environment Minister? So what is planned for the overall remaining time, for this “gaal period” in order to address this very serious problem at least in an approach? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To describe this drama only once again: Of course, we all want a European constitution, but I do not think that the Austrian people want a European constitution to continue with the billions of heavy-duty nuclear power plants. [[New condolences with the greens.]] The second problem in this quartet of problems: For months now, over us, like a damocles sword, the increase in EURATOM credit billions is another billion €, explicit for new nuclear power plants or for nuclear power plants that are not finished and as ruins, especially in Russia, stand around. There is a secret paper from the EU Commission, which is exactly what projects are involved; one of them is logically called “Kursk”, a power plant which is not finished and which is to be financed with this money, which is a Chernobyl type of reactor. – Austrian money is also included in these EURATOM credits. We are just ahead of the decision: ==References== A proposal at the COREPER ambassador level will be approved on June, which was tarnished as a compromise proposal, but which includes the problem of continuing construction of ruins, semi-finished nuclear power plants, with EU money. There is no security upgrade, but the construction of nuclear power stations, specifically of these six Russian reactors. Here too I ask you: What is the position of the Federal Government in this regard? – I think an immediate no would be appropriate, would be adequate. What I hear, however, is that it may be possible to get involved in this sham compromise and that, in some cases, Austrian money could continue to be spent on Russian reactors. The third problem, Mr Environment Minister, is that we have arrived at a problem that has also been forgotten by the liberals, namely Temelin. The Czech Republic – Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner is hiding behind his documents – has developed a new energy concept and we now have to do it. Whoever reads this is shocked. This energy concept of the Czech Minister of Energy, Minister of Industry, presents development scenarios for nuclear energy. You have to imagine this: It is about extending nuclear erosion, it is about new nuclear power plants, it is about new temelin blocks. And according to one of these scenarios, which are currently under review, even eight new reactor blocks are to be built. You have to imagine that! I believe that the efforts of the Austrian Federal Government have not been very successful in disposing of Temelin's first Czech Republic or, secondly, in a massive way against these expansion plans. It would be high time, Mr Environment Minister, that you would finally do what is contained in the Government Agreement, namely to conduct exit negotiations, to inform the Czech Republic about other sources of energy within the framework of energy partnerships, to enter into a new discussion with them, or else we would have an eight-fold, six-fold temelin at the border in the Czech Republic. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] It could even be that these new reactors in the Czech Republic will be financed in the future by Euratom's funds. The whole picture that is drawing here is very serious. The last problem I would like to address, which is now not a matter of fact, but a political problem, is that the Federal Government has clearly completely lost its commitment to these issues to this day. I do not know what Austria will do about this scenario at European level. I know nothing about what is being done in the Czech Republic. Nor is it known to me what you are going to do with regard to the Pak nuclear power plant, in which a very serious accident was and in which Hungary truly did not pursue an offensive information policy, but, on the contrary, did the Greenpeace activists there treat human rights. There's nothing known to me about how you're going to react to it. I hope that the scapegoat, which has already accumulated here, will not be continued by the Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Umweltminister, I would like you, in your speech, to not only talk about agriculture, but rather about attacking these serious things and putting the position of the Austrian Federal Government on the table. I wish I could and ask you to finally show more commitment to these very serious questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2781	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2799	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech – like last time in the state defense – I would like to use the moment here to say thank you, thank the responsible people in the ministry, to say thanks to the responsible people at the AMA, but also to say thank you to our farmers' representatives in the chambers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But I would also like to thank the farmers and farmers, who, I believe, often underestimated, do violent things. It is often said that SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises, are the backbone of the domestic economy. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to strengthen this today and here. I am convinced that small and medium-sized agriculture is the backbone of Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have over 200 000 farms, 90 000 of them run less than ten hectares. We have hundreds of thousands of jobs, directly and indirectly linked to agriculture, with the sectors in question. Over 3 million hectares of agricultural land are processed. Austria owns 4 million hectares of forest. We produce more than 7 billion schilling each year. I believe that this figure shows what is largely done. Great is done by family farms that work with commitment, with dedication, with joy, with diligence, with love and, I would say, with commitment to home, home and farm that manage their farms, regardless of whether the year is good or bad, and which are very often – this is a real problem in this area – also ready to work by the way so that their farms are preserved. If you know these farms, if you know how people think there, if you know what effort they have to put on their farms – this can be said literally, because whoever was on the road from you once in Tyrol, in Upper Carinthia or in Vorarlberg, who knows that these farms are often really hanging on the slopes, that it often goes down so steep that you think the farmers have a longer and shorter foot, so that they can stand at all – and if you are aware of the importance of the “in stock” areas, the tourism that is in front and downstream, then, I think, you will see these budget figures slightly differently. I think you will also cut off the evil tongues that claim that farmers are preferred here. I do not want to interpret this more clearly because I think that this is unfair, and the budget achieved is satisfactory for me as a farmer's representative. I well question – this is what I am putting here in the room – and I often question certain priorities and individual activities. One can and must certainly also adapt in detail, in detail, but generally the activities set with the budget seem to be comprehensible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Very often you also hear the death row argument: Over 50 percent of EU funds go to agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important to distinguish clearly between the EU budget and the national budget. It is true that almost half or more than half of the EU budget goes into agriculture, but it must also be said that the EU budget is mainly concerned with agriculture, research, administration and the like. All other important budget items are in the national budget. If you take the national budget, you see at once that it is not even 2% of GDP used there; used for vocational education and training, used for the promotion of disadvantaged areas, for environmental measures – emphasis on organic farming – for forestry measures – it is for care measures, whether for road construction – for research, for quality assurance, for transport development of farms and farms located in the wasteland, for structural measures and, above all, for biomass. Ladies and gentlemen! All these measures also bear fruit. We have about 10 percent share of organic farmers in Austria. This is certainly a value which must be highlighted positively, but whose increase – and I would like to say this here – must not depend on the budget figures but on the consumer. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It cannot be that we try to produce organic farmers if the need is not present. If there is a need, it is the task of the Ministry of Agriculture and the responsible agricultural policy to create the conditions for it. The rest is the task of consumers, is the task of customers in the shops, is the task of gastronomy and tourism, that is, it is with ourselves. In this respect, we need to set the framework conditions. We have tens of thousands of farmers who each year participate in training and training measures that have a need for knowledge that is not satisfied with the achievement of these training measures at all levels. We have huge investments on the courts, in the field of machines. Here the economy is really being strengthened. But we also have the future of biomass – which is a very important issue. Biomass, I believe, must be a central issue in agriculture over the next few years and decades. I would like to repeat here my appeal, which I have made many times: In the area of biomass, one should try to create framework conditions across all political borders, which will allow farmers to enter, to find a second, third stand, and thus not only to ensure their operation, but also to achieve that Austria becomes independent, so that we can also achieve something that is very rare, namely a win-win situation. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] A profit situation for the entrepreneur, for the farm, but also a profit situation for the environment is a matter that is very important to all of us, which is certainly an issue that is probably not yet appropriate in terms of its significance, but is also an issue that we ourselves need to raise more awareness in future. This biomass offers all these possibilities. There you can bring in innovation and research, but also agricultural work. You can create a base from which we all benefit. Of course there are also problems – no! The agriculture would be too easy to talk about! There are a lot of discussions about the distribution of funds, the sizes. Who gets how much? – There are discussions that lead to cover, towards minimum amounts for small businesses. One should discuss this, so that one should also work intensively in the committees in order to create more fairness. Of course, there is a discussion about bureaucracy, about effort. Of course, awarding and control are always criticized – especially by my group. In my capacity as Vice-President of the Chamber, I discuss almost daily with the farmers about the bureaucracy, and I believe that we have also taken first steps in the Government Convention to reduce this bureaucracy, to make it easier for the farmer to be controlled by another body every day, and to make it easier to do so. Of course, there is a problem that could be dealt with on its own for a day of filling: Decoupling, agricultural reform, mid-time review, enlargement. – All these are areas for which you could organise your own plenary session. Of course, we have problems with the federal uniform animal welfare law, because there are different worlds in common: on the one hand, a very, I say, animal protection-oriented group and on the other hand, a farming group. But over this ever-increasing pressure of society towards more quality, more requirements, more price we must have an open discussion. We must now ensure that the farmer, who is to fulfill all these things, also receives in the final effect a prize for it. I think we can also prove solutions, especially when we see what is happening in agriculture. I dare to take a look at Carinthia. There are activities such as Polandtafest, beef festival, world milk day, holidays at the farm. I think we are showing here that agriculture together with tourism, together with the population, is very well able to achieve something and to do something. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Finally, allow me a warning: Farmers must not become beneficiaries of alms in their own home country. [[Abg. Oillingers: How the pensioners!]] Farmers must not be stamped as a landscape caretaker or a natural gardener. Farmers, ladies and gentlemen, should not become a social policy gameball! This professional group, I believe, is just as important for Austria as the smoker, the doctor, the bus driver or any simple worker on the blast furnace!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2869	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Ulrike Sima. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2890	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to return to environmental policy. From my point of view, there are two very hot topics in the environment: The anti-atomic policy has already been referred to by my colleague, Mr Glavischnig, and the second area concerns the protection of consumers. In both areas, Mr Federal Minister, I am missing some satisfactory answers, especially in the budget. I want to start with climate protection. You have repeatedly announced that there will be additional €30 million in the budget estimate in 2004. Unfortunately, we did not find them in the budget estimate. We also discussed this in the Committee. They know that this increase is long overdue, that the Federal Government has already decided in 2000 a climate strategy for which these funds were provided, but they do not exist to date. The first scepticism has widened in my mind when you said in the Committee on Budgets that we should now find these €30 million: I'll do that in writing. We then received this in writing, and see what was in it? – Most of these 30 million are already existing funds, namely already existing environmental support. That means that there can be no mention of an additional 30 million in climate protection at all. That's just not right! [[Call the SPÖ: A scandal!]] A scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is actually all the more tragic than that these funds, as I have said, should not only be promised since 2000, but should actually be invested so that Austria can reach the Kyoto goal – a goal that we have now also committed ourselves to international law. The climate strategy you are preparing provides for the use of these funds. The financial commitment of € 30 million has been announced several times, you have promised it several times, and now they are not available. There are no additional 30 million, quite the contrary: All that you have said here in the field of climate protection proves to be a huge bubble of soap, which does not hold what you promised. I really regret this because I really believed your announcements that you will finally take money into your hands and invest here. We will certainly not achieve the Kyoto objective, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] A maximum of half, i.e. € 15 or € 14 million, can be granted as a new resource, which is now invested in climate protection. If you look at the budget for which these new resources are spent, you have to say that most of them, i.e. € 11 or € 12 million, go into the so-called “flexible mechanisms”. They know that we have been very skeptical of these flexible mechanisms from the very beginning, because we believe that domestic climate protection investments should be made, that they are more effective here, that they create jobs here, and that they can also be better monitored here. I am more skeptical of this whole emissions trading because I doubt its efficiency. That is why I find your statement on climate change more than disappointing, because only half of the funds actually promised for years will be used, and they will then be invested abroad. In my opinion, it is also disappointing – unfortunately, I can only take a short look at this – the previously non-existent anti-atomic policy. I also miss your initiative regarding the Euratom Treaty and, above all, Euratom. This issue is now much more burning because it is coming in the next few weeks. I'd like you to tell us: What's going on? Are you going to make Austria at the next vote? What is your strategy in increasing Euratom? Where are the allies? – I do not want Austria to agree to the increase in the credit framework by 1 or 2 billion or to allow it. I think this is really unacceptable with regard to our anti-atomic policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Minister! We have promised to measure you by your actions from the very beginning, but these have unfortunately not really convinced us so far – and I hope you will improve.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2948	The next speaker is Mr Erwin Hornek. Speaking time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2969	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Environmental policy has and has a very high priority in Austria and will have a much higher level in the future. The 10-year balance of the Environmental Promotion Act is quite positive. 4.1 billion support for environmental measures resulted in a total investment volume of € 12.3 billion. On the one hand, these investments have had a significant environmental impact and on the other hand a significant economic and employment effect. Austria can already point to a 86 percent connection to public wastewater treatment plants. A drinking water supply of 99 percent from groundwater and spring water represents a European peak. Ladies and gentlemen! The current key environmental challenge is: Realising the Kyoto objective, with the principle of maintaining that growth in transport is the biggest climate protection challenge. That the achievement of the Kyoto target, minus 13 percent of all relevant harmful gases by the year 2010, our Federal Government and above all our Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllein is central concern, is evident in a wealth of measures. In the course of a budget consultation, it is understandable that the main focus is on the financing of climate policy. For 2004, Mrs. Sima, €30 million, €60 million for 2005 and €90 million for 2006 – a solid basis, as I mean. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As one of the first measures, sulphur-poor diesel fuel will be available in Austria from 2004 onwards. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In order to further develop the eco-social market economy, the Federal Government has also committed itself to the principle of sustainability in tax policy. The tax reform significantly relieves the labour factor and, in return, burdens on the consumption of resources such as energy, non-renewable energy from environmental considerations to an acceptable extent. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Sustainability is the basic principle of Austrian environmental policy, eco-social market economy the way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The objective of the Austrian environmental policy at the federal level is to permanently position Austria in the leading field in terms of quality of life.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3031	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3051	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will take the opportunity, of course, to address the agricultural debate in the first part of my speech. Mr Grillitsch, we are in the middle of a paradigm change, it would be time for the Austrian Farmers' Association to recognize the signs of time and really perceive this paradigm change – a paradigm change that is based on a necessary reorientation of the European agricultural policy based on those principles laid down in the Treaties of the European Union in the Romans. [[Abg. Grill: Did you sleep this? Have you slept so far?]] At that time, in the 1960s, it was primarily about the expansion of production, the food supply was at the top of the agricultural needs, and today we are standing at a very different crossroads, Mr Grillitsch. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Where were you last year?]] And this crossroads means quality production of our food in the interests of our consumers, as well as to safeguard appropriate resources such as water, soil and healthy environment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second level on which this paradigm change occurs and manifests is the WTO negotiations. At the WTO level, the European Union has a hard fight on the one hand and a block of states led by the United States of America, on the other hand, with very different views on food production and agriculture. The European view assumes that food quality must be a central component of production methods in the future. This debate can be shown in a very concrete way in the field of hormone meat dispute, namely when the European Union stops imports of hormone meat, and also in another area – equally central and important – in the field of non-genocidal food. There is indeed a US complaint against the European Union that the genetic engineering moratorium in question should be terminated. Of course, we are acting very massively against this, and this is also the Austrian position, as we have decided in the Standing EU Subcommittee in a four-party proposal. The second point at which this new orientation of the European agricultural policy must be demonstrated is the forthcoming reform debate that has been going on for a year, with the positioning of the Austrian Farmers' Federation and the ÖVP being far from exemplary. It is flawed and has been marked by an uncertainty among farmers about the objectives that Commissioner Fischler has taken into account with this reform. [[Abg. Grill: Does your formula also “short”? Tell me openly!]] Mr Grillitsch, the overall reform is necessary from our point of view, the total reform is an hour's commandment, because the current agricultural policy simply means that no jobs in agriculture can be secured, but that structural change continues to move on in a massive way. The crucial point in this reform debate – this afternoon, Mr Federal Minister, you will be negotiating again in Luxembourg – is currently the so-called decoupling, which means that additional funds in the field of market regulation, premium payments in the field of market regulation will no longer be linked to production in the future, but will be paid to farmers in business-related terms. There's a big fight, but you can't forget the following: The aim of decoupling is to reduce the surplus production of the European Union in order to reduce the cost of export subsidies massively. That's the problem: Why do you want to promote businesses twice, on the one hand, production on the surface and on the other hand export to reduce the surplus on the world market? – This is nonsense and therefore a compelling part of this agricultural reform. Of course, we also now know the problem of disadvantaged areas on the basis of analyses, on the basis of many studies. Well, you've got to sharpen that very well. I expect, Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, that you will at last bring the second pillar into the debate, namely the possibility of providing the security of their production in the Alpine zones, farmers and farmers through increased support in the second pillar. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, the measure and the chance of additional funding for quality production is also very important. This is a proposal from Commissioner Fischler that investment promotions are also co-financed by the EU for additional standards on animal husbandry. We can only welcome this from the Greens' point of view. For example, in his compromise proposal of last week, he expressed his support for not increasing milk production quotas, at least in the first step. We can only assess this positively. But let's get back to the core of the thing. In what way is this existing agricultural reform still inadequate? – The work force relation of the promotions is currently not sufficiently taken into account in the compromise papers, the single market orientation of total agricultural production is not really sustainable and, above all, it is: There has been no adequate approach at all to massively develop a ‘weed programme’ in the framework of European feed production. Finally, the proposals on energy production with renewable raw materials are incomplete and insufficient. There are plenty of opportunities for you to put pressure on Mr Bundesminister and to make Austria a pioneer for a global ecologisation of European agriculture and not to preserve an old system in the same way as French large farmers, which does not guarantee a job in rural areas at all. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, Austria's pioneering role in the field of organic farming. They presented a bio-action plan a few weeks ago. In this you are talking about the need to provide additional funding for a bio-competence centre “Bio Austria”. I have not found a position on this in the entire draft budget. We Greens will therefore still make an appropriate amendment to this proposal today. As I said, This cut-off between future agricultural strategies, the production of bioenergy on the one hand and the EURATOM Treaty on the other is also not desirable. There should be no additional loans for old nuclear power plants, instead additional funds for renewable energy in Europe. This makes use of consumers, who secures healthy food, because agriculture would be one of the first to be affected in the event of interference in nuclear power plants. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3139	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. Madam Member, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3158	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! I turn to the subject of the environment again. In contrast to the statements made by previous speakers of the opposition, a number of studies confirm that Austria is at the top of the European states in terms of its good environmental situation. The government has achieved a lot in the environmental field, but it is necessary to constantly raise awareness of the environment and to implement sustainable measures in all sectors of society for a healthy environment. The fact that the government is going on an environmentally conscious path and is continuing it in the future shows the increased resources available for the environment in the 2003/2004 budget. If there were only €291 million under a SPÖ government in 1999, more than €511 million will be available for environmental matters in 2004 – an increase of over 75 percent! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! In view of these figures, you really can't argue that the government parties don't care about the environment anymore. The fact that no cent, no euro available for environmental measures, is too much is clear, because global rising temperatures, increasing weather extremes that are expressed in droughts and floods, melting glaciers and bleached coral reefs show a worrying climate change. The government takes these signs seriously, because climate change policy is a central issue. It is clear that great efforts are needed to reduce the target of reducing greenhouse gases by 13 percent compared to the 1990 baseline. The Kyoto Protocol must not be in jeopardy to remain just a paperwork! In this respect, the 2004 budget will provide €30 million for measures, and by 2006 a total of over €180 million will be foreseen. The current emissions figures of the Federal Environment Agency indicate that greenhouse gas emissions in waste management in Austria have been reduced. However, the large child of concern is the traffic in which emissions have increased dramatically since 1990. This is a real challenge for climate change policy! Positive effects are expected from measures to reduce CO2 emissions. I count projects such as “Auto-Free Tourism”, a comprehensive range of low-sulfur fuels and low taxation of desulphurised fuels as well as the truck tolls, starting from 1. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is, of course, necessary that there is a general rethinking, a general change of consciousness on this issue. A further focus in environmental policy must include measures relating to border nuclear power plants. Indeed, it does not matter to the liberals what is happening on this issue, especially as regards Temelín. And especially the recent announcement by the Czech Minister for Industry, who wants to expand the Temelín AKW, has led to a very great uncertainty, especially in the Upper Austria population. Federal Minister Pröll! Even if you are our coalition partner, a criticism seems necessary: My impression as an above Austrian Member is that, When it comes to Temelín, your ears are unfortunately locked. [[Congratulations on the liberals and the Greens.]] We are still waiting for the security report promised by the end of May. You yourself, Federal Minister, said at the last committee meeting that every nuclear power station is too much. I ask you therefore, and I ask you: Take seriously the fears of the Austrians, especially the Upper Austrian population! It is about safeguarding our country's existential interests.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3237	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll. You know, Minister of State: 20 minutes speaking time. The lamb shines after 18 minutes. If you talk longer, this will be deducted from the time of the ÖVP's speech. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3261	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to comment on some of your comments, but at the outset I would like to give a basic position, which all of us here in many discussions. Austria has already committed itself to an eco-social orientation in the field of agricultural policy years ago, and we have consistently worked to make Austria a model country in Europe in the field of the environment. Both of us have been excellently successful in recent years, and the budgets for the years 2003 and 2004 have also been designed under these signs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The key data are: €2.46 billion for agriculture and the environment in 2003 and €2.52 billion in 2004. This enables me to be able to carry out efficiently and purposefully all the tasks assigned to the sustainability department – the bows range from environment to water to agriculture and forestry – even in these two years. Ladies and gentlemen! In the environmental field, we are number one in Europe. We have the highest share of bioenergy, we are world champions in the garbage race and, Mrs Glavischnig, committed to anti-atomic policy. In the government programme, the Austrian Federal Government has defined its idea of a consistent European anti-atomic policy very detailed. One is trying in popular desire, we are doing at all levels in Europe and national anti-atomic policy. You can assume, as you have referred to the EURATOM Treaty, that we also clearly express our opinion in this area. We want to make changes in the objectives to invest only where nuclear power stations have improved safety with clear process data. Only then do we discuss an increase in EURATOM funds. Only if these objectives can be designed accordingly can we discuss the second part. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! You may have forgotten that on Friday last week I tried to anchor nuclear power in the Council of the European Union Environment Council on Liability Directive. Unfortunately, there was not even the support of your green friends in Germany. This too must be said quite clearly: We are sometimes alone with a few small Member States in the consistent anti-atomic policy. I'd be there sometimes. also wish to support your party friends from Germany. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to address Mrs Achleitner's comments because I have to correct them or tell her: I submitted the safety report on the Temelín AKW at the end of May, published on the homepage, to each club. We shall proceed very transparently, clearly and openly on this issue. The report would actually have to be in your club. This is just to correct you, because you said I would still hold the report back. I never did that, he was ready and the next day already readable for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen! A second priority in the field of environment is undoubtedly climate protection. We have available € 30 million more for activities in 2004 to stop climate change for the first time. Mrs Sima, I do not know why you did not find the €30 million in the budget, because they are actually budgeted, and we will be able to set a very important impetus for achieving the Kyoto target, reaching a minimum of 13 percent by 2008 and 2012. We will successfully continue our path in the field of climate policy beyond the 2004 budget with €60 million and plus €90 million in 2005 and 2006. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian agriculture is undoubtedly facing major international challenges. We are currently negotiating, first of all, the reform of the common agricultural policy at European level. Secondly, in September the world trade rounds – with a start in Cancun, Mexico – will start, which will undoubtedly affect both European and Austrian agriculture. Thirdly, with the enlargement of the European Union by 1. On the other hand, it is not possible for farmers to change their homes in the next year, especially as far as the markets are concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, during the budgetary negotiations, we have made every effort to establish national conditions in such a way that an economy on the eco-social path that we have already pursued in the agricultural family business is possible in the future. The 3-billion-€ package is not an additional money, as it is often presented, but rather the extension of a 40-billion-shilling package that has secured our way in the past and that will also efficiently stabilise the incomes of Austrian farmers in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have €436 million in 2003 on the federal side and €454 million on the national side in 2004. As in the past, we will use this very efficiently for mining compensation, for environmental measures, for forestry measures and for branch premiums for young farmers. In the latter area too, we must set an impulse in the future. I am negotiating a programme of my own in the field of CAP reform. That too is an important incentive. We need to promote our businesses, our young business owners and set a clear impetus in this direction. We will support the processing and marketing of our agricultural products. And I am going to put an absolute emphasis on investment promotion – that is to say, clearly and clearly – because I believe that the investment activity of our farmers, as a driving force for rural areas, while safeguarding jobs in the supranational and downstream areas, is of crucial importance. It is important, and the budget policy data for the years 2003 and 2004 will also allow for this programme. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to say: Environment and agriculture are a topic that has been brought to the attention and awareness of last year's flood disaster. With the Budgetary Angle data I have mentioned, we will be able to fully continue to budget in my house the “protection against natural hazards” business area. We can provide clear rules in the area of avalanche protection and flood protection from the disaster fund – as in the past and with additional impulses – in order to limit what nature sometimes imposes on us. This too has been impressively successful with this budget, and I believe that we are on the right path to the future as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3368	The next speaker is Mr Faul. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3386	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have said with regret, Federal Chancellor, that you have been given an inexhaustible, very acid apple, but I have seen how heartily you can handle acid apples. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel bites the apple demonstrationally and eats it with appetite]] I would have offered you a mature red apple, but you have unfortunately rejected it. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You will be able to find out again in a few moments what conditional reflections are, Mr Grossruck, because I will tell you a few real things, and you will be able to experience how the farmers' representatives from ÖVP and FPÖ Zeter and Mordio will cry out. These true findings do not come from me, but they come from the Court of Auditors' income report, which is very impressively the income situation of farmers, who are farmers in relation to the other population groups. Dear colleague Fritz Grillitsch, I turn to you: It should not be a question of provoking envy and complexes here, but it is about solidarity with all professional groups, but it has been missed by your side, although 70 percent of farmers in the ASVG-pension system are missing during pension negotiations. Finally, it was – and if you look back in history, you agree – yet Bruno Kreisky, who has provided the safety of farmers' pensions, I would have expected some support from you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] I'd like to tell you that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the income situation, you can see that the people working in the field of energy and water supply, in the construction sector, in the motor vehicle sector, in the public administration and ultimately also in the healthcare sector experience an annual increase of about 1 to 1.1 percent. If you keep up with this increase in income in the field of agriculture, you can see that it looks quite neat. In fact, the increase is as follows: in the forestry companies 10 percent, in the feed industry 13 percent, in the market fruit farms 12 percent, in the permanent crops 24 percent, and in the processing companies 28.9 percent! That's neat, please. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] If you look at the average income – this is the last valid report, Mr Grillitsch, there is no other and no newer one – you have to say: The average income of farmers is very much above the incomes of the host sector, before incomes in the field of public services and also before incomes in the commercial sector. Because the last time an income increase has been mounted in agriculture, I can tell you – and this should also interest the economic representatives in the ÖVP – that: The farmers are well ahead of the furniture manufacturers, they are in front of the retail trade, they are even in front of the hotel industry and in front of the innhouses, which are well below 7 000 € at the end of the income table. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] Even in the rental and lease sector – and if you, Mr Scheuch, cry so much, that doesn't change it – it is. The agricultural and forestry sector is at the forefront of 18 000 € annual income: in front of the inn, in front of the private room rental and in parallel with the apartment rental. In addition to this presentation of the income situation, it would certainly have been interesting – I do not have the time to do so – to show you the distribution justice of direct payments in absolute terms. You'd have wondered what's going on.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3498	The next speaker is Mrs Machne. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3517	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It draws like a red thread through the budget debate and reminds me of the councillor of Lienz: The opposition demands more and more money, in all areas, in all budget chapters, but at the same time is strictly opposed to savings measures and does not ask where the money should come from – unfortunately it is not multiplyable – and where it leads if you spend more and more than you take. This shows our debt mountain: € 7.5 billion only in interest per year is not a small thing – a legacy of SPÖ Federal Chancellor and SPÖ Finance Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] – I didn’t understand the call, but that doesn’t matter! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Is better anyway!]] If, nevertheless, more resources have been made available in this double budget in many areas, especially in the field of environmental protection, I believe that this is due to the prudent financial policy of our Federal Government and our Federal Chancellor, who is doing the right thing at the right time. Thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria is the number one in Europe in the field of environmental protection, as well as in other areas, and we can all be very proud of that. I think that has many reasons and causes. This is due to the commitment of the federal government, the countries and the communities in recent years, but also to the commitment of the population, the youth and, I do not want to hide it, also the greens, who have done a great deal of consciousness. I am thinking, above all, of the waste management sector, which at the time the Environment Minister Rauch-Kallat managed perfectly; the separation of waste is no longer a matter of course in Austria. In the areas of water and wastewater, a lot has been done in recent years, resulting in an excellent quality of water both in drinking water and in the rivers and lakes in Austria. The energy from biomass is almost a racer in Austria. The Steirs are really pioneers. Energy plants for the production of energy from biomass are currently being built throughout Austria. In this area, Austrian companies have been pioneering, which will certainly benefit them very much in the enlarged European Union, because environmental protection is a very important economic factor and also ensures many jobs. Waste water disposal in rural areas is very cost-intensive and has, of course, severely burdened the communities and, consequently, also the citizens financially over the last few years. Not least for these reasons, we have a difficult financial situation in the smaller communities, as you know, and I therefore ask the Federal Government to take this fact into account during the next financial compensatory negotiations and to increase the financial resources for small communities in this area. [[As a result of this, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the European Parliament.]] After Mr Pröll's success in achieving an increase in resources for environmental protection, I am very sure that in the next few years we will continue to have the number one in the field of environmental protection. Finally, I would like to thank our farmers, who do a lot in agriculture and thus maintain our beautiful landscape. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3577	Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Seven minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3596	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! I would now like to look beyond the Austrian edge of the plate, into the vast world, and I would like to talk about ‘WTO and agriculture’ in relation to Austria. Access to food is a universally recognised human right. To protect this right must have a higher value than the pursuit of commercial advantage and free trade. – This is a quote from the Balay Declaration of the Conference on Trade and Food Safety in the Philippines, February 1996. The current Green Report for 2001 states, on the main cause of hunger in the world, that the cause is unfair land distribution and export-oriented industrial agriculture. In the countries of the south, it is not important that self-sufficiency is maintained and expanded and that people are supplied with valuable food there. In the countries of the south huge areas are used for the production of cash crops. With the feed produced there, as Professor Alfred Haiger says, the “cow is made a sow. ” [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Wow!]] – This can be read in the documents of Professor Haiger of the University of Soil Culture. [[Abg. Wittauer: The President did not understand!]] Whether this violates the good practices when “the cow is made a sow ”? – Yes, I think that violates the good habits. But unfortunately this also happens in the agricultural farms in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have seen a 9 percent fall in agricultural holdings in Austria since accession to the EU. This is not a success statistics. The key to this is an unfair distribution practice in the promotions. In particular, the smaller farms, which are extremely important for the production of valuable food, have given up, not only in Austria but all over the world. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Agricultural liberalisation, which is currently taking place to a large extent, will also take an important place in the WTO negotiations in Cancun. Negotiations include essentially the WTO Agricultural Agreement, ‘Agreement on Agriculture’, consumer and health policy and the TRIPS Agreement governing patents. These negotiations aim to further liberalise agricultural markets. Already before these negotiations in Doha, farmers and environmental protection organisations were opposed to the inclusion of the sensitive area of agriculture in the WTO's free trade regime. A well-known speculator, George Soros, said last year in Vienna that capital markets tend to destroy themselves. There is no self-creating balance. It is therefore important that there are clear rules and authorities that control them. This is particularly important in the field of food, since it is not a matter of leaving the production and production of healthy food exclusively and only more large producers and no longer having access to it. The EU is not entirely involved in this massive liberalisation. It spends at least 7 percent of its agricultural budget on subsidies for exports so that these products, such as beef, milk powder or, in particular, sugar, can be exported cheaply to other countries. However, these low-cost exports are ruining local producers and local markets in other countries. The EU and the USA control half of world cereals exports. However, export prices are 46 percent and 34 percent below actual production prices. That is why we support the withdrawal of export support, as it cannot be our intention to continue to harm the countries of the south while we have overproduction here in the north. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to say a few words about the Alpine Convention. “Climate-Horror in the Alps” was recently read in the “Standard”. The budget is planned to spend €200 000 on the Alpine Convention. I ask you: What is to be financed by this? A study?- Oh, my God! – This cannot lead to a sustainable reduction of the impact of climate change on the mountains of Austria. In these sensitive regions, action is urgently needed to halt the impact of climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3667	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3688	Mr President. Mr. Chancellor! Minister! High house! It is rather strange that Mr Faul is constantly trying to divide the different professional groups – including the Committee – and is constantly attacking farmers in a subversive way. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Pui!]] I really have to say that here. Agriculture, in fact, exercises a great solidarity with each class of population and does great things in Austria. That is why I expect you, Mr Faul, to say this very clearly here at the speaker's desk. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would like to say to Mrs Rester-Hinterseer: Their Comparisons – Unfortunately, God Come They are not from agriculture – between Sau and Kuh are not allowed! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: That's not true!]] - I don't know, maybe she's breeding chickens, otherwise she'd say something else. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I remember very well when the Committee was talking about the mass animal husbandry of the hunters. I'd expect you to make yourself a little smarter in this matter. Then I would also like to listen to you and acknowledge your achievements. [[Abg. Sburny: This is prepotent! That's incredible!]] But I speak here today as an environmental speaker. I am aware that environmental protection is a major challenge for Austria in ecological structural change. Austria must pay for the 21st year. In the 19th century, it created the framework conditions for an intact environment. The reduction of pollutant emissions and the conservation of resources must be a priority. Environment affects all areas of our lives, including energy, industry, commerce, transport, agriculture, forest and water, tourism and leisure, resource management and consumer behaviour. A healthy environment remains the challenge for the future. It is important for every person, it is important for our agriculture, and it is important for the tourist location Austria. A challenge is also the achievement of Kyoto targets. For this purpose, €30 million will be available under the Climate Strategy in 2004, €60 million in 2005 and €90 million in 2006. The measures adopted between the Federal Government and the Länder focus on biomass and transport. This will lead to positive impulses for the environment. The dynamic development of transport is a major problem and is directly related to our climate. In this question – listen and learn S’ what! – there must be a change in awareness in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger]] The measures of the General Transport Plan of Minister for Infrastructure Gorbach and the related investments in the rails must also be implemented consistently. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Pirklhuber, you have already been here at the speaker's desk, but no one has listened to you because you have not said anything useful out here either. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: You must have this prepotence once!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] – honourable Member, listen to me! That's content, and I just want to share content. I do not want to address you on this question at all. Of course, it is a positive environmental tax reform and a truck crew that took place on 1 January. In January 2004 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative Measures, both in the construction of old buildings and in the construction of new buildings, to make better use of space heat, will be a cornerstone of this climate strategy. A positive example in this direction is also the planned biomass heating plant in the south of Vienna. The implementation of the Alpine Convention, which was also decided in Austria, must be implemented. The objectives we pursue together with our neighbours are a commitment and a binding contract under international law. In the sensitive high mountain regions, our miners have a sustainable environmental impact on the entire environmental system and contribute an essential role for society to ensure habitats. These farmers still need our support! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Don't read everything down! - It's true!]] We also need to find new transport strategies and measures that are sustainable, sustainable development in the sustainability of transport, which is a significant part of the environmental impact. Part of it is the shift to environmentally friendly transport, the expansion of public transport and the development of alternative vehicle and motor technology. [[Abg. Mandak: Then do it too!]] With the expiry of the transit contract, there must not be an increase in emissions from transit traffic. Therefore, the Alpine Convention must be implemented by all. Implementation of the IG air must be ensured. This will also enable us to implement measures at national level to protect our environment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Sustainable forest management, sustainable water management, environmentally oriented tourism and leisure industries, free zones, exit from nuclear power and much more are not only allowed to be keywords. [[Abg. Oillingers: You read them down, the keywords!]] [[Abg. Mandak: All empty words!]] Addressing the future environmental problems in Austria must remain an objective of this federal government. The role of consumers in their behaviour must also be changed. This also includes the necessary awareness already in kindergartens and schools. The question of nuclear policy in Europe is a difficult one, but I call myself an anti-atomic policy: Every nuclear power plant is too much. With a joint request from all the parties to the EURATOM Treaty, this will continue in the future – I hope so! – underlined. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The danger posed by nuclear power plants is high. This requires a change of awareness in Europe. No money for new power plants, support for the exit from nuclear policy, must be the goal of all four parties. [[Abg. Oils: Already read again!]] In addition, tax incentives for solar energy and biomass, the promotion of information and education campaigns, the creation of renewable energy jobs by the Federal Government, the promotion of energy saving measures, the use of efficient technologies and renewable energy, the gradual increase in the market share of liquid biofuels and the promotion of biofuels in transport are: tax incentives for solar energy and biomass. Ladies and gentlemen! I know how difficult it will be to implement it. But the environment concerns us all, it does not leave anyone indifferent. An intact, life-worthy Austria must be a wish of all of us!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3887	Mrs Rester-Hinterseer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, please start with the case to be corrected and face the right situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3911	Mr President. Mr Wittauer, in his speech, doubted that I had agricultural expertise. I am a mountain farmer from the Gasteinertal with a mother cow farm, which I manage with my husband in by-catch. Our farm has the size of an average Austrian farm. And the quote that “the cow is made a sauce” comes from emeritus professor Alfred Haiger of the University of Soil Culture in Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3955	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3973	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! One of the most important areas of the environmental budget is the financing and promotion of water supply and water disposal. Unfortunately, we have to find that this is once again the stepchild of the budget. Although there is a very high investment demand in the water sector, there was only one special tranche in 2000 by selling the claims of the Water Economic Fund. After that, the promised funding amount fell from 3.9 billion schilling to 3 billion schilling, almost 1 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! This is primarily due to the municipal budgets, because according to the new funding directives, the average rate of funding fell from 32 percent to 25 percent. In 2001 and 2002, the Fund was not funded by the financial compensation partners at all. The financial needs in these two years were covered by the sale of claims. This actually cleared the fund's assets. And where the trip is going is also quite clear: The water industry is to be financed privately in the future, and the combination of water supplies for the purposes of simple privatisation is also very transparent. Let me give you an example from Lower Austria. I recall the sale of the NÖSIWAG to the 49 percent privatized EVN. Ladies and gentlemen! If a private company needs to raise foreign capital in the future for the maintenance and expansion of infrastructure, because there is no longer any state aid, then the cost of water supply and water disposal will increase. This will make the citizens and the citizens very clear and clear. In the case of the other Member States, the rate of increase in the rate Or the infrastructure will not be built, and the quality of water supply will decrease. This affects the standard of living of the Austrians and the economy over the declining consumption. Therefore, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I call for the Water Economic Fund to be given the necessary resources again. In this context, I also call for the rate of support to be raised at least to the original level! We all, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, need clean, healthy water to live. And saving in the water industry is, as I think, a serious political mistake.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4033	The next speaker is Mr Keussnigg. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4052	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It usually does not bring much to deal with polemics, especially when they fall below a certain level. Mr Faul, I really have to correct you. They've taken out numbers here that just can't stay in the room like that. [[Abg. Faul: Talk to the President of the Court of Auditors!]] They try to play professional groups against each other, but then at least some minimum standards should be voted. I'll hold on to this. The average annual income of an employed person amounted to €20 700 in 2000. The average agricultural income is €14 000 – rounded off by a few euros. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Drummer: Gross or net?]] [[Abg. Faul is holding back the Court of Auditors' report.]] I can tell you: We have been plagued for many years by the fact that the difference between the income of agricultural workers and the self-employed is about 40 percent! It is also always questionable to argue with individual years. Please also look at the level of 1994! The single year doesn't matter at all. We are happy when we slowly reach the level of 1994 from before accession to the European Union! The previous statements are unfortunately a pitiful demagogy, which is not easy to overcome. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Pirklhuber referred to the paradigm change in the international agricultural policy, and I am not against it either. I am just saying that our paradigm change is going towards ensuring value added in rural areas and in agriculture, in the direction of securing incomes, in the direction of ensuring the vitality of rural farms. I regret the fact that agriculture in the public sector is much too narrow, especially as a food or food producer. But agriculture is much more, much more! Agriculture is also a major tourist provider today. There are regions where up to a fifth of tourism value added – with a corresponding number of guest beds – is developed in agriculture. Agriculture is a strong service leader in rural and local areas, and agriculture is highly interconnected with industry. Mr Hornek has already said: Agriculture is also – and growing more and more – an energy service provider. This is a huge challenge for the young generation of farmers, namely in training, in management and in the development of new markets. I am therefore very pleased that the Agricultural Budget, presented by Federal Minister Pröll for 2003 and 2004, supports and continues these rural development lines. I think we can make a stable phase of agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4117	The next speaker on a second speech is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4136	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Keussnigg rightly referred to the diversity of agriculture. The wide range of services it provides are not only exhausted in the production of food. But let us not forget the need to ensure job security in this area as well. And one of the main concerns of farmers is the corresponding prices for their products, Mr Keussnigg. This is the challenge, and I believe that if we want to be a pioneer, we must go even more into the quality offensive, offer consumers more quality and transparent quality stamps so that they can understand why they should pay a corresponding price. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Pröll, you have not lost a word in your comments on my questions about organic farming. You have not even mentioned organic farming, but I still think it is absolutely necessary that you, as Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, present a clear position in this regard, and also explain, Minister of the State, as you have said in the budget. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: You know them!]] Bio-agriculture is more than a method of production that produces food. ==References====External links== In the 19th century, ladies and gentlemen! And it is the great challenge to finally help organic farming on a global scale so that people in the so-called Third World can produce their food themselves in the future! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the end, organic farming also ensures species protection, soil protection and our natural foundations and resources. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll talks to an employee behind the government bank.]] – Mr Federal Minister, please listen to me for a moment. – You have written very concretely in your Bio Action Programme – and I quote from this 2003/2004 Action Plan: The Ministry of Agriculture will support the rapid development of the structures of a Biocompetence Centre and the concentration of forces within organic farming. - Quote. I therefore propose two amendments. They are as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be the means that would also be necessary to create a so-called biocompetence centre, “Bio-Austria”, Minister of State. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That you rejected a year ago!]] Mr. Molterer, I was never against it. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Oja! They were massively opposed!]] It was always about the right way to this strategy. I was not against it, but we have today a strategy in which the bio-organisations and umbrella organisations take a lead, and that is why we were talking about the Greens: that we are not going to get over it, but that the associations of organic farming, the roof organisations are being supported in their efforts, in this area, where we are pioneers, we are also developing really tangible future results. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Hahaha!]] So far to our requests. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity and also briefly address the area of settlement water management. And here I have to talk to Mr Heinzl... – Mr Molterer, I am willing to continue to discuss this with you afterwards, but I have to use my short speaking time to make this important point. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Pirklhuber on the path of improvement!]] The urban water industry is a sector in which some 130 billion schilling or 10 billion € have been invested since 1993 in municipal and operational wastewater treatment, in the sewerage et cetera. And Mr Heinzl meant that we had to increase the rate of support again. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a future strategy. We need new, offensive concepts for decentralized wastewater disposal in rural areas. We currently have a connection rate of about 86 percent in Austria, and it would be very useful, proper and necessary to finally advance the favourable cooperative solutions and the operation of plant clarification plants in the remote areas of Austria, which are much cheaper, and to convert the budget resources that are released, namely the environmental promotion in the field of renewable energy. Ladies and gentlemen! That would be forward-looking. But you did not do that, Mr. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4273	Member, stay. Please still at the speaker's desk and read the second amendment for the year 2004 – just the approaches, because they are different digits than for 2003. – You’re talking!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4289	Thank you, Mr President, for pointing this out. The second request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4337	The two amendments tabled by Members Pirklhuber, friends and friends, one on the 2003 budget, 112 on the supplements, and the other on the 2004 budget, 113 on the supplements, are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation and are also annexed to the Stenographical Protocol. The first request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request is: Amendment rapporteur Pirklhuber, friends and friends on the report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (61 and 61 d.B., Federal Finance Act for 2004 and Appendices) – 113 d.B. The National Council wants to decide: The following VA approach shall be amended as follows, and the amounts shall also be corrected accordingly: 1. VA approach 1/60146 of the report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (61 and 61 of the German Federal Finance Act for 2004 and Appendices) – 113 d.b. shall be amended as follows, including the sums to be corrected accordingly: VA-appendix 04 1/60146 Chapter 60 Land forestry and forestry Water management quality improvement and Production reversing Measures 22,838,000,– € 837,000,– 23,675,000 € Reasons: The implementation of the action programme for organic farming and the development of the Bio-Austria Bio-Austria Bio-competence Centre requires a significant increase in funding for bio-organisations and roof-organisations. A second step will be taken in 2004 to provide additional funding for the establishment and implementation of a uniform overall concept of ‘Bio-Austria’.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4451	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4470	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a wine-grower, though only in the secondary profession, I would like to put wine-growing at the heart of my speech. It is interesting that in the winter of the previous year, the four agricultural speakers of the parties represented here in the House had a very positive approach to the wine-growing chapter. It is undisputed that the Austrian wine is one of the world's peaks and, especially in recent years, has proved its quality again and again successfully. Uniquely, the reliable quality and the own character of our wines are praised in the international specialist world. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The former ÖVP agrarian Schwarzenberger believes that good wine is half the life, and he notes that in 2001 significantly more money for the wine was spent on the same consumption. This shows that consumers are buying more quality-consciously. In contrast to the previously very often purchased double-liter bottles, it has also been a significant increase in the sale of wine in Bouteilles, i.e. in the 0.75-liter bonds. The sales figures for the Bouteils increased from 31 to 37 percent. In the last legislative period, Mr Wenitsch, the Agriculture Spokesman of the FPÖ says that the Austrian wine is not too much harvested but only too little sold, and he is somewhat critical of the marketing and promotion measures of the ÖWM abroad, where he considers that the Austrian middle class wine is too little done and is mainly promoted top-winners. Mr Gradwelt sees positive in the wine. He believes that uncompromising quality, unmistakable product with strong regional character and, last but not least, unconditional safety for the enlightened consumers are the value of Austrian wine. Mr Pirklhuber believes that the Austrian winegrowers have, particularly in recent years, understood how to shape the culture and the tourism of whole regions with their wine culture. As you can see, a very positive topic. I hope that colleagues here in the house have also seen the quality leap of Austrian wine over the last ten to 15 years – hopefully not only statistically, but also sensory. Austria has been an almost pure white wine country for a long time, but has, following consumer wishes and also meaningful promotions, increased the percentage of red wine in recent years, which is essentially in the quality field. Of about 7.5 million hectares of agricultural land, only about 50,000 hectares are devoted to winemaking. However, it is precisely the wine that is an Austrian agricultural product, which is known worldwide. Although the level of awareness of Austrian wine is still internationally behind that of French and Italian wine, international prices and increasing advocacy are certain of Austrian wine, and this shows that we are on the right track here. An old wine-growing rule is still: The best wine is the sold, and the best promotion are satisfied consumers. – If the hail has also taken part of the harvest in Vienna this year, we hope to be able to deliver a good product to the customer this year too. A major problem for the agricultural sector, but of course also for wine-growing, has to be summarized in four points, and this has been true for centuries: “In the winter de Gfrier, in the spring de Blia, in the summer de Dia and in the autumn koa G’schia.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4540	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4558	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Grillitsch, if he is still there - apologise, I have not said so - and also Mr Wittauer: [[Abg. Grillisch: Here I am!]] It's not about igniting envy complexes. [[Abg. Grill: What?]] It is not about dividing up, it is about presenting facts, what Mr Faul has done. It is of no use, ladies and gentlemen, there are farms, and these are not few who have 7 000 to 8,000 euros of income – not in the month, but in the year! It would be interesting to hear how you will then explain how they can benefit or benefit from the profits that have not been collected at €7 000, €8 000 a year. There are companies that are subject to the market economy as a whole, the market regulates everything, and there are also cases where the use of non-indebted taxes on the market is regulated. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we should see the development of rural areas as a whole, as a national task. The European Union gives us scope for action in this regard. We believe that in Austria subsidies are mainly used for agriculture. The remaining part is, Mr Minister – I say quite consciously – embarrassingly small. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In our view, the allocation of funds – and we have been discussing it for years – is unfair. There are a few large farms that are very large in subsidies, and there are very many small farms that have to be found much less. The industry, the small and medium-sized enterprises, the infrastructure live by comforting words. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that the rural area needs agriculture, but it also needs more than agriculture, because a rural area where agriculture is isolated, without the environment, without the purchasing power of consumers, is condemned to failure. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Rethink the priorities! See also the rural area as a whole! Promote the businesses that need it, and finally introduce ceilings! Then you will also be able to expect our approval for future budgets.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4636	Mr Schweisgut. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Requested time: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4655	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! I would like to continue briefly on the issue of apple, which a Member has begun. The honourable Member in question has meant that he should take the sweeter red instead of the sour green. – I just hope he wasn’t overripe, lost and lazy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The apples still distribute the Eva!]] However, my subject should not be the apple for which I thank the donors of course. The apple is also a symbol for our agriculture, for it is really booming after the time. But I would like to focus more on agriculture and tourism, because as a tourist speaker this is a subject that I am very interested in, and of course there is also a great deal of value for agriculture in this area. Tourism is particularly important for the “unfavorable room” in the agricultural sector, since in the rural alpine area of the “Holiday at the farm” is a real source of by-catch income. Today, if there are about 15,000 tourism establishments for farm holidays, rural farms, this is already a fifth of all Austrian tourism companies. When we consider that every seventh bed, about 170 000 guest beds in total, is on farms, we can see on our own how important this area is for our farmers in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The value added from tourism, which goes directly to the farmers, is to be increased by approximately €450 million annually. In addition, there is still about double turnover, which remains ultimately in rural areas. This means, of course, that long-term security of the rural area is also urgently necessary through such niche products and through such, even unsubsidized ways. Therefore, further support from the tourism sector is also of great importance for the “Holiday on the farm” and for agritourism. About 20 000 jobs already exist directly in the farms in connection with the “Holiday at the farm”. But not only the workplace, but also, of course, the direct marketing of agricultural products, which can also be seen in connection with them – whether it be products such as schnapps or cheese, whether it be horse-keeping; “Holiday at the farm” is often associated with riding opportunities – this re-route profitability is of great importance to the farmers today and ensures the existence in the more impervious alpine areas of small and small rural structures. A certain decline in summer tourism, as it has been reported in recent years, for example due to the poor economic situation in Germany, will not, of course, be without an impact on the “Holiday at the farm”, which is primarily taking place in the summer months. Last year, which was generally a difficult year, there has been a slight decline in room rental. However, it was also a certain trend in the “Holiday at the farm” towards apartments, but this has already been recognized by farmers in good time. There is certainly a lack of equipment with modern techniques in the area of tourism. The website is to be mentioned. There are only about 2 800 rural owners who have their own homepage to show. As has been said, this is a relatively small number of around 15,000 farms. And only about 300 are bookable online. There will also have to be improvements in this area in the future. From the 2003 budget, direct funding of more than €300 000 will go to the “Holiday at the farm”. It is of course important to all of us, to better understand agriculture and to better understand the non-agricultural guests and tourists, but also to the locals, who are certainly aware of this. In any case, one thing is certain: Rural areas are safeguarded by agrotourism! Finally, I would like to thank the fact that it was possible, in particular for the rural landlords, who are, of course, also organized with private room tenants, to achieve that, as defined in the Budget Support Act, in future, no ORF fees for private-room tenants will no longer apply to commercial landlords who have previously been freed from them. This also means direct relief for the landlord in this budget. In this sense, agrotourism will continue to remain a source of income for farmers and at the same time well represented Austria outside. I thank the landlords for this and wish you a good summer season 2003.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4705	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. Requested time: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4724	Ladies and gentlemen! Because of the brilliance of the issue, I have to return to the question of Euratom and Austria's attitude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! We can discuss energy policy in Austria's long-term and broad-ranging, and we can think of promotion mechanisms – if we do not get rid of the threat posed by reactors at our borders, in Europe, if we do not get the unfair competitive situation for nuclear power, per nuclear power, in Europe, then all this will be a weak instrument in comparison. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the Convention for the Constitution of Europe, I have managed to achieve something that I am very proud of: All Austrians in the Convention supported the concern of EURATOM, which was brought in by me, by us! There were no differences between ÖVP and FPÖ and Greens and Social Democrats. We have jointly supported a request for an application, together with representatives of other countries who wanted to reform the EuratoM Treaty, in a very specific form. We must try together – here the government has to act, but, Minister, with your statements I was not satisfied with God – to get the support mechanisms for Euratom out of the table. We must provide the EuratoM Treaty with a so-called “sunset clause”, so we must achieve that this work, which is already totally obsolete today, finally expires after 50 years – that would be in 2007. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That was our central concern. We want to achieve the expiry of this agreement. What can our government do about this? The answer is relatively simple: At the future meeting of the Heads of Government in Thessaloniki, I expect our government representatives to do the most – and this is the interest of the Austrian people they have to represent there! – that they are committed to the expiry of the EuratoM Treaty, that our Federal Chancellor puts his political weight in the scales to achieve this. That is indispensable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, the governments of the other European states are in dire opposition. Unfortunately, there are still those who believe that one could spread the great lie that nuclear energy is suitable for climate action. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is scientifically so incredible what is being said, and this is so far beyond Europe's energy future that our government representatives at European level are urgently called upon to do everything to finally disprove this nonsense! But it really needs more than two sentences in your statement, Mr Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We did in the Convention what we could do to achieve a reform, a stop, an expiry of the EuratoM Treaty. Now the ball is with our government representatives, at last also dedicated to this matter and to demand clear and clear expiry of the EuratoM Treaty. Otherwise – and with that I come to a budget chapter that is rather sad to me – the leaner climate protection efforts of Austria will not even be able to be a drop on the hot stone. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the budget, if you read it – and without this opinion I do not want to end my budget speech on the environmental issue – it is a very sad one, how little Austrian follow-up shows in the implementation of climate change measures. If the Minister of Transport – and we have to deal with this – is proud to create many new motorway kilometres, if at the same time there is not even a drop on the hot stone for climate protection measures – compare these 30 million to what is spent on the total asphalting of Austria, Minister, then you will see the relationships that this is about here! – and if, at the same time, there were so much economic promotion in the area of thermal insulation, I would have expected that a government that is really interested in climate protection would also be clearly committed to achieving the Kyoto target and that this money, which is now to be depleted, would invest in transport, for fair mobility, and in thermal building renovation, since it will secure four times as many jobs. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Cheers: 30 million!]] But you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, obviously have to cover first. All of Europe is looking at our alpine architects, which services they provide in thermal construction. But you ignore it, ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to do this!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4788	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. Speaking time: 3 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4807	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Dear Mrs Lichtenberger, I think your sadness is not in place, it is not necessary. Nor do I represent the position of Mr Faul, who meant that green is immature, but I think that is what Mrs Machne said: The Greens have contributed a lot to raising awareness in this country and also to the fact that Austria has become the environmental country number one in Europe. You have to hold that very clearly once again. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Walch.]] I believe that we are a pioneer in Europe in a particularly innovative and attractive field of policy. I would like to draw up two aspects: The first aspect is renewable energy. The EU Directive on the promotion of electricity generation from renewable energy sources in the internal electricity market has derived the Eco electricity law. This eco electricity law – and this must be said after a few months – has triggered a real boom in this area and has become a real success story in Austria, a further success story in the field of environmental policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Compared to the target of 4 percent ecostrom share – which is about 600 megawatts – the forecasts have been strongly revised upwards. In its forecast of 1,700 megawatts of green electricity, which can be generated by this law, was discussed at the press conference of the regulator. I believe that Austria again has a pioneering role in Europe. I would also like to sum up: The eco-social market economy – which I am deeply convinced of – is an Austrian principle of living, a profoundly Austrian field of policy and a field of competence within the European Union. In the sustainable environment and agricultural policy, ladies and gentlemen, not Austria has to focus on Europe, but Europe on Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4855	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. The voluntary speaking time is known. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4873	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this budget for the years 2003 and 2004, almost all areas are deleted, retained, taken and saved, Ladies and gentlemen! I am thinking of the non-social pension reform, which last week was whipped through by the government parties with all its powers. I am also thinking of the non-social restraint that is now really introducing the two-class medicine in the future. You will have to take responsibility for this, ladies and gentlemen of the Government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I am also thinking of the non-social increase in electricity, gas and petrol – and you even realized that you will be taxing coal in the future. That's really absurd! [[Abg. Grill: What will we tax?]] The more surprising it is, ladies and gentlemen, how the agricultural budget is for the next two years: In this budget alone, expenditure is known to rise by €40 million – while, among other things, it has been greatly reduced in the field of education. We know that a lot of lessons are being deleted and lost throughout the middle school area. While, for example, there are far too few resources available for research and development, the agricultural sector alone may increase its expenditure by €40 million! I am not saying this to be a source of envy, ladies and gentlemen, but it is simply a disaster, because this money is ultimately being distributed again, according to the key to which the support in the agricultural sector is now being passed on unsocially. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also saying this because 80 per cent of the grants are distributed to only 20 per cent of the farms. There is a good presentation in the Green Report which shows this really unsocial promotion, as it is practiced, once again. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also say this because, as social democrats, we have always advocated a different model of support, because your system is wrong, it is unfair, and - I say it quite openly - it is actually immoral, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] In conclusion: I was surprised that a few weeks ago, in the ORF, two types of farmers were confronted in the “Report” programme: on the one hand, a large landowner, on the other hand, a small farmer with little support. It was interesting to note, Mr. Federal Minister, that you then became very silent in the interview. You didn't know much about it, and President Schwarzböck has also become a bit of a "smear city". But I have been addressed after this mission by a lot of people, and I note, ladies and gentlemen: Acceptance within the population is declining. I say this quite consciously: Acceptance is falling! [[Abg. Grill:... ask why! Because the union is polarizing! Take yourself to the nose, why acceptance is falling!]] This is not so much about the resources that are being made available, but about the way in which they are distributed, because they are unfair! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As last sentence, Minister of State, another comment on EU agricultural reform: I don't understand why you don't want to carry the proposed decoupling. They really put themselves on the side of the big farmers, and the small farmers did not deserve it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4959	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4978	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A central task of the Federal Government's budgetary policy is to create the conditions for the growth of the Austrian economy. This double budget shall be taken into account. An important part of this is the agricultural and environmental budget. Our farmers are the nourishers of the population, they maintain our beautiful land through the management, maintain our cultural landscape and are very active in the production of energy and diverse products for the people in our country. Our farmers do great things. In order to secure farm income, we need to promote an environmentally sound, site-oriented and sustainable management method. It is important that sufficient funds are made available to our farmers from this area. For this year, €2.46 billion and €2.52 billion for 2004 are estimated in the budget. Our farmers have many problems to fight for their existence. Prices for pigs, milk and cereals are currently in the cellar. I am opposed to a further reduction in this area, as planned by the EU agricultural reform. I also disagree with your remarks, Mr Faul, at all. They draw a comparative figure from 2000/2001 when the income for farmers is higher, while they are now back in the basement. In the case of agricultural income, it is not possible to compare one year to another, but to use larger periods of time in order to be able to make a fair comparison. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The reasons for the present difficulties are essentially in the strong euro and, of course, in the international economic situation. The fight on the market is getting harder and harder, and it is therefore important that we fight against or help to secure income by means of direct payments. I would like to say here that our agriculture minister Josef Pröll has negotiated very well and has secured very important points in the agricultural budget. I would particularly like to point out that we have put new emphasis on renewable energy: Around €8 billion are available this year in addition to the promotion of biomass plants. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: 8 million! – He said “8 billion”!]] This money will be invested in the environment, and that means a lot of jobs for people in our country. I would also like to point out that Upper Austria in this area, in the production of renewable energy, is leading in the field of biomass near-heating plants. 32 percent of the existing plants in Austria are located in Upper Austria. We are also well on the go in the field of biogas: We have a total of 30 biogas plants, and six new biogas plants were opened last year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With regard to these renewable energies, Austria, I believe, is really a show country in Europe. The Schüssel government shows that it is focusing on the future. In this sense, we are happy to give this agricultural budget our approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5020	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5039	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! I too would like to say a thank you at this point to all farmers, because they are really those who keep our cultural landscape so beautiful. [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]] Thank you so much! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and MEPs Bucher and Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber and Bravo Ruf at the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, I have to criticise a little, because I think the government parties are happy to make use of themselves to be the only and true representatives of farmers' and farmers' representatives. The Minister for Agriculture has also welcomed the 3-billion support package for agriculture. If you do not mind, Minister of State, for you are also responsible for this area. What I cannot understand, however, is the unfair distribution of funding. Is it really fair to grant, ladies and gentlemen, subsidies according to the size of the farms, if for a long time it is known that many small and medium-sized farms from their proceeds cannot compete with their livelihoods? This certainly also proves the high farm mortality, but also the high number of auxiliary farmers. Is it really useful to watch farmers die without taking countermeasures? And I think that is not only due to the fact that annual income is bad for a year, Mr. Freund, but also to the fact that the conditions for smaller agriculture are very difficult. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Is it really fair for 45 percent of farms to receive almost 80 percent of agricultural subsidies? - I don't think that's fair. We Social Democrats stand for another, a fairer and more sensible support policy. It is not intended to promote land ownership, but to promote work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Bravo-Ruf des Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Special environmental benefits need to be specifically promoted, and the competitive disadvantages for miners and also for smaller farmers must be specifically compensated for in order to counter farm mortality and also to maintain the growing structures, for if small farmers are no longer able to survive, their conservation is simply not guaranteed. I only spoke last weekend to a farmer who said that if she had known how agriculture developed, she would have never given up her job as a teacher. – This should also encourage reflection. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the rural area is much more than just agriculture: The rural area is a habitat for many Austrians, including many people who are not farmers. The rural area is close to recreation area for many large cities, and it offers vacationers relaxation and peace. I think that, for these reasons, the rural area is particularly protected and also particularly eligible for funding. Therefore, regional development needs to be seen more widely than just in terms of distribution of funding for agriculture. Effective regional development is directly linked to the further development of infrastructure. It is therefore necessary to expand and maintain transport and freight routes. It is also necessary to promote public transport – and not just as it has happened, that more and more public transport is being stopped, and then it really comes so far that people from smaller regions do not come out of their villages for months; that is real fact! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. ==References====External links== That's where you can learn today!]] I still have some things to say, but I've seen that time is already pressing. Finally, I would just like to say: Agricultural policy must simply be to promote regional development and ensure a fair support policy for our farmers in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5160	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5178	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today, we are discussing the Federal budgets for the years 2003 and 2004 on the field of agriculture and the environment in terms of sustainability, prevention and ecologicalisation. I did not fully understand Mr Wimmer, who has confused today's debate with a debate on education and research and has criticised with regard to agriculture that their budgets would be too high. I can tell you, Mr Wimmer: Agriculture has a comprehensive budget, and this also concerns civil and civil protection, it concerns the cultivation of wildlife and avalanche and the protection of water. And that is why the budget and expenditure on the environment and agriculture are justified: because they serve not only agriculture and help, but all the citizens! Everyone wants protection and support in rural areas! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Gradwell: But exactly in these areas are saved! How do you explain that to those affected?]] Well, we have also tried intensively in agriculture in recent years to secure our incomes and to look for new income opportunities. And so we need to think intensively about and think on all areas in order to achieve success. The 2003 and 2004 budgets for the environment make important changes for the future. It is about continuing the Austrian path in the field of environmental protection and also in the field of quality of life, because environmental protection is the basis for quality of life. There are two key priorities in the environmental budget: on the one hand, the greening of the tax system and on the other hand, significantly more resources for climate protection. All in all, it is a question of us continuing ecological development in a sustainable way and introducing it more strongly. In the budget accompanying law adopted last week, the shift in tax policy towards ecologicalisation was started: There will be 1st. In January 2004, incomes, additional labour costs, thus massively offset labour costs. There will, of course, be an increase in the tax on mineral oil and an additional tax on sulphurous fuels. The implementation of the Kyoto target will also be important in the future. This is an important challenge. We need to catch up on this, because we have to set up activities. Some are talking about climate protection – we are acting! The 2003 and 2004 budgets are designed for environmental protection: New developments will be launched, domestic resources will be increased, and overall environmental quality will be strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5221	Mr Schopf. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5239	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear youth at the gallery, especially dear VOEST teachers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the major environmental issue of Temelin, I have to say today, unfortunately, that there are no successful initiatives from the Federal Government, even from the Ministry of Nuclear Energy, in order to achieve a Europe-wide exit from nuclear energy. Unfortunately, there is nothing going on in the negotiations with the Czech Republic on the Temelin nuclear power plant. The most recent study by the University of Soil Culture in Vienna shows very clearly that even in the event of a medium-sized nuclear accident, large parts of Austria's nuclear power plant can be contaminated radioactively. A major incident in Temelin, for example, could further make the settlement necessary parts of Lower Austria and Upper Austria. In view of such dramatic and also real threat scenarios, the Federal Government does not make a decisive decision, although the security of the Austrian population is indeed seriously threatened. At the same time – and I recall the debate over the last few days – around twenty billion Schilling fighters are purchased, which in an emergency cannot benefit us the least. In this context alone, perhaps it is best to show how irresponsibly this Austrian government is dealing with the security of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References== In May 2002, already more than 13 months ago, Federal Chancellor Schüssel promised the rapid launch of bilateral decommissioning negotiations with the new Czech Government at the last Temelin summit of the Federal Government with Upper Austria, the convocation of an international Temelin exit conference and the preparation and presentation of a concrete Austrian Temelin exit scenario and offer. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, all these projects and promises have not been fulfilled to this day. Therefore, two specific questions to you: When to Remember Are you fulfilling these promises? What will the exit offer from the Austrian Federal Government look like? – Give Finally, you have a clear answer to these questions! 50 pans in the Temelin nuclear power plant speak a clear language and shout for solutions. I'm a member of the Mühlviertel constituency. The mill fourrs are really scared. Mr Minister, I ask you to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5300	The next speaker is Mr Schultes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5318	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, a correct approach to sugar and Mrs Rester-Hinterseer, which is unfortunately not present. – Maybe someone can report this to her group. – The colleague said that the EU is destroying the world sugar market by its exports of sugar. – This is a fairy tale and not at all true! The European sugar industry has kept its level of production for 20 years, only adapted to consumption. Unfortunately, however, Brazil has increased its sugar production by just the amount produced in Europe as a whole, bringing this quantity to the world market by force and pushing many developing countries out of the sugar market. There are hardly any countries that can produce profitable. The only developing countries where the sugar industry is still working are those who have contracts with Europe and our sugar market regulations. If you support the European sugar market system, you will support these developing countries! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Agriculture is a European matter which takes place nationally in the Member States. That is, we have a fixed framework within which we can put in place our measures. The last reforms brought us world market prices, of which no one can live here and elsewhere. In recent years, therefore, the US has greatly increased its agricultural support. That we can still produce high-quality foods in Europe ensures compensation payments. The cheap food they all liked, but I do not hear any agreement on the issue of production-related compensatory payments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber]] I'm asking you how this is going! Sustainable production methods at our costs are not possible at these world market prices. That is why the compensatory payments are linked to production and, of course, where production is higher, the need for these compensatory payments is correspondingly greater. This applies to conventional production as well as to organic farming, which, however, does not only need higher prices but also significantly higher compensation payments. These compensatory payments are now to be converted into a court premium. Strong forces in Europe want to decouple the compensatory payments from production and thus convert them from a compensatory payment to a subsidy. For many, the fact that the money is to flow without performance is a great temptation. There are discussions among young farmers with questions and statements such as: Can it be long-lasting? We want to earn our money honestly! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: What is better with the current payments? There's nothing better!]] We don't want any grants! We do not want any subsidies to be paid! Today's speeches have shown that farmers know what they are talking about. The envyers have already demonstrated clearly what it would be like to say and how long such subsidies would really last. Especially those farmers who have income would be accused of an additional income aid very quickly, especially those who would quickly become victims of criticism. Federal Minister Pröll submits a budget that will continue to ensure that the various benefits of farmers can be provided. It's about fresh, honest products, it's about our cultural landscape, the basis of tourism, it's about future energy supply – about heat from the forest, about fuel for the car from the field – it's about many flexible services to be provided to the general public all year round. Ladies and gentlemen! But it is primarily about your quality of life, about your food, about your life energy produced by the farmers and which are successfully guaranteed by Federal Minister Pröll as Minister of Life in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5376	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5394	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In 1980 the share of the same driven motor vehicles in our country was 3.2 percent, and currently it is about 75 percent. As has already been said: In view of these figures of the finance ministers sometime the idea of taxing diesel was more than close. That is why, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, I have already referred to the Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the ecological significance of this higher taxation. Although he has tried to explain to me very well how ecologically meaningful this measure is, I have not been able to believe it properly. And as I could read, I'm not alone with that – I'm allowed from the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” of Saturday, 14. Cite June. In this report, a representative of the ÖAMTC, who, I believe, is not, indisputably, one of the party members of the Social Democrats, is therefore unthinkable: “To raise the diesel tax does not help our environment.” [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, this increase – and this confirmed my presumption – only helps the budget. It is and remains a pure money acquisition action for the budget! Mr Federal Minister, what is particularly disturbing to me is the splitting of these two tax rates: For sulphur-depleted diesel – it will probably never become complete – less tax is required than for diesel in the previous composition. In my question to you in the Committee on Budgets, I also doubted whether it would be possible to offer the sulphurier diesel throughout Austria from January 2004 onwards. You told me it was going to work, and to make it work, you just thought about this split. In the meantime, experts also tell me from the area around the OMV that it will hardly be possible to implement this measure across the board, because the approval procedures alone are too long. It is thus caused by the condition that those who do not have access to this sulphuric diesel, which cannot buy, are punished for not being offered anywhere. All in all, this remains a measure that is purely budgetary. It will in no way serve our environment – to read at the ÖAMTC!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5448	The last words had already been spoken in the final analysis, but will still be included in the Minutes. Mr Ing. Winkler is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5470	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! I can use my short speaking time to talk today, perhaps for the first time in Parliament, about a certain social policy approach in the agricultural budget, namely the loyalty premiums of agricultural and forestry workers, and especially in the production of raw materials. It is a very small approach to the budget, but the Members concerned always appreciate it very much, and it is a recognition and thanks for their often very difficult, perhaps unthankful and not always well paid work. This service sector also contributes to the preservation of our special, beautiful landscape, the environment and healthy food. It is therefore worth mentioning this effort, and I am pleased to say thank you today, perhaps for the first time in Parliament, for this budget approach. It is not obvious that there are also approaches for employees in the agricultural budget. These funds are the only payments made by the Federal Government to agricultural and forestry workers in a professional way; there is no means in this area for continuing vocational training or otherwise. These loyalty premiums amounting to a total of €72 000 represent an appreciation of our colleagues in the production of original products, and it is really worth continuing or ensuring them. I should like to take the opportunity today to express my warmest thanks for these resources and to join the request for this appreciation to be extended to our colleagues in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5503	Mrs Schönpass. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5521	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! A few trade chains decide on the future of a quality-oriented and sustainable agriculture, that is to say, if the European agricultural model is to prove its worth. If farmers fail to secure agricultural income through market revenues, public payments to farmers will become even more important. The fact is: The trade chains increasingly determine what the rural families deliver for their products on the market. In order to ensure that small-scale agriculture, which is particularly important to us, can continue to exist in the future, the conversion of the support system must be a priority, i.e.: Decoupling agricultural support from pure production, labour use must be taken into account, agricultural and green areas must be equally high. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The whole system needs to be debureaucratised. The farmers' social security institution is highly indebted, and no social democrat was involved in the situation of this debt, ladies and gentlemen. The reason for the debt is the unfair contribution system that greatly favours large farmers, while the small farmers are burdened with a fee. Why is the Austrian agricultural policy dominated by the Federal Government so far distanced from the EU Commission's proposals for reform? I believe that this can only be because the Farmers' Federation is making agricultural policy for large farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! Family farms in particular create women's jobs. Farms provide care and close-to-natural management. But not only farmers receive rural areas, but also the many industrial and small-scale farms prevent rural flight. In addition, it would be necessary to redirect funds into rural development, because – and I am sure you will give me all the right – rural areas concern us all, with rural development including public institutions such as schools, transport, childcare facilities and so on. However, the current government is in favour of lagging out rural areas instead of supporting them accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5570	I call Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5588	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, listeners! Very briefly to my previous speaker: I have a smaller farm in a very steep location at home, a mining farm, and I can tell you the following, Mrs Schönpass: If there had not been the strong use of the peasantry in recent years and decades, we would have left our farm for a long time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] In regional policy, too, there has been a great deal of progress in regional development in recent years, but the real mistakes occurred decades ago when the major centralization took place. I would like to turn to another subject. Since this week is the week of the forest, I should like to stress briefly the importance of forestry and woodland. A recent survey states: 90 percent of Austrians like to go to the forest, 50 percent do this at least once a year and 25 percent regularly go into the forest. But only 4 percent of the population live on the forest and wood, which are still about 300,000 people. About 2% of the population belong to This is the case in some 170 000 forest owners. And only 0.1 per cent work as forest workers in the forest – and I come to speak on the comments of Mr Winkler – these are about 8,000 forest workers that we must pay particular attention to here. That means: Everyone loves the forest, but only relatively few care about it. Just because this week is the annual week of the forest, I would like to highlight its importance. As a Forstmann and Bauer, I feel called upon to bring a little more light into the dark forest as part of the budget debate. 47 percent of the area of Austria is covered with forest, in Carinthia and in Styria it is even 60 percent: This totals around 4 million hectares of forest in Austria. Although this is only 0.1 percent or 1 permill of the world's forest area, with 14 million solid meters of impact, Austria produces 10 million cubic meters of cutting wood, of which 6 million cubic meters of cutting wood go to export. This makes Austria one of the world's largest wood exporters. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Overall, the forestry and wood industry produces an export surplus of €2.5 billion, making it the second largest foreign exchange bringer after tourism; this is also a great success! Only sustainable and ecological management ensures the diverse performance of the forest. And without economics nothing goes, because a forest that is not or is not poorly managed gradually loses some of its diverse functions. Ladies and gentlemen! We therefore need a lot of understanding on the part of the population for the management of our forest. In the budget, some €13 million is planned for 2003, but this accounts for only half a percent of the agricultural budget. It is used for forestry solutions, high-level forestry and so on, that has already been mentioned by a previous speaker. But despite this small share of the budget, the performance, I think, is really excellent. Thanks be to the many forest owners, the woodworkers and wood processors who have achieved these great achievements and secured international competitiveness so strongly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Nevertheless, there is also a lot to do in the future. The forestry and wood industry is an important employer in rural areas. In this respect, I can call on our largest forest and forest owner, the Austrian Federal Forest, to: They must continue to perform this model function and must not withdraw from rural areas with their businesses and departments, especially with their staff. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ and advocacy of the Abg. Winkler.]] A very important point is the forced use of the raw material wood as an energy supplier, because the forest and wood industry is also active environmental protection. It is important to ensure the competitiveness of our Austrian saw and wood industry, as the falling prices of wood do not make competition easy. We must therefore adapt the framework conditions. It is very important to keep fuelling the use of wood and wood products. Although wood consumption has risen from 0.3 to 0.6 cubic metres per head in the last ten years, that is still too little. In other words, we need to plan more money for this in the future, because the green gold of Austria simply needs to be better marketed. I should like to thank the Federal Minister for the fact that he is living in the context of the forest dialogue he is living in. Called for a National Forest Programme. All these issues are to be addressed very clearly. Ladies and gentlemen! Sustainability in forestry should also apply to policies in general. We just have to go to a sustainability state! Voices You are therefore committed to this sustainability budget! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5694	The next speaker is Mr Steier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5713	Thank you very much, Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! I have already criticised in a speech last week that the financing power of the municipalities is hard to bear through losses due to tax and tax reductions. I can only repeat this criticism with regard to the environment of the 2003 and 2004 budgets. As a result, I would like to point this out to a number of points. Example one: Water management. It is undisputed that there is a high level of funding in the water industry. For reasons of savings, there was no disincentive to the Water Economic Fund in 2001 and 2002. The increased financing requirement of the Fund was covered by the sale of claims. The last special tranche for the Water Economic Fund was in 2000. At the same time, the Federal Government has also worsened the conditions of support for the municipalities. The increased eligible value has fallen; due to the new guidelines, mainly to the charges of the municipal budgets. In order to maintain the volume of funding and meet the requirements of the 2012 municipal waste water directive, a higher disbursement of the Water Economic Fund is therefore essential or urgent in the context of the forthcoming financial compensation negotiations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Example two: Amendment of the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. The aim of this Alsag novel will also be to eliminate waste disposal contributions in the future in the event of waste incineration. This heavy-duty input tax on waste-incinerators has, in order to formulate it neutrally, caused no inconspicuous amazement. Ladies and gentlemen! The federal government has so far preferred waste incineration as the most useful measure for reducing waste to be disposed of. Since the Deposit Regulation is applicable from 1 January 1990. In January 2004, pre-treatment of waste was planned, so far the incentive to invest in the planning and establishment of thermal waste treatment plants was high. Thus, the sudden turnaround in the systematic orientation appears all the more incomprehensible. This new scheme will again be financially disadvantaged by those communities which have already made extensive investments in waste prevention and waste recovery, thus investing in sustainable environmental protection. I also see a massive control problem coming to mind: The attempt to somehow hide untreated waste or export it abroad will increase dramatically. Those who stay on the track once again are consumers, because the consequences of this extension of the contribution obligation will certainly also be higher garbage fees. Thirdly, Climate protection. Ladies and gentlemen! We have covered the 2003 and 2004 budgets in line with the commitment to climate protection, Mostly in vain. Not even commitment appropriations were to be found entirely in the proposals. According to the latest studies, emissions of climate-damaging greenhouse gases are rising again. The EU also sees problems in meeting its own greenhouse gas reduction commitments. The double budget for 2003/2004 does not make it easy to find appropriate resources for climate protection. If, as you say, the budget represents the policy cast into figures, this is expected to have the worst consequences for an ambitious national climate policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5780	Mrs Tamandel is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5798	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Although I agree with the statements made by my previous speaker on the subject of waste, I do not necessarily have his opinion and, of course, have a different access as Wiener. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: As Vienna in!]] Waste waste has increased by 2 percent in Austria in recent years. Thus, every year, 884,000 tonnes of waste and bulk waste come directly and untreated to the landfills. The Austrians have recently shown much more awareness of the separation of waste – and this, although the trend towards single households and strong economic growth shows 12 percent increase in total waste. With the full implementation of this Deposit Regulation, it may be granted from 1. In January 2004 only more pre-treated waste is stored for health and the environment to a large extent. In the past, garbage dumps have led to water-cleaning old loads that have to be treated expensively. In the past, the environmental awareness of the Austrians was not so strong. So they were completely unclear what it means if they simply throw away and down where they like it. For this very reason, we now have an annual old load recovery requirement of about €70 million, which will last for years until all suspect areas are secured and renovated. It is always cheaper to treat the waste immediately and thereby make it harmless, than later to repair wastes expensive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the present budgets, €45 million will be allocated to direct expenditure and support in 2003 and €67 million for old-age rehabilitation in 2004. These funds are intended and are based on the estimates of revenue from old-age contributions. In Vienna, the SPÖ has for many years failed to meet the trend of growing waste through the construction of a third waste combustion plant. Now that, due to the long advance period, the commissioning of another necessary waste incineration plant can take place at the earliest of 2008, the city of Vienna will be responsible for the waste dump from 1st. In January 2004, a financial increase of €7.8 million per year. [[Abg. Eder: Because the blacks were against it in Vienna! The blacks were against it, you know! The ÖVP was against it!]] In the current decision on the site, the Vienna SPÖ government has made a major mistake in my view by defining the location in the Simmeringer Gärtner region – a clear mistake, ladies and gentlemen, considering that Vienna agriculture covers about 70 percent of the annual demand for fruit and vegetables and the majority of it is produced in the area in question. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder: You have to know yourself in Simmering if you are a Simmeringer!]] – That is right, colleague. Yeah, I'm from Simmering, you're perfectly right. They constantly criticise the environmental policy of the government and the Federal Minister Pröll, but show your own incompetence on this subject by the example of Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5876	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5923	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My contribution relates to renewable energy sources. These have gained considerable importance in the international debate on the future security of energy supply in recent years. The increasing awareness of risks, hazards and side effects has increased the demand for low-emission use of renewable energy sources. However, environmental justification for the use of wind energy and its acceptance is put at risk when wind turbines are built in areas that are significant from the point of view of nature conservation and landscape. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At yesterday's meeting of the Environment Council, we were presented with documents which included the creation of more wind farms. A total of 103 windwheels I have counted, which, if everything works, are placed in the Burgenland – also at the border with Lower Austria. Of course, this is a lot, but the north of our area is the strongest wind area in Austria. 50 million kilowatt hours are currently being fed into the electricity grid in Burgenland from local eco electricity sources. And not only Upper Austria, Mr. Friend, but also my federal state, the Burgenland, is exemplary in ecostrom with the other federal states. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The production of electricity from wind power is expected to help save around 5 million litres of oil and 8 700 tonnes of CO2 from exhaust gases each year – a considerable sum that will help to make a major contribution to climate protection. Nevertheless, I am concerned, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that environmental policy is entirely a prelude to agricultural policy and that it is an annex to agricultural policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This also shows the lack of resources in the field of climate protection. Of the promised additional 3 million, 30 million, apologies, in 2004, up to half actually find themselves in the budget – very disappointing for me, Minister of State. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] I should therefore like to ask you to make a very necessary balance here.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5991	The next speaker is Mr Praßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6009	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! In my constituency, agriculture and forestry also play a significant, very important role. The proportion of people working in agriculture and forestry is very high compared to the Austrian average as well as the Styrian average, with the situation growing historically. Due to climate-friendly conditions, it was possible in the past to secure agricultural holdings with relatively small farm structures. The favourable conditions and the border situation have also influenced this structure, since over generations political interest has also been to settle these border areas as closely as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent times, the conditions have changed greatly by changing from a production and agriculturally dominated economic structure to a service and trade-dominated economy. The economic periphery of us also has disadvantages, for example in the area of infrastructure, in road development. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austrian agriculture, small and medium-sized enterprises dominate – this is also true in my district and constituency. About 80 percent of farms operate less than 10 hectares. But they have deliberately begun a niche production, such as the production of steiric wine, fresh and juicy Styrian apples or Styrian pumpkin kernel oil. With regard to these production segments, not only were very factual and technical advice given from the board, but they were also funded accordingly. The seasonal work peaks are treated with additional auxiliary staff or also with machine rings. Tourism also plays a very important role in my district and constituency. Some data on this: Bad Loipersdorf – a thermal source with special significance. The farmers there have made it skillful and have made a conscious effort to invest in “Holidays on the farm”. A small community in this wonderful Bad Loipersdorf with about 800 inhabitants has about 55,000 accommodations per year, of which about 13,000 are in the area of “Holidays at the farm. ” The direct marketing and marketing of agricultural products also have a very high priority in my area. About 20 percent are sold to consumers in the context of direct marketing. Ladies and gentlemen! I am proud to be a representative of the farmers in this region and also proud of the many farms that are doing excellent work there for all Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think that we have an excellent representation for the future with this Federal Government and with our Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry and will also deal with the major tasks such as enlargement of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6064	The next speaker is Mrs Walther. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6085	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The quality of the environmental and agricultural policy of the SPÖ coalition governments by 1999 can be discussed and shared. It is known that coalition governments – the unanimity of the Council of Ministers was a duty, so all decisions were also decided by the ÖVP ministers and are also to be held responsible by them. Finally, please stand on this responsibility! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill: We do that too!]] However, in 1978 – it has been some time since – it was possible under the SPÖ government alone to hold a referendum; it was about Austria's exit from nuclear energy. This referendum was almost out of date, for the exit from nuclear energy. The then Federal Chancellor followed the outcome of the referendum, with Austria as the first European country to leave nuclear energy. Support It is therefore still today – up to 4 p.m. – the popular desire for a non-atomic Europe! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I too am proud of the South Styrian winegrowers, especially those from my community. During the water-right negotiations on new plants of vineyards, it is always said that it is no longer time-consuming to discharge the water through deep drainage, so that it runs away on the fastest path and disappears in the Mur. It is true that we already have serious problems with drought, even in the wine-growing plants; especially the new plants have to be irrigated, as otherwise the sticks cannot grow. In any case, the guidelines for support must be reviewed and evaluated. In order to ensure that the water does not flow from the deep drains, it should be created storage basins, but can be re-used in agriculture. It is also intended to be used for water supply in the municipalities. Water is an important food. The reservoirs are important, but this is also very important: Hands away from privatising our basic food Water! Water must not become a speculation object! I have serious concerns when there is a discussion about the privatisation of our water. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] According to the Green Report 2001, the number of organic holdings has decreased, particularly in border regions, where it is also a matter of preserving the cultural landscape, so that these less favoured areas can also enter tourism, namely in the agricultural by-products sector. It is in these border regions that we are talking about preserving and re-establishing farm labour opportunities, farm jobs. In the context of rural areas, I would ask you, Minister, to pay particular attention to these border regions and to the promotion of the bio-agricultural sector, to continue to promote them and to promote them to a greater extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6137	I call Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6156	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Vorarlberg with its high share of By the work of the rural family farms, Berggebiet has also preserved its characteristics as an attractive living, economic and recreation area. At the same time, agriculture and forestry ensure jobs and thus value added in the regions. By maintaining healthy and attractive habitats, it also provides the most important basis for local tourism. 98 per cent of Vorarlberg's agricultural area, ladies and gentlemen, is in the less favoured area. If one also takes into account the alpung, then there is actually no farm in our country that only manages areas without natural difficulty. The structure of the processing plants is also a difficult one. After all, 34 of the Austrian milk processing plants are located in Vorarlberg, although only 4.3 percent of Austrian milk production takes place in Vorarlberg. It is therefore possible to imagine that production based on the world market will not be possible without the service charges of society. Vorarlberg's agriculture therefore strives to produce, in cooperation with the processing companies, healthy and high-quality food guaranteed, with the quality brand "Luag druf" for the domestic market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The aim is to ensure that Vorarlberg farmers can market their high-quality products with a corresponding value added and maintain this pillar of farm income. The decoupling, as it is currently being discussed in Brussels, must be firmly rejected in this form from Vorarlberg's point of view. The aim of this proposal is to decouple the performance fees from production, thus apparently giving farmers more flexibility. It is much more likely, however, that this measure will significantly reduce livestock farming in the mountain areas. However, mountain farming, agriculture that acts in cycles, is not imaginable without livestock farming. Unfortunately, a certain amount of structural cleansing will not be preventable. But this connection of decoupling will result in those who care for our country, those who provide high-quality, natural and healthy food to our people by the side and often unthankfully, can no longer recognize the meaning of their important work. That is why, as a Vorarlberg Member of Parliament, I say it as Vorarlberger Bauer, in particular, no to this type of decoupling.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6210	I call Mrs Heller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6228	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to make a few points here today about the image of women in agriculture. Mrs Binder has drawn a picture here that has long since been in line with reality. Among other things, she claimed that the farmers live in a feeling of isolation and demarcation on her farms. I must say that the rural population is the core group of the rural population, that farms have grown in generations, and that, of course, it is only possible to leave the farm if one leaves the farm. That isolation exists in the way it was drawn here, I can't feel it. On the contrary: It is even a very personal relation to the farms and to the agricultural work of the farmers. The lack of access to education – as it was presented here – does not correspond to the facts. A comprehensive education and training programme is offered, in particular by the Chambers of Agriculture. I can tell you from the example of Niederösterreich that 173 588 participants were present in these events and seminars in the year 2002/2003. These are not only farmers, but also women and men from rural areas who like to come to these events. Access to education is thus given to farmers as much as to all women living in rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to point out very briefly that farmers as managers also play a priority role. Mr Grillitsch has already said that 30 percent of the farms are run by women. This is a value derived from EUROSTAT from 2000. I have here the survey data from April 2003 from the compulsory insurance at the farmers' social insurance institution, and then 47 percent of farmers' farms are already managed. Agriculture is becoming more and more female, and I think that it should also be directed towards it. It has also been mentioned several times, particularly by Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, that large businesses are being so greatly promoted and that smaller businesses are under-funded. I would like to appeal to you: Seeing The success of the operation is not only from the point of view of the area! Our farmers and farm families are creative and innovative and are of course also able to lead smaller farms to success, which in particular shows the data: In recent decades, the number of farms between 1 and 20 hectares has fallen by 32 percent – a dramatic value – while the number of large farms has decreased by more than 40 percent. The medium-sized enterprises were most stable and had a 13 percent decline. Finally, I would like to thank all the speakers who have highlighted wine and wine in particular and who have particularly recognized the performance of this professional group. I think that the marketing and advertising measures that are now in the hands of the wine-winners as a result of the installation of the interprofessional wine-committees will also help in particular to ensure that the wine-making process will also take place on the international wine market accordingly. Our winegrowers produce high and highest quality, which also experience great recognition. The year 2002 was a truly important export year for Austria, it was able to record a record in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6277	The next speaker is Mr Preineder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6295	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Anni Hellener is, I think, signs that agriculture is female. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's agriculture has a great deal of change behind it and certainly still has great changes ahead of it. Production-related compensatory payments ensure the stability of our farms and also ensure agricultural livelihoods. However, the opportunities of agriculture are certainly not in compensatory payments, the opportunities lie in the market. I should like to thank all consumers here, especially after accession to the European Union. The European Union has been loyal to our agricultural products. And it was not clear that we will succeed in defending our shelves in the markets; we were afraid of foreign competitive products. In this context, I would also like to thank the agricultural market Austria, which celebrated its tenth birthday yesterday, for helping us to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Today, however, I am particularly interested in a very positive development in the field of organic farming, because I am a organic farmer myself. Austria is a leader in Europe as regards its share of organic farmers. In 2002, 9.1 percent of farms with 11.3 percent of the area were organic holdings. However, I am allowed to present the latest number to you – perhaps the Federal Minister does not know yet, because I asked her only yesterday –: In 2003, we organic farmers increased the area to 12.8 percent, an increase of 1.5 percent, an increase of almost 40 000 hectares from 2002 to 2003. I believe that an increase in organic farming cannot be achieved through an increase in premium rates, but only through an increase in consumer demand in this direction. From 1995 to 1998, we had the situation that many people were pushing bio-agricultural incentives and soon left because there was no market because there was no sales. It is important to develop organic farming together with the paragraph. And I believe that in “Bio-Austria” as a service centre by the Federal Minister for Bio-Associations, as a service centre, which is also intended to bring a uniform seal of quality and thus more transparency to the consumer, a visible signal can be seen in this direction. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can invite all Austrians: Grab on to domestic quality products, grab to native organic products! Your purchase decides!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6352	Mrs Schefermair is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6371	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Binder – and I am able to follow up with Mr Hellerer’s speech – had some points in her speech that I would like to answer in my own way. It notes that this government is responsible for this in terms of rural erodement. I do not think this is justified because it is precisely this government that is committed to strengthening the rural area and is also committed to doing so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Green Report. Mrs Binder, you do not find a corresponding chapter on women in agriculture. Farmers are the case in point for women to lead families, as well as farms together. They do not want to be highlighted separately, because these families in the field of agriculture live in partnership. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Parliamentary Hellerer has also said that 30 percent of the farms in Austria are run by women. This is an EU-wide peak, the highest share. In the EU section, it is only 24 percent of the farms run by women alone. To the traditional roles, which were also so strongly criticized. Ladies and gentlemen! Tradition so understood that good things are preserved is a very beautiful task that we farmers like to fulfil. The openness to admit new things brings great fulfillment to many young farmers. For example, three of my neighbors have the following occupations: One is a teacher, one is a journalist and an elderly caregiver – and they are very satisfied. So we farmers are not only arrested for the traditional role model, but we are modern. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With 16 percent, Austria has the highest share of young business leaders under 35 years of age. In Austria, 230 000 female farmers have joined forces in the farmers' organisation in order to develop their wishes to discuss their goals, objectives and projects. Farmers open up new economic branches incessantly, they are creative, constructive, critical – not only in the management, they are therefore at the forefront. Finally, I would like to thank you for the budget that secures agriculture, homeland and the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6431	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6449	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a practical farmer, of course, I have followed the debate this morning with great interest and I have also seen how it stands with the interest in agriculture in the individual groups. I had to say with a little disappointment that, for example, at 10.35 a.m., only twelve persons from the SPÖ Group were present here. I believe that agriculture is such an important issue that we should all take time to do so and that we should all make a clear commitment to farmers and to agriculture, as the EIA does. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we ask ourselves whether there should still be farmers in the future, and this question, I hope everyone will answer with Yes, then we must also let the farmers live. That means we have to create conditions and consolidate that the farmers... – What's your name? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Mayer!]] The colleague would like to introduce himself, but I do not understand the name. All right, then I can continue. We must allow farmers to obtain the corresponding income. In absolute terms, income looks a little different from that shown by Mr Faul, in comparison to the unemployed: Farmers had an average income of €1274 in 2000, while the average income of workers was €2 146. If he has mentioned percentages in a significant amount in connection with the increase from last year to this day, I must tell him that 4 percent of 1,200 are 48 and 2.5 percent of 2 100 are 52,5, so make up much more than the increase in farmers. We farmers are focusing on the expectations of the population, and the task of the farmers is varied and has changed considerably over the last decades. Some speakers have already noted this. If it has been a matter of ensuring food security, then today the area of responsibility of farmers is the protection of habitat. We also provide best food in sufficient quantity and high quality for our fellow citizens. Our answer, the ÖVP's answer is eco-social market economy, combined with a comprehensive management! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The problem, however, arises, is to be presented on the basis of three points. First: The food is paid directly by the consumer. You can go to the store and buy the food. I give Mrs Schönpass the right if she says that the concentration of trade makes great problems for us and we have to think about what we can do about it. Secondly, However, for the public services, we need a detour through the public budget, which is why we are discussing this budget today. We do not need farmers to let ourselves be prevented every time that we are beneficiaries of subsidies, because we are providing services to society, and we also want to have paid these benefits accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There would be no human being to present the banks as the best-subsidized companies in Austria. But especially the banks, the Austrian state has to transfer over €8 billion each year to interest on the basis of socialist debt policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should like to add one more aspect, ladies and gentlemen: Production costs are a little higher in Austria than in other countries in this world. [[Abg. Grade: In which? Are you calling the countries?]] We have competition with Australia, we have competition with CAIRNS countries, including with regard to agricultural products. If I address these countries, I can tell you that there are workers in these countries who have to work for a euro – we do not want to! – but not at a Euro in the hour, but on the day! I ask you whether you want us to take over these competitive conditions irregularly in the labour market. We in agriculture do not want to do so, and that is why we need appropriate regulations in this context. Let me conclude by saying: The Austrian government does something, it implements the environmental programme, it does something for the miners, and the farmers participate voluntarily. This budget requires farmers to be able to generate income. Voices That's the budget! It is a good budget for Austria, and it is a good budget for the people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6532	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6551	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Just before the Minister flies to Brussels or Luxembourg for the final negotiations, and after my previous speaker the consumer side – in 3 minutes, very little, as an assignment to you, Mr Minister, and as an appeal to your willingness to cooperate with you, my fellow Members. First: Mr Minister, you still owe us the answer, which is now happening with the centres of competence in organic farming, the Bio-Austria strategy. This would be a forward-looking rail, where we would preside at the market, where we would point at EU level, where we are precisely in the concept of agricultural reform, where fishermen are put on the table, and where, above all, we could enable consumers to offer a wider, healthier offer. Please, give us an answer! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's all on the table!]] Our motion goes in this direction too, and in fact, as you have argued, my colleagues from the ÖVP would have to be able to be carried by you in a massive way. - That's the one side. The second aspect, which has been discussed, and the second aspect, which is important: The question of food safety, which is closely linked to food control, is particularly important for consumers. Mr Minister, you are also a member of the Agency for Health and Food Safety. Also Your department spends 31 million on this important control task. Only – you probably know that better than I do –: That's far too little! You probably know that the ROI study has provided a much higher financial requirement for effective food control. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Food control is country matter!]] If it goes on as it has been legally decided here – against our votes! – then you have to release 500 out of 1,200 employees on the spot, so to speak, and then we have a far too low standard with 700 employees for this important area of agricultural feed control and food control. Then we can practically lock up, and the agency is going to be a bankruptcy. We don't want that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! In this direction, you have to use much, much more, to increase here, to create the necessary financial reserves and to make funds available. Finally, to the Food Act. You always say you need the consumers as partners. Yes, I do! They also need consumer confidence, no question. Your products should be bought. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] The use of veterinary medicinal products is a very delicate thing. Although we have made a legal change, this does not take effect. And you will notice: In 14 days I can call you a case where there are massive violations again and where black sheep are again carrying out illegal imports in your series, and the whole is then at the expense of your industry and at the expense of our consumption in the food sector. [[to Abg. Grillish walled]] It will then become clear that there are still enforcement deficits under the Food Law. And you, Mr Minister, should also make yourself strong, because I will put these cases on the table in 14 days.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6633	Minister, don't ask the government bank!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6648	Finally, the big plea: Sounds You are one in the revision of the Food Law, so that the implementation becomes more efficient and your quality products are not disturbed by black sheep! - Yes, please! [[Abg. Mr Grillitsch: This suspicion is exactly what we are going to see, Mrs Moser. Put it on the table in 14 days!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6688	Are there any further statements on the Agriculture chapter? - There's no such thing. Thus, this part of the discussions is closed. Health and women Chapter 17: Health and women
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6715	We come to the negotiation of Chapter 17: Health and women. The first speaker is Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6737	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Health policy is one of the most important policies, ladies and gentlemen. This is about fair opportunities and participation in the health system as a whole, regardless of social status and income. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] We decide in health policy survival opportunities, ladies and gentlemen. Let us now examine the impact of your policy on people's specific situations in life. – Last week you decided on the so-called pension reduction reform and on the introduction of general self-sufficiency by January 2005. What are the effects of self-maintaining on the situations of life, especially of socially weak and sick people, ladies and gentlemen? Self retention is generally dissuasive without distinguishing between necessary and less necessary treatments. Overall, the dissuasive effect, in particular for low incomes, results in adverse health effects and additional health costs. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Nor can exceptions guarantee actual protection for income weak and chronically ill. The financing of self-retaining is unolidarian; people suffering from illness are directly burdened. Ladies and gentlemen! This experience clearly disproves the sense of general self-preservation. They primarily use self retention as a political instrument. With your neoliberal, market-oriented policy, you send a signal to the strong and healthy in our society. For you, self retention is only a regressively regressive financial instrument, with which you push socially weak and sick people to the brink. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] However, this does not guarantee a contribution to solving the obvious structural problems of health care. Ladies and gentlemen! For us, the principle that a forward-looking health policy should not be satisfied with securing what has been achieved, But it has to face the new challenges. Therefore, financial consolidation should not take place through reductions in performance and general increases in self-maintenance, but rather through productivity and quality improvements and with new elements of transparent, fair financing. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The result of your policy is that you have to keep weak and sick people account for non-social restraints. People will present the bill on the election day. You will pay dearly for this non-social policy! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6834	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6873	I'm always on duty! – I want to start a little pathetic with a quote from Sir Karl Popper: Policy aims to avoid as much unhappiness as possible. Mr Lackner, you do not conced the ÖVP and the government this very objective, although in Austria it was traditional to shape health policy together. We have also achieved common goals: in the last legislative period, for example, the hospice movement that we supported with a four-party application. Yes, Mr Lacner, it is about justice! And this justice you will not create if you simply look away on important issues in health policy. We have undertaken to create world class for all, regardless of income. This high level confirms the EU, the World Health Organisation confirms us. Austria is a world class, and it is a security at this high level. Today, there was the news in a Swiss newspaper that Switzerland is performing about a third of the transplants carried out in Austria. A few days ago, Minister Strasser celebrated 20 years of emergency helicopters in Austria. We have the world's best emergency helicopter system, and I think that's a reason to be proud! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today, the news came that in America health costs have increased by 9.6 percent, although over 40 million Americans cannot accept the corresponding offer at all. At the same time, America is the country in which in the future 18 states will probably not have gynecologists, no neurosurgeons, no accident surgeons, because there the liability regulations are so strict that the premiums are already more expensive than the doctor's fees. This too is America, and I am really glad that I can be in Austria – with our problems. We too have problems; this should not be discussed away. Mr Lacner, in your speech – apart from questionable self-hold ideologies – there was no concrete suggestion that would make you better. Of course, we also have problems in Austria, as in all of Europe. With us, the cost of medication per year averages 8 per cent. But the reason for this is not that the doctors would have become wild, but because it's just one of them. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent work. Of course you can do this one or the other, but you can't make impossible. For us from the ÖVP, it is about keeping the high level in an optimal cost use. So: do not ration, but use optimal costs! We've made our choices. I just mentioned the hospice movement. Yes, this is a smoothing position! In Holland there are 9 600 applications for early termination of life, for death aid. 3 200 lives are ended each year. Do you know how much that is? This is just as much as Austria's largest nursing home, the Pflegeheim Wienerwald, formerly Lainz, has on beds! In other words, every year in Holland as many lives as the Lainz nursing home has patients are ended prematurely. I think this is a subject that you should consider, and Austria is very good on the go. We have become a preferred country in Europe, together with pain therapy, from a follow-up country in the Hospice movement! We should be proud of that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to give you examples, because you can play this through very well using examples. 20,000 Austrians suffer from stroke each year. There was no rehabilitation in 1989. At the time, Mr Ettl and I brought this together into the government programme. Today we are rehabilitating very, very many, but still too few. There are about 300 to 400 beds missing, but more is happening in Austria than in any other country in the EU – this is also to be said in the case of stroke care – and this means we can reduce the care risk by 50 percent – which, elsewhere, will save costs, but especially humanity, because the word cost should not be exceeded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the government programme, we have put a focus on prevention. Especially you as Vorarlberger should know: Vorarlberg is the cradle of precautionary care, and Vorarlberg has the world's best results. Mr. Landesrat Mayer, whom I admire very much, told me that it took ten years for him to see the first successes. That means we can not only think of the next half-year in politics, but we must think very far ahead, but then the successes will cease. Mr Lacner, we must look where the problems are. The new mega problem in the Western world, yes, world-wide, will be overweight. Today, in America, as many people die of obesity as smoking! The second problem we need to consider is nicotine and alcohol consumption, the wrong consumption. A study by the Lower Austrian state government has shown shocking things: We have Europe-wide, with Greenland the highest smoking rate among young people! Truly, we do not need to be proud of that! And we also have a very high alcohol rate among young people where noises are on the agenda. I think we have to intervene, that prevention makes sense to prevent diseases in 20, 30 years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or: You will now always see the advertising of the prevention, where the party presidents are pleading for intestinal cancer prevention. Yes, that makes sense! Each year, 5,000 Austrians suffer from intestinal cancer. That's too much, 90 percent of it could be prevented by precautions. I therefore think that this is a good action. Mr Lacner, if you had brought fewer slogans, we could have discussed self-preservation as well. No human wants to be socially weak. magazines. No human wants to prevent people from using health care. The fact is: Without the one billion self-esteem we now have, many patients have to pay 100 percent of their own, namely private benefits, as the health insurance funds need this money to finance benefits. Yes, we want borders, that is, boundaries for chronically ill people! 20 percent of patients need 80 percent of the performance. We want borders for small-income sick people. Who are they? – These are mostly older women with small pensions; we do not want to burden them. That's quite different from what you claim. You think we want to remove people neoliberally from the system somewhere. Take us by the word! We do not want any steering effects, as Mr Köck always preaches, with 50 percent. We don't want that. But tell us a way – you say everything must not be – how we should finance health care! Among other things, self retention is a small contribution – a small contribution! As a Christian-social party, we certainly do not want a punishment in the form that chronically ill people do not receive their care.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7003	Mr Grünewald. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. It is proposed a speaking time of 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7021	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! What does the ÖVP Health Programme have as the largest common denominator with skiing? – This is the Rasingerian “world class”. I have rarely heard the expression “world class” as often as in these discussions by the Federal Government on their areas of government! Let's take a look at this! [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Is that bad?]] – World class is not bad if you have it! However, you must not close your eyes to the shortcomings that still exist for patients. These deficits are mainly due to the fact that the government – and this impression can be very badly blurred – wants to discuss health policy almost exclusively on the cost issue, i.e. budgetaryly. However, the fact that there is a risk of health risks to diseases exists that there is a risk of health in remote, low-income shifts that there is health risk due to housing and work situations and the environment, the government programme includes some vague, partly full-fledged sayings and does not, at least, record in the budget. An example – I rarely bring examples –: About ten years ago, when I still had to do night duty on the emergency ambulance, a woman about 50 years old came with heart pain. There was an infarction excluded, but an extension of the main arterial arterial arterial area was found. I have tried to tell this woman that she has to be operated very quickly, that it is very urgent, otherwise there is a risk of life. The patient said she didn't want to. I spoke with her for hours; the time is only running away. She told me she was a maid with an architect. There's suddenly a very expensive ring missing, and they've been accused of. She was sentenced to – I don't know – one year imprisonment. The ring showed up again. Her husband left her. In her place, although she was rehabilitated, she still had the stigma of a prisoner. She said she didn't want to live like that anymore. It was not possible to even with the help of psychiatrists and others not to move them to surgery. She's bleeding after her son visited her. This is also a precursor of disease! They always want to make changes in behaviour. Changes in behaviour in remote and low-income shifts are difficult to achieve; this is much more possible for educated and wealthy people. That means you have to be careful to change the conditions – and I can't see anything there! There I really see only sayings, which are just like that before grandma's desire, on the one hand, and little spirit on the other! Saving programs cannot push these thoughts into the background! I believe that if health policy becomes too cheap, especially the sick, the patients could quickly get expensive. Your example, Mr Rasinger, rehabilitation of strokes, shows what is necessary: There are about one third more beds missing for late aftercare than now. For example, there is a 16-year-old Moped accident after severe skull trauma in the forest district in an old home, in a six-bed room, next to 80-year-old patients. Is the World Class? - I don't think so! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The government programme states that rehabilitation is important – but rehabilitation is not about God’s reward! And that is what Mr Rasinger knows. That is to say, there are really no sustainable strategies in this health policy; there are also largely no targets, because they are either unclear or pure foaming. And: Foaming may make the “Salzburger Nockerln” better, but not health policy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lentic.]] - You don't need to laugh at that! [[Abg. Wittauer: There you have to laugh yourself...!]] What I'm saying is very serious. [[Abg. Steibl: You can also be afraid!]] – I’m not afraid, but the politics you’re making sometimes scares! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: The Policy of the Opposition Parties!]] Examples of this are when I talk about your “great manhood. ” Shell in a paper: “Future needs responsibility!” what does Schüsel write – and then what has he read from the leaf? – Health bowl: We want to reduce the number of cardiovascular diseases, strokes and cancers by double the precautionary examinations by 25 percent. - Quote. In the case of cancer, the EU has just managed to reduce it by 5% in ten years. – Well, okay, you can say: We have to set high goals!, but: You will never achieve these goals! In a question to Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat on the subject of budget – a budget for which the Minister of Finance cannot do anything – she is not the Minister of Finance – we asked the question: What is the result of the budgetary decrease in precautionary medicine, which should be doubled, as well as of epidemiological measures? – Mrs Minister's reply, a little shortened: This decline is due to the restrictive budget targets! – “Future needs responsibility!” Paradox, of course, is also, as the Federal Government, which speaks of ‘cash renovation’, is in addition burdening the cash registers. – But I do not read this list of all the tax measures of the cash registers at all, but only summarize: These go to the level of at least €500 million – if not more! At the same time, the government authorized the cash registers to reorganise their budget by allowing them to reduce benefits from the additional services in accordance with the statutes. This concerns: Reduction of subsidies in the case of aids, in the case of cures, in the case of dental replacements, dental regulations, ergotherapy, physiotherapy, logos, health care and transport costs. – So the patients were burdened by you, ladies and gentlemen by the government parties! That's how the sick were burdened! And you, Mr Rasinger, are talking about "world class"?- Oh, my God! Astronaut food in the case of severe esophagus cancer, where people can't eat anything anymore, in the case of cancers in the neck-nose ear area, the cash desk has been restricted with subsidies, so that patients who have already been tormented until the walk-no-more, who sometimes have to pay for themselves – and so on and so on! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Austria is third in the world in terms of private expenditure in the health sector. Third worldwide! And you from the government parties still want to expand the self-hold – there was no talk of harmonizing at all! - In view of this: They wanted to become “world class” and you might do so, and Austria is coming to the first place in the world what this private expenditure is going on! But that's not good – that's what everyone will tell you! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We also agreed on what structural measures and what is happening to redeployment of 10,000 beds. But what is in the answer to the question – even there is nothing for Mrs Rauch-Kallat: The net savings effects cannot be estimated because it requires the consent of the countries! Who of us said or agreed that the federal government here must have more control options?- Oh, my God! – But you write in your government program: Control, quality assurance! Finally, however, go from the ÖVP in front of your heads of state to your knees! Grasser has just devoted seven lines to health in his budget speech. And then one reads such ‘ illuminant’ sentences as: We want to maintain and improve the tried and proven health system! – This is insanely “toll” – and “intrusive”. What do you want to improve? How do you want to improve this? There's no line in there. Rasinger has colported – this is also an improvement – he wants to see 90-year-olds who can take a spat. – I think you, Mr Rasinger, can't, neither can I, but: Is that a health policy measure?! “30 000 jobs in the health sector through more care and care posts”, write. Yes, that's great, 30,000 jobs promise you! But who pays that? Who gives these jobs? - No one! Again: That's what I think is grandcatism and foaming! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Rauch-Kallat was in the “process of making opinions”, as regards self-retaining, it was said. – I think that’s commendable when you make opinions, but: The government could have formed opinions before by paying its own -! – Studies and opinions read, in which it is essentially that the self-retaining does not bring what you imagine from the coalition! But the bowl has another sentence: “Future needs bright heads!” – The Council for Research and Technology Development did not happen to have the following posters: “It’s up to the pear!” – But if I remember correctly, it’s called “Williams” – and not Wolfgang!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7195	Mrs Rosenkranz. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7214	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I am right for my previous speaker to say that, of course, health policy cannot only talk about financing, because there is much more to be clear about reaching agreement on a lot more, but nevertheless a substantial part of health policy is to make the funds available for the goals, lines and requirements that were once recognised. I also admit that now that medical technology has reached an enormous high level, there has been a lot of follow-up. It is possible to revive particularly victims of accidents, which one must then also rehabilitate; there is certainly much to do. But I absolutely do not share the opinion of my previous speaker that the budget – on the basis of what is to be read – is simply a matter of “smoothing”! I note that those who make the health policy of this government – I can thank Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, but above all Mr. State Secretary Waneck, who has been responsible for it for two years and who is himself a doctor, who can well be recognized – have to make a serious effort to respond to the new and very big challenges. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Our health system is a good system, and much needs to be done to ensure that it remains such. Just leaving it that way would be bad in this area, because then it would simply and simply lower the quality of public health – at the beginning probably even unnoticed and inconceivable. Those who have enough private resources could then use them and really claim everything that is available. But that's certainly not what you're trying to do. In order to maintain the high level of health care in Austria, it is necessary to recognise and, above all, to take note of what is possible in developments, how to react to how to intervene in a tax manner – differently from when it comes to, for example, old age insurance. In the field of retirement insurance, it seems that not only years have been spent, but decades of statistics have either immediately been thrown into the dungy, because “not interesting,” or it is obvious that you are no longer in office at any given time. – That is why we are now facing the problem of much stronger cuts than would have been necessary if you had responded in time. Therefore, it can only be of great importance to highlight and highlight the fact that, in the field of health, demographic development is even more significant, first because of the gratifying fact that we are all getting older and older, but probably knowing that particularly high health costs – the percentage is an enormously high one – are high in old age. I believe that in the case of over 85-year-olds, it is well over 60 percent of the funds that need to be invested in the health and, above all, health care. Secondly, however, – and this is the unsatisfying thing – the number of contributors is massively reduced. So the demographic effect is particularly strong and double. In any case, the volume of financial resources in health care will have to increase. We will simply and simply need more money, because because of the higher age of life, but also because of medical and technological progress, things are possible today, of which ten years ago one could only dream. That is, in order to get through well, one has to define very clear objectives. I do not mean that there is a commitment to health, but I think that it is not so much in the interest of economy – that is then added – but above all humanity is important to promote health awareness and to keep as many people as possible healthy as possible, especially as many people as possible for as long as possible, because the higher life expectancy will only be a profit if the healthy or at least the relatively uncomplicated years expand – and not the time of the disease and the slow and morbid becoming. It is therefore quite clear that this must be the first priority. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, it is not always possible to maintain health. Then it will be necessary to make all the resources available to restore health in full or at least in part, and these two things must be accessible to all. Access to health and health care facilities must be provided for all: regardless of social status and age. And that is now very questionable; many of you who are interested in it will have followed the debate in Germany on this issue. You also know the practice in England, where certain operations are no longer carried out at all from a certain age. – And, of course, this access must also be given independently of gender. This is not only a command of humanity – we in Austria can count far more than in other countries on the solidarity of our fellow citizens, they also want it – but also justice, because what we provide in the results of science and research and in the results of medical technology is a result of the whole community, is a result of our good training, the efforts made by all taxpayers. And so it is necessary to point out that what everyone creates and achieves is then also available from all, so to speak, and this will also have the very first importance and priority for us liberals in health policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To achieve these goals – these are far-reaching goals, because, as I said, it will not become cheaper, but much more expensive – it certainly needs a clear strategy, and I see it. I do not see here in the budget ‘smoothing’, but see, for example, the National Austrian Health Plan, which clearly shows how these measures should be implemented in order to secure the level and to continue in the future. The first is, as I said, to strengthen health awareness. I only refer to the WHO definition, which defines health promotion as the process, which enables people to gain greater control of their health and thereby improve their health. This is a very clear task, which you always see. There have been a number of campaigns, and there is also education in schools. Not that this would not be even stronger – quite the contrary! – but there is something to do. And that's where you can go. It is very important, even young children, schoolchildren, so always where people of a certain age group are gathered together to clarify the health awareness; it also depends on the way of life. Not the compulsion or the obligation to health, but the reconnaissance that people, especially in young years in which they do not even think of diseases in later years, are kept in mind: You have some of that in your hand. And there's a short page note on a question. As far as the question of legal drugs is concerned, thank God, not to everyone's pleasure, but to tobacco consumption some reasonable things have been done and said lately. It is no question that it is more reasonable not to smoke, no question that it is necessary to prevent young people from falling into this addiction at all, but this commitment to legal drugs should not, in fact, lead us to be indignant in dealing with illegal drugs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As long as we give our young people the feeling that nothing is at all – and they have this feeling because it is given to them – we will only manage drug addiction – but in no way will we fight! I'm allowed to deposit here, I see this completely pragmatic. There has certainly never been a drug-free society; I agree with you. As long as only individuals are confronted with drugs, they will be allowed to be helped if they need them, but beyond that we are far beyond. The thing has long been epidemic! All over the flatland, in all social strata, drugs are consumed. I can also appeal to you, Dr. Grünewald – you are a doctor, you know – to: Cannabis cannabis is an insanity! Recent research has shown that, apart from long-term damage to thinking ability, cannabis can actually trigger schizophrenia. I think it is irresponsible to act as if it was something that you consume – or not – for a time. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Drug use affects our young people's chances of living in the most massive way – and this is also to be taken into account, beyond all ideological ideas. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It needs a level building in our health care. The first is prevention of treatment, i.e. preventive medicine of curative medicine must be equated. It also says: ambulant in front of stationary. There are, of course, all those institutions, such as the health insurance companies, which are called upon to better shape and close the interfaces between these areas. It needs rehabilitation before care. This, too, is a big project that will devour financial resources, with praises to stress that, for example, the acute beds, which are aimed at rehabilitation, which are now in implementation, are a result of the last period of government. To make the funds available will not be easy. It will be necessary to make the device fleet and to remind you what to do, namely to optimize all existing means, that is to say, to save in the administration, to save enormous functional privileges – and to really put everything there is into health care. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There will be a need for self-retaining. And here's a word about it: They just pretend from the SPÖ that you'd be introduced for the first time. The restraints come from your time. Rather, it is about harmonizing the achievements first and then looking at what you do with the self-holding. As they have now been introduced – whenever there has been a financial need, one has introduced a restraint, and it has been a purely monetary measure, not a structural instrument – was It's bad anyway! Harmonization of self retention and harmonisation of benefits. This is a huge task ahead of us, because the means we are already using are very high – and will have to get much higher. We will have to make every effort to achieve the goal: optimal health care for the entire population without discrimination from a group. In any case, this objective can only be achieved if all participate without party policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7383	Mrs Csörgits is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7401	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! To your comments, Dr. Rasinger: Austria was once world leader in health policy. They have just not said that this was the time when Social Democrats and Social Democrats were responsible for health policy! That's where we were the world's peak! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But this has changed dramatically thanks to the entry of your party and the FPÖ into the Federal Government. - That's the one. [[Abg. Großruck: But still world peak...!]] Yes, but not as good as we used to be – you know that very well! – and this will worsen even further thanks to your policy. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Firstly, in the budget speech of Mr. Grasser, very few sentences have been lost on the subject of health policy – in the truest sense of the word. He noted that the sustainable financial viability of health insurance is currently at risk, while at the same time he threatened with self-preservation. I can follow the statements made by my previous speakers to the effect that self-retainers are unsocial, that self-retainers meet exactly those who are sick people, self-retainers meet exactly those who have less money in the stock exchange, and self-retain solely and alone lead people to go to the doctor less often. [[Abg. Großruck: Are they also unsocial among the railways?]] [[Abg. Grossruck: With the farmers and the self-employed also unsocial?]] [[Abg. Großruck: Tell the railways!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] This means that the people in Austria are not getting healthier, but are getting sicker – thanks to your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All other measures that would go in the direction that more financial resources would be available in the local health telephone are also not taken into account in this budget design. I should like to remind you once again that the obligation to use tobacco tax is no longer present. This means that more than € 82 million will simply not be made available to the health insurance companies, but will once again serve to re-establish the budget, which has basically not been fully implemented, as the government's propaganda policy always represents. What also needs to be said critically is that a regulation empowering the Ministry of Finance in agreement with the Ministry of Health will also lead to a change in social security in connection with the compensation of VAT already paid, such as medicines. This means in the clear text that the procedure no longer gives the necessary certainty that this compensation will be available. And that could mean that the health insurance fund is also lost €80 million. One can bring the matter to the fore as follows: You do everything you can to tighten up the financial situation of the health insurance companies! You do this not only with the health insurance companies, but you do it in the social insurance sector as a whole. It is no different to understand that the main association will in future be obliged to carry out information from the ministries at the expense of its budget, the budget of the main association. I would like to remind you: These are the contributions of the social insurers, the workers, the employees, but also the employer, so basically the contributions of the insured! On the basis of these costs, the individual insured person will also be responsible for the operation of the information policy of the two ministries. What is also very interesting in this context is that in future the contents must be agreed with both ministries, i.e. the Federal Minister and the Federal Minister. Allow me to make this interim remark: For me, the impression arises that there is no very large basis of trust. But while you are still thinking about pulling the money out of the bag, at the same time you are bluffing the administration device extremely up! At present, for example, two ministries – two ministers and one State Secretary – are responsible for the field of the ASVG. This also costs money, which even costs a lot of money. This reminds me very much of the blue-black tower building in Babel: It's getting more and more, but it doesn't seem like anything's coming out! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I can only put it to the point: Our still quite good health system is going to be fatal thanks to your government!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7531	Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. The clock is set to a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7549	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to my previous speaker: I'll turn that back! Mrs Rauch-Kallat has just last week demonstrated in the decision of the pension reform that she is very likely to ensure that it continues to be positive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] It is precisely the women's package, which has been chained there, that can be seen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this government – I say it all consciously again – more has been achieved for women than ever before in a government! The same applies to health. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the change to women's policy: In spite of the difficult budgetary situation and despite our intention to achieve fiscal consolidation, we have succeeded in increasing budget funding in the area of women's promotion and women's affairs by 11.34 percent in 2003 and by 11.98 percent in 2004. [[Abg. Steibl: Look here!]] Please, you can see that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This also ensures that the work of the women's advisory services and the work of the girl's advisory services – which is particularly important to me – continues to ensure that there are long-term safeguards and that there will be multi-annual funding contracts. I think this is very important, because it also ensures the continuity of work and makes it possible to do planned work. I think that is a good and important approach. However, I would also like to say that it is very important to me personally – and I also think it makes sense – that we have a woman as a woman minister of women. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think that is the right approach, although I also see – and I do so quite consciously – that Mr Vice-Kanzler's head has done quite well. I was also one of the few politicians in Austria who gave a very positive opinion on the establishment of the men's advisory services. I still do this because I think men also need support, men also need advice, men also need help. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] We also have such a man-advisor in Klagenfurt, and this is quite positive, Mrs Prammer. I think that this is a good thing in the sense of the preventive approach – including the conflicts that exist very often in families. It will be a central issue for us – and it is – to push for measures that lead to a reduction in income shears. It really needs to be done here, and here the choice of profession is already crucial. It is still true that many girls opt for so-called female occupations where wage levels are lower. There are many women from the economy in the field of the economy – because today many women from the economy are among the listeners – especially among the small and small entrepreneurs many women. In this context, it is important to set up a truly better framework here. Here, of course, the social partners are also required. As a woman in the economy, it is also particularly important for me to come to a reduction in income shears. The goal must be to achieve the same wage for the same work and for the same performance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We in Austria are not as bad as you always try to present it. We are not so bad, the female employment rate in Austria is 63 percent higher than the EU average. [[Abg. May. Worm: What kind of jobs? What kind of jobs are these? Part-time workers...!]] We will continue to force innovative childcare projects in order to create better opportunities for the compatibility of work and family. [[Abg. May. Worm: Carnation money students are also there!]] We have invested very, very much in education – here our Federal Minister Gehrer is to thank – and we have more maturants than ever before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm:... that's what you should say when you dye!]] The education of women is also an important area, Mrs Colleague! We will also create – and do so already – additional skills for re-primary women. I think it is a very important approach to improving the re-training and re-entry of women. There are also many opportunities for women in the field of the care offensive, in the field of social professions. I say this because there will be thousands of jobs there in the next few years. I believe it is important that we create uniform professional patterns here and thus also ensure the social security of women. Ladies and gentlemen! What is especially dear to me is more fairness and more partnership responsibility in the division of family obligations. I think it is important here too. Father's care – here it is necessary to divide family and obligations more justly. We still have a relationship – I would rather say: a misunderstanding – from 2 percent to 98 percent! As the German male study shows, it is 37 percent of men who see childcare as enrichment. This would give us a positive perspective in itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A study by the Boltzmann Institute also shows many positive aspects that would make sense for fathers to take more time for children, including for educational reasons. [[Abg. May. Worm: Why don't you do it, in your opinion?]] But I also think and am convinced that there are too few laws here alone. [[Abg. May. Worm: Too little money makes the women!]] Mrs. Colleague! We also need a rethinking, and that is why it is important to advertise a rethinking in the minds of people, a rethinking in the minds of men and women. Only then will something change in this sense. [[Abg. May. Worm: Start with the men over there! A survey at the ÖVP club would be interesting!]] You still allow me a final sentence in the sense of gender mainstreaming, because Mrs. Colleague Glawischnig is here: In their contribution to the debate last week, they have doubts as to whether there will be an accompanying review of the reform measures. It'll come! I also think it is important to see the impact of the reforms on women and men. The fact is that both tax reform and pension reform benefit in particular lower incomes and therefore also women. I think that's right. But we need more ropes among women across party borders. Let's do better ropes, ladies and gentlemen, across party borders! [[Abg. May. Worm: Network!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] We also need more lobbying for all these areas in which there are shortcomings. I also invite the men to help eliminate injustices. I say it again: We need, above all, a rethinking in society, towards more partnership and more common responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7754	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7772	Mr President. High house! In particular: Dear ladies and gentlemen, who are so happy to see me at the speaker's desk that this will be commented on in advance! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You misinterpret this!]] Of course: Dear Mrs Rauch-Kallat, who is your title by the Minister of Women! According to the title – because at least in the first hundred days of your management, I have not been able to experience you actively as a woman minister. [[Abg. Steibl: Did you sleep? ...or you'll give speeches, and then you'll go out!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I can understand that in a black and blue government team as Secretary General, so much discipline was needed – perhaps a discipline limited to self-denial – that it is difficult to get out of this role. But, Mrs. Minister, I expect someone in this department to represent the interests of women, to act as women's minister and as rulers, and not as a health or life advice for women in all situations of life, with good but relatively inefficient tips. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let me take a more concrete look at those measures that have so far been found out. I am now looking forward to the good advice on health care, as you have told us during the “press hour” – because I hope that health policy will not be limited to saying: dear people, do more climbing than driving lifts; thank you for this information already had Austria! – but I am referring to what measures you are planning, for example, to close the income shears. [[Abg. Steibl: That was a good “press hour ”!]] I have tried to question you several times in the Committee, and I have listened very carefully to your comments. So far, a single measure has become known to me, Mrs Minister: They are planning an information fund for a seminar for mothers in the context of the new edition of the Mother-Child Pass, on how to use the child care phase for qualification and further training. First of all, I would be interested to see if this seminar would automatically offer babysitting to mothers and whether you would not be in conflict with the other ideology of the ÖVP, which says: No child care by persons other than the mother in the first three years of life, perhaps just the father! - Who says that? [[Abg. Miedl: So it's unheard...!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Who says that?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – I could quote you members of your government team who explained to me: Extraordinary childcare is not in question for ideological reasons. [[Abg. Steibl: This is not worthy of a Member!]] [[Abg. Miedl: It's unheard of!]] That was still the then Klubobmann Strasser in the ÖVP Lower Austria – greetings to him! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I would be interested in how to reduce the income sheath by saying: Dear women, you now have a lot to do with child care – who of you once had a infant, can sing songs about how “relaxing” and “relaxing” can be this time often – and then you should continue to train and see that you do not lose contact with the employer! This will become difficult, and this will, in particular, contribute to the efficient reduction of income differences between men and women. Secondly, I asked you how you would like to deal with the budget resources in your department. This is not quite impenetrable if you know that about €5 million a year, i.e. 1 percent of the budget budget, are there to achieve the high goal of abolishing all forms of discrimination against women. I mean, to trust, to add such a thing, is already a source of some courage. You answered me when I wanted to know how you wanted to do this at €5 million a year: It is great that despite the budget consolidation, the 5 million have not been cut. – Well, I think so; an increase would have been even more great. [[Federal Minister for Smoking: 11 per cent!]] However, this has not yet answered the question of how they want to eliminate discrimination against women. You don't really give this answer either, you just say: Women's policy is a cross-sectional matter. – Mrs Minister, we already knew that! Mrs Minister, I expect a woman's minister to write more than appeals and letters to the government colleagues, with no special emphasis to be placed on this. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Why I don't think there's any special emphasis on this, let me also document it. We have talked about gender mainstreaming several times, and my previous speaker has now announced a great deal: There will be gender mainstreaming for pension reform and tax reform, but afterwards! – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the meaning and purpose of gender mainstreaming is to examine in advance whether there is a further distortion of gender-specific effects in order to be able to counter-tax – but not so that one might be confirmed afterwards that the fears were correct that women would be made much worse by this pension reform! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But what does the Minister of Women say about gender mainstreaming in the budget? . She explains to me that this year there was only a very short period of time for the technical work carried out during the transfer of the women's budget to a new ministry and the introduction of the new budget data in the central computer of the Ministry of Finance, so that it was not possible to implement the projects for 2003 and 2004, et cetera. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs. Minister! First of all, I find the argument of data input as a reason why you could not make gender mainstreaming self-explaining: this is poor! Secondly, you may have misunderstanded something if I read it correctly, or I have misunderstanded your answer somewhere. [[Abg. Grandruck: Dear!]] But it wasn't about the women's budget. I didn't want a gender mainstreaming of the women's budget, I wanted a gender mainstreaming of the total budget. Because this has a very, very different effect on men and women! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I know that a woman's minister in his own government often has great difficulties in persuading herself, especially if she does not always strongly represent the party line outside, and not only does she speak beautifully, that women are fine anyway. I remember that woman minister who said: A dedicated women's minister is always in his own party opposition. I therefore turn to a chapter for which you yourself are responsible, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, namely, health. As a minister, you would have every opportunity and every hand to ensure that women's interests are taken into account accordingly. They are also among those who often and gladly point out to the public that women in medical care are much better than men; the words “precautions” and “hypochonder” were found again on Sunday in the “press hour”. But what are you doing? – Those who go to the doctor in good time will be disproportionately burdened on self retention! On the other hand, it is another fact that in Austria, as we may see from the studies that have been discussed in the media recently, women are worse in medical care, especially in intensive medical care, and that they are anyway disadvantaged and in the hierarchy below. Mrs. Minister, that's where you'd be asked! But what did you tell me about this in the committee? – No, these discriminations do not exist in Austria at all, and it is more important to make a difference in the authorisation of medicinal products because they are treated separately by men and women. – No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Finally, let me refer to the statements made by my predecessor and to her wishes for men's advice. – Madam honourable Member, I have no problem at all if there is an effective, emancipating man's advice in Austria, for example, by consulting and accompanying violent perpetrators accordingly, so that they are not more violent and suffer in their environment. However, if the money for this men's advice is not spent at all on what I have described now – let's be honest, that's not the program at present! – and, secondly, that pot, which was actually devoted to women’s advice, namely, to advice agencies to combat the systematic discrimination and discrimination against women under our social system, it will be worse. I should like to point out to you that there is a reason why there are women's and girls' advisory services: because women are structurally disadvantaged, because they earn less, have fewer opportunities, have fewer opportunities, and therefore try to counter them via additional advisory services. That is why we cannot compare this and say that, because there is a women's advisory service, there should also be a man's advisory service. Take note at last: 52 per cent of the population of Austria are repeatedly faced with disadvantages over long distances, and not all of them do so by their own means! Even those who believe that they have managed to do it by their own means are apparently sometimes in a situation that I would not call without limitations as that of an all-round emancipated woman.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7980	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7998	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Address to my previous speaker: It is certainly not positive for women – and we will not continue to take action – only if they are polemised and if no direct proposals are made when sustainable reforms are only made badly and no concrete approaches are made. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Many suggestions have been made!]] Freedom policy is based on full equality and equality between women and men. Freedom of choice and self-determination is the motto. We stand for measures that promote the independence and self-confidence of women, we stand for measures that affect women in all situations of life, whether it concerns the profession and career of women or the compatibility of work and family. We also support measures that encourage women to take atypical professions that make it easier for them to climb up the career leaders with the same qualifications. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: You hardly trust in it!]] Unfortunately, it is still a fact – it was mentioned by a previous speaker – that 75 percent of girls still take three classical professions, although they have a choice among more than 280 professions. Therefore, I believe that actions such as the “Girls’ Day” or the “M.U.T.” project can be taken by girls in technical professions and encourage them to take a foothold in future professions, to set very concrete accents and to take a significant step towards sustainable women’s and girls’ promotion. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For the professional development of women, the promotion of networks and of mentoring projects is a very important impulse. This finally means that a traditional male domain can be broken through with very concrete actions. Ladies and gentlemen! As part of a mentoring project, I myself was asked by a mentee to take over a mentorship, not as a politician, but as a survey engineer in my so-called normal profession. I can tell you that it is very exciting and interesting to support young, committed women in their professional development. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the budget chapter 17, women and health, funds for women in 2003 amount to € 5.1 million, in 2004 of € 5.6 million, which means almost an increase of € 1 million compared to 2002. In reality, however, there is much more money for women-specific measures, as women's policy is a cross-cutting matter and in almost every chapter of the budget proposal. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Where?]] – Mrs Colleague to answer you immediately: There are special women's promotions in performance sports. There are special promotions for female and female education, which are located in the Ministry of Science. The intervention agency for violence and family is also a joint project, with budget in the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Women. And for child rearing, more than €913 million in 2004 is planned for child care. Ladies and gentlemen! The reduction in income scarcity, the increase in the employment rate and higher average pensions for women require a responsible women's policy. In contrast to the opposition, which always says no to all the necessary sustainable reforms, we adhere to a statement by Dante Alighieri. This is: “One” – and that is what I mean by you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and Greens – “waits for time to change, the other one” – that is, I mean freeman – “takes it... and acts.” – quoting. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that's the hour's commandment now!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8118	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Prammer. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8137	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It separates us a lot: what you understand under women's policy, and what we understand by women's policy, as you see women in this society and how we see women in our society. We believe that women have their own legs and that women also need the framework. They're not bitters. It's about legal claims! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Yes-noise and congratulation with the ÖVP.]] Whenever we talk about legal claims, suppose that's a pity, it's bad or whatever. The measures you are taking are very clear – I remember the hardness fund for pensions –: Get away with the legal claims, go to alms and bitterentum! [[Abg. Murauer: You're talking about the past!]] And this is not our policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: Where are your men, Mrs. Colleague?]] [[Abg. Steibl: Mrs Colleague, you have not read the requests!]] Mrs. Minister, I also listened to you on Sunday morning in the ‘Press hour’. [[Abg. Amon: (demonstrativ acclaiming) That was good!]] You know, at the beginning, when you became a minister, we gave you a chance and meant: Yes, there's a woman sitting there again, and this woman will be committed to women's concerns. [[Abg. May. Regulator: That's what she does!]] It is all the politicians of all the parties here and they have said that. But you didn't realize this opportunity! What you communicate is: You don't just care about this topic, it's bothering you! [[Abg. May. Controller: What?]] To convey this impression They not only convey this impression to us, the opposition politicians, but You're the women in this country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Controller: She has never made the impression on me! That's ridiculous!]] Whenever you become vague, don't say anything concrete, then it's quite certain about women's policy whether this is the labour market or not. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] I don't like to talk about the pensions anymore. On the one hand, you switch advertising on television to price how great the measures of this pension reform are, at the same time you say in the “press hour” – and we can also read this in the newspapers – you need a pension reform number 2 in order to finally charge child education times and the like accordingly. [[Abg. Steibl: Where are the SPÖ women, Mrs Colleague! The banks are empty, Mrs Prammer! Where are your colleagues?]] You know, that's not the policy that women in this country need. They have remained so guilty to women, for example as regards women's projects. That has already been mentioned. You, the government parties, have managed to cut 20 percent from one year to the next, from 1999 to 2000. They are not on the funding volume of the year 1999 to date, nor until the next year. Take note of this! In the meantime, however, the women's projects need more money. The rents have simply become more expensive, it is also up to women's employees in the women's projects that their incomes are growing in comparison to wage increases everywhere else. All of this is not your concern, all of this you owe the women. They are talking about freedom of choice, but this is a freedom of choice that women do not appreciate, because it is not about freedom of choice, but about the compatibility of work and family. It is not about one thing or the other because we know exactly that on the one hand the necessary one is not available at all – for how should a woman be able to choose, for example, for work, if there is still a lack of childcare facilities in that country? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: You should allow the freedom of choice! For example, child care!]] Mrs. Minister! You have been very concrete in the “press hour” on a very concrete question of the journalist Linsinger. On the question: How will it be with the childcare facilities or the money, the so-called childcare billion?, has been the only clear statement you have made: There won't be any money! [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Na bravo!]] This too is a very clear message: They somehow want to exhort, encourage or otherwise exhort the congregations. I mean, I mean, Take your ÖVP mayor at the nose – I almost want to say – and finally show them what they have to do! I am proud of our SPÖ mayors, because I can prove to you that the relevant childcare facilities exist in the social democratically run communities. They remain guilty to women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Of 445 municipalities in Upper Austria are two thirds black, and all have great childcare facilities!]] The list is so long. I can only say: In the case of women's ignorance, Mrs Minister, it is really not worth the name you are wearing, namely, "Women's Minister".
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8370	Mrs Rauch-Kallat has been reported next word. Your speaking time is known. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8399	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Prammer, I may really be able to assure you at the very beginning of my speech that neither women's policy nor health policy are bothering me. On the contrary: Both of them give me great joy, and I do it with great enthusiasm. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think you can not only look at this, but also read it on the results. I have the impression, however, that the SPÖ men are bothering women's policy if I look at the empty ranks and the attention you have given to your SPÖ lady's speaker. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes, exactly!]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Yes!]] Before I start generally, I would like to say a few words to you about the funding budget for women: It is incorrect what you said that the 1999/2000 budget was higher. In the approach, it was as high as it is now. What is right – I confess to you, and that was also very commendable –: They have subsequently turned from the consumer protection budget to the women's funding budget in a budget breach law. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Oh, that's it!]] That's commendable. Who guarantees that I will not do this from the health budget – in retrospect? Mrs. Colleague! Wait You're leaving this year, and then we'll talk about the budget implementation. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] But now let me come to health and women's policy in general. We have also used the budgetary consultations to comply with the principle of the Federal Government, namely to put all its actions under three principles during this legislative period: forward-looking, just and sustainable. We will ensure solidarity with this budget chapter – and we want to see the principles of justice, freedom of choice and self-responsibilities as well as health and women's policy – – – and I would like to say this specifically for the health and women's sector. Ladies and gentlemen! Under justice, I understand the harmonisation or harmonisation of contributions and benefits. I don't want there to be a two-class medicine in Austria. I do not want there to be medical conditions in Austria as in England. I would like to see a high-quality health system that ensures low level of access without regard to income and age, even in the future. However, it is necessary to make reforms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Women's justice, ladies and gentlemen, means equal pay for equivalent work for me. Justice means equal access to all positions for me, whether private, social or professional, or political. For me, however, justice also means the fair division of family and professional work. More justice in the division of family work means, above all, that fathers should be more involved in their responsibilities. We will call for this and we will call for it, and I hope that you will support us. [[Abg. May. Worm: What exactly do you do for it?]] – I can then mention the concrete measures, but I now have a limited speaking time. However, they will notice the actions. Ladies and gentlemen! The principle of freedom of choice in health policy means that I am becoming a customer-oriented service recipient or service seeker or service recipient by the passive service recipient. It means that not the omnipotence of social security or the omnipotence of the health system crowdes the individual patient, but that the adult patient has not only the information, but also the access and the freedom of choice that he wants to take advantage of. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This also means involving the additive medicine to the previous school medicine, i.e. alternative healing methods as a complement to high-quality school-medical methods; in turn, in additive medicine, this means, of course, compliance with quality standards. In women's policy, freedom of choice for me, ladies and gentlemen, means the free choice of life-making, the free choice of whether I want to marry or not, whether I want to live my life alone or with partners, whether I want children or not. But then, if I opt for a job and a family, politics will have to ensure that I can agree with both of them, as well as for women, as is the case with men at present. We will therefore ensure that these possibilities are guaranteed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: How?]] You, Mrs Prammer, have just raised the question of childcare. I had with me yesterday – not by chance, but by agreement – the President and the Vice-President of the Municipal Government. The President is of the ÖVP, Vice-President of the SPÖ. Both of them immediately told me that I will not succeed in dividing them apart. I told them I didn't intend to do that either. I immediately referred them to the issue of childcare facilities, namely childcare facilities not only in relation to kindergartens or childcare for under three years old, but also on combined models such as kindergartens – day mothers, especially the afternoon care of schoolchildren and very concrete on the longest holiday care of schoolchildren between six and twelve years of age. It was your social democratic mayor, who was very reasonable, who appeared to me to be very credible, who only built a twelfth and thirteenth kindergarten group in his community, who told me that he had made such a holiday care. From the moment he asked for 500 s a month, everyone suddenly had a grandmother or an aunt who took care of the child. Ladies and gentlemen! 500 S are, I think, conductable. That's what it was. Your social democratic mayor, who has made a great effort – I admit to him – but you see, 500 S are also not manageable for some, and then the Grandmas and Grandpas find themselves. [[Abg. May. Worm: Who? Who was that?]] It was Mr Vögerle, Mayor of Gerasdorf, in Lower Austria, to enable you to understand this, ladies and gentlemen, a mayor of your group. I understand – I will not give up, however, convincing you that it makes sense anyway – that he had to stop it in the second year because he did not have enough children to do so. That was the problem. That was his information, not from my mayor, from yours. Ladies and gentlemen! The third party is self-reliance. – Self responsibility, of course, means cost transparency in the health system and also a certain bonus system for prevention. Mrs Weinzinger, I do not think that precautionary investigations should be cost-effective, but rather that they should, of course, continue to be offered free of charge. There will certainly be no cost-participation models for prevention. On the contrary: We're thinking about how we can get a bonus on how we can benefit from preventive care. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For me, self-responsibility of women does not mean directly to the dependence of a partner on the state, but so much self-employment that if they become many years of their Life devotes to child care and care obligations, not to be punished for them, but to be able to acquire independent pension insurance. This government has set itself the goal of becoming an independent age assurance for women – something that you have not achieved in 30 years of Social Democratic Chancellorship. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly say something about the health system: We have put in the budget accompanying legislation some measures to ensure financial viability, despite demographic development, but also through the progress of medicine of increasing costs. However, we will of course have to follow structural measures. This means that in addition to the creation of medical care beds, a sufficient range of rehabilitation beds and hospice beds, we also need to reduce and convert the stock of cots. This also means that we need to be very creative in reducing the increase in drug costs: It is certainly not the case that increases between 6 and 13 percent, as they were usual in previous years, continue to take place. I asked everyone in charge yesterday at a not round table, but square, and told them that they should take advantage of all their possibilities. The increased use of generics, the work with incentive systems for the insured person or the mandatory use of an economic method and much more is to be advised to reduce the increase in costs by autumn – which in the first quarter of this year has certainly also amounted to nine percent by a flu wave – and reduce to an acceptable level. However, changes are also to be made to the system that the patient, the insured person, does not feel the insured person, but that brings more efficiency into the system. This is a better interface management between the stationary area and the established area, the use of telemedicine, a telematics law which we have undertaken for this legislative period, the prevention of double examinations, which are not particularly funny for the system or for the insured or the patient, and it is also a question of reducing overcapacity and balancing sub-supply, as is the case for psychotherapy, for example, where a comprehensive supply is urgently needed. However, it is also about health promotion and a health promotion movement. In particular, we will set up initiatives here. What does this mean for women's policy? – I will interfere with an active gender equality policy in all policy areas; I will also, above all, try to make the income shears, which unfortunately in the 30 years of social-democratic German Chancellors have grown larger and not smaller, smaller, both in terms of active income and in terms of pension income. [[Abg. May. Worm: Where were you?]] It is about the partnership sharing of work in the families. [[Abg. May. Worm: What has happened since then?]] – We will be happy to provide you with an opening balance, and we will see what we have succeeded in three years. Under the Social Democratic Chancellorship, it has so far not been possible to make the income shears smaller. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: What has been in the last three years?]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: In the last three years, this has not become better!]] Unfortunately, over the last three years, there has been no statistics, Mrs Prammer. If you can give me the statistics, please. I don't have her myself yet, but I'm gonna be happy to ask her. One cannot take advantage of the year 2000, Mrs Prammer, because that was still the impact of 1999, and the Social Democrats were still at the forefront. Of course, we will also set priorities. Of course the continuation will... – Oh, at last the men have come back to women's policy! [[Abg. Nürnberger: And where were you?]] I warmly welcome the men of the SPÖ who finally listen to us, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Women's policy will focus on the continuation of the focus on violence prevention, the area of empowerment and mentoring, i.e. strengthening women, the integration of foreign women in Austria and, above all, on women's health. As far as women's promotion is concerned, Mrs Prammer – I have already told you – said: We increased the female budget by 11 percent, although it was generally set at minus 5 percent in the Ministries. We will, of course, continue to support proven support in the support measures. This includes, for example, the intervention agencies against violence, which are operated together with the Ministry of the Interior and which are really very positive and blessed. We convinced ourselves that we were visiting Vienna last week. We will even increase the budget in order to make it possible for an additional plan item. And, of course, we will also promote new projects that fall within these priority areas. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that we succeed, and I am convinced that we will succeed in setting clear signs with an active health and active women's policy, which will also be measurable at the end of this legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8635	Mr Grossruck spoke on an actual correction; 2 minutes. They begin with the facts to be corrected and face them with the right thing. I give the floor to you, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8665	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ms. Ex-Women's Minister Prammer has previously misclaimed that in Austria all ÖVP mayors with Kin care facilities would have less or nothing at their hats in relation to the SPÖ mayors. - That's wrong! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: This is unheard of!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: She has no idea!]] I want to break a lance for all the mayors. No mayor in Austria can afford to take care of child care, appropriate care facilities, but everyone – I find that – offers the necessary services. [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Mrs Prammer, if you want to prove: For example, the Chamber of Workers in Upper Austria, which is not well-deserved to us, has emphasized my community, the municipality of Grieskirchen, as particularly commendable, and there is an ÖVP mayor working for all Greeks. And if you compare the prices of the municipality of Vienna with others, then we have companies outside of Austria compared to social tariffs!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8749	This actual correction was on the border as well as one made by a colleague from the Greens today. [[Abg. May. Worm: Really not! That was a speech!]] There has been a judgment of value, a valid statement with another one. Mrs Lentsch has now come to speak. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8781	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Estimated ladies of the “Women in the Economy” from Burgenland on the gallery: Welcome! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! ==References== In May, the social agendas were divided into two ministries. And whatever happens to me, and even in some form, is the applause of the opposition parties. [[Abg. May. Worm: No, really not!]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: This is probably too much to demand!]] There is now at last again a woman and health minister – and a good one, just as the women of the opposition parties have called for permanently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But what is the opposition now, Mrs Prammer and Mrs. Weinzinger? – They're making fun of everything, they're going down everything. I understand: It is annoyed that the Minister of Women does not come from the SPÖ or the Greens, because the good was so close. Mrs. Minister or Mrs. Ex-Minister Prammer, believe me, the majority of women have not been behind you for a long time. Believe me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Behind you not either!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the official upgrading, the budget and the two budgets for 2003 and 2004 show that this government takes women's affairs seriously. [[Abg. May. Worm: And what does the pension reform show?]] Despite budgetary consolidation, the budget for the women budget will be increased considerably over the next two years. [[Abg. May. Worm: Gender mainstreaming!]] There is more than 11 percent more for women both in 2003 and 2004. [[Abg. May. Worm: Grasser has more for his own advertising!]] Both together, the official appreciation and more money in the budget, shows: We take women's policy seriously, this federal government takes women's policy seriously, even if we do not let go of any provocation every day, just as the women of the opposition parties have made permanent, whether against men in general or against male politicians in particular. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: You are also a provocation!]] Mrs Prammer! I think it would be time for the former Minister of Women to be the chief abbot. [[Violent contradiction with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If I'm thinking about the mockery you've constantly overshadowed this man, it would really be time to apologise for him because he didn't do his thing bad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I just need to think about the childcare allowance that this Federal Government has introduced and about many other things more. In contrast, I hardly understand anything about the three Ministers of Women of the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Prammer: What are you saying?]] This federal government is making a women's policy that is truly tangible. The usual activism, which the opposition parties have permanently listed, will fall away from us. But our new Federal Minister, Maria Rauch-Kallat, will move a lot for the women of this country in the future, because that her women's policy has been at her heart, she has been showing since she was in politics.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8966	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speech time: 7 minutes; is adjusted as desired. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8984	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It burns me directly on my lips to add a verbal supplement to the statements made by Mr Lentsch. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Excuse yourself at the head!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have not been made clear: Do we need a male women's minister now, or is it enough for you to be a female woman's minister? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: He doesn't understand!]] Mrs Lentsch, you have a right: The gender alone does not yet say anything about the quality of work, and this should not yet be a judgment on the Minister for Women's Smoking. However, if the work of a woman minister starts with the fact that, instead of working for public pensions, she advises women, if there is the possibility of getting a rich partner to provide for age and to make contributions if that was the intention of a new women's policy, Mrs Lentsch, then: Good night! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to say something about health policy, as I do accept, Mrs Federal Minister, and also hope that this will not be her only contribution to the new women's policy – I also know you differently. In all the statements of speech, even in those of the members of the government, I have not yet received any clarification from the Budget Committee on what happens to the tobacco tax after the abolition of its purpose. We were offered very complicated constructions: Well, the purpose is now dissolved, but the money comes back back from behind to the health pots. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would also like to hear from you very clearly and clearly how this should work. Whether the money from the tobacco tax, the purpose of which we decided only a year ago, is used for health care, comes to health insurance, on which devoured detours they are diverted or still returned. Second: My colleague, Professor Grünewald, has already pointed out in his speech that a sentence like that of Minister of Finance Grasser – We want to maintain and improve the tried and proven health system in Austria. – let's say it that way, it can be interpreted at any time. Mr. State Secretary Waneck, you obviously have a very concrete interpretation of how this should work, namely by applying Auers Basenpulver. This is not the head of the cabinet of the Federal Minister, who is also by chance called Auer, or the representative Jakob Auer, but “Dr. Auers Basenpulver”, a thing that obviously also gives my colleague Miedl a lot of confidence. [[Abg. Miedl: Both good men!]] Perhaps you are the same as the former Transport and Infrastructure Minister for PR for “Dr. Auers base powder” active? [[Abg. May. Worm: That seems to have something to do with the Styria!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Miedl.]] Mr Collegue and Mr State Secretary: They apply on the homepage of the Ministry „Dr. Auers Basenpulver’ means that you should point out that only the problem of acid rain has to be addressed, and that this comparison of acid rain can be applied to the over-acid bodies, which are obviously also somehow affected by acid rain or similar to the trees in the forest. So on the official homepage of the Ministry you are advertising for “Dr. Auers Basenpulver", although you too may not know that the consumer information association has been very successful for years in a persistent and persistent fight against “Dr. Auers base powder” leads because the medical effect of this base powder is not scientifically proven. [[Abg. May. Worm: The Homepages of the Federal Government have it in themselves!]] Mr State Secretary, you still want to use public funds to study this substance. If that is all, Mr State Secretary, then it is your special and specific contribution to deal not only with the acid rain but also with the over-acid bodies, but I really wonder if this is the appropriate commitment for a health secretary to clean up the health care system in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] ‘Dr. Auers Basenpulver” can be bought expensive and private, and can thus mentally combine the hope of doing something good for one’s body. [[Abg. Brosz: What does Bartenstein actually say about it?]] When the State Secretariat for “Dr. Auers Basenpulver’s advertising is about as if I’d come to the speaker’s desk here and promise you comfort and healing by laying on your hands. That seems to be about the same character. The laying on of hands can also sometimes show effect. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: But not yours!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: This is the purest esoteric!]] But health policy, Mr State Secretary, I am already thinking differently of the health policy of a department, and I am therefore also looking for information on "Dr. Auers Basenpulver’.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9159	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Dr. Bleckmann 5 minutes to us. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9185	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if it is your concern, I will have a conversation and then explain to you what it is like if it is a great concern to you. [[Abg. Oils: It wouldn't be bad!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: So how does it look?]] - Right now? Unfortunately, I no longer have the number of Mr Ex-Minister, but we will certainly clarify this. [[Abg. Oillinger: I'm asking for it!]] On the comments of Mr Öllinger: We women need, whether male or female, someone who represents women, and there doesn't matter... – Yes, the women need someone, whether male or female, who represents their concerns, not we male women, but we women to make this clear. [[Abg. May. Worm: What do you mean?]] [[Abg. Oils: Women are always female!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You know for yourself that even here in the House women alone are not enough to really spend women's affairs. We also need men to do something here for the benefit of women and to improve their situation. For us, freedom of choice is not a matter of either-or, when we talk about freedom of choice and compatibility, but freedom of choice and compatibility – both! – must be possible. – We distinguish ourselves from the Social Democrats, who only want to have the compatibility and do not want there to be a freedom of choice. So we want women to be able to determine whether they want to reconcile work and family – or whether they prefer to make use of the opportunity to choose only for the family and to devote themselves to it. This too is an option, and that must be possible! In this we are fortunately different from your policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also about making this choice possible. The first step we have taken since we were in the government was that we have introduced retirement time together with the ÖVP, so that it is easier to get a pension claim as a woman. There are now two years of pension entitlement per child. This applies to those who have decided to stay with the family, but it also applies to those who work, since the child rearing times are then also charged to them. – This is really an improvement for women. To stick to this issue: It is always spoken of as an independent pension and as an independent pension for women. However, this must not only remain a lip commitment, but must also be done in this regard. – This is what we have done with the facilitated acquisition of pension rights, but also with the fact that there are now higher pensions due to a shorter calculation period. This is also an important point: The calculation period is now reduced by three years per child – even in the case of twin or multiple births. This is an important improvement by the government in the calculation period, and I am sure that women in the government have done a great deal to ensure that this point is also taken into account. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another point is to increase the pension by 50 percent by increasing the base for child rearing. This does not happen from today to tomorrow, of course, but within a longer period of time. However, this annual increase by 2 percent from the valorised compensatory allowance rate means that the basis of assessment is already around € 950 in ten years. A doubling will take place in 2028 compared to today. These are also signals that you can't simply wipe from the table by saying that it's all good and beautiful, but it's not rich. It must also be recognized that first important and necessary steps have been taken especially for women. The next step must, of course, be that further measures are needed in the area of old age insurance. The next thing that is going on is, of course, the pension split, which is also a concern to us. In the event of divorce, it will be possible to voluntarily share the pension if a spouse has dedicated himself to child rearing. But I would also ask that the Women's Health Department be continued. This was a concern of the Prime Minister when he was a Minister of Women, and in this respect he can be very well mentioned in this function. The health department for women is very important, as one deals with the fact that there is simply a specific medicine in the women's field, which is different from men's medicine. It is important that this is finally taken into account in medicine. I would ask you, Mrs Minister, to continue this and to continue to work in this sense. I think it is a great concern for women that even in medical studies and in the field of health, general consideration is taken of the body of the woman who differs from that of the man. I am pleased when something happens, and I am sure that we may also be able to make it – as some woman has already said – to make a four-party request on one issue or another, on which the women here in Parliament will find themselves in order to be initiative and enforce something for women. – I would like that to be a signal to the women!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9305	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, The speaking time is about 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9324	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly say something about Mr Grossruck's actual correction: It's probably right that we have a slightly different view of childcare ideologically. [[Abg. Wheelers: Also in practice!]] They would like to give the women a little money, and then they should take care of the children at home. It's good that you're working for these women. That's what we want. However, we also want to give those women an opportunity to be independent and perhaps to pursue their career after a long study. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Isn't a housewife independent?]] Granted, some communities have financial problems, but it should be a challenge for all of us to work to ensure that all communities have enough money to be able to build up the care facilities properly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Isn't a housewife independent?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] - Yes! [[Abg. May. Molterer: But you just said the opposite!]] When we talk about the financing of the health system, there is no doubt that we still have your Chancellor's statement before the elections in the ear that meant: Contribution increases and self retention – not with us. – Today we know that both are coming! We will be burdened with approximately 2.6 billion schilling by the year 2006. You will also take away the cash registers in addition, although you claim that you are trying to maintain the best health system. The truth is that you are on top of it to liquidate the last good rest of the former good health system. You know that self retention has no steering effects. They themselves, as the Ministry of Social Affairs, have commissioned ÖBIG to compare the various forms of self-participation internationally and know the results that particularly the weak are affected. You know that, and yet you hold on to the self-maintainment. Why? – They want to abolish the solidarity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The alternative is undoubtedly prevention, and therefore I invite you to take care of it. You will also find ways to reduce costs. I also invite you to stop making health insurance more and more responsible for your failed policy. They are on the best way to deliberately destroy the health insurance funds. Three years ago, they began to burden the cash registers with more than € 140 million and continue this course. They also burden people. There are some interesting figures that I don't want to keep from you: Everyone in our country, from infant to giant, will have to pay €4,431 for the state. A few numbers in detail: The enemy number one of the Federal Chancellors, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, has recently been asked to keep his budget. He was accused of overrepresenting the costs of representation. Every citizen will have to pay 66 cents for the Federal President this year. – I think we can and should afford this amount. In comparison, the Chancellor's Office will cost people about 80 times as much this year. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: How many employees does the chancellor have?]] Since various representatives of the ÖVP have always meant that the High House should be or can be reduced by a third or half, I also call you the costs for this: The entire legislation – the National Council and the Federal Council, employees and infrastructure – does not cost even a third of what the Chancellor's Office costs. Each member of parliament costs the municipal citizen 0.066 €. – I believe that this amount is also reasonable. In comparison, however, Mr Finanzminister, you are always trying to explain how hard you are saving. [[Abg. Oils: It costs us a lot!]] For the debts made by Mr Grasser in the last three years alone, everyone will pay €58 – almost as much as the Chancellor's Office, the President's Office and the legislation together! [[Call the SPÖ: A madness!]] From saving kei- ne track! They burden people and at the same time throw the money out to the window with both hands. The pilots have been mentioned often enough. What has not yet been mentioned: They are not too good, at the same time also to increase the promotion of the parties quite properly. – Maybe this is the last attempt to reanimate the blue body. Ladies and gentlemen! You cannot deal with the concerns of people, and therefore we will not agree to these proposals either.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9488	The next speaker is Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. Preferred speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9507	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Dear listeners on the gallery! Once a bit for a change: In my considerations on health, I am quite sure that there will be no opposition to the opposition. On the contrary: I know, for example, that I have a "cooperator" in Colleague Cap. – Unfortunately, he is not there, but an apple has been served to him. [[Abg. Lentsch: Where is he?]] [[Deputies Mag. Molterer and Steibl: He's running!]] I'm for health through a moving life. Why do I trust this statement? – For 25 years I was active in sports, first as an amateur, as a top sportswoman, and then for 12 years as a professional sportswoman in an ice cream revue. What I really learned well when I had 400 performances in the year was the observation of the daily condition and the functions of my body. At that time I found out what really does me well, what I need, what I need every day, what I have to use in part, and what I should leave completely away – for example, smoking. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: The cap smokes!]] This would simply not have been compatible with the passage through a four-minute course. In the trade jargon this was said: That's when you do it. I still regret these experiences today. Today I am no longer industrious, but partly lazy, but a certain quantity of movement simply makes me feel better. I don't have to bring any more performance, but I wish myself a moving body today, which I have at my disposal and in which I can feel comfortable. That's also my way of feeling healthy. I therefore appeal to you, who are all much younger here than I am and you still have a lot of movement in front of you: Do this for yourself and do it for your children! [[Abg. Parnigoni: What position do you have for the budget? That is what we are discussing! You didn't say a sentence on the budget!]] That's why I also appeal to you: The gymnasts in the school are extremely important, but if your child is at home facing a passive static, the school Animo will not last long. Your example is much stronger than any other institution and not any other institution! – Being a little quiet when someone else is at the speaker's desk is also part of it! [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's not an hour!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You're about to take the turn!]] We know today from a wide range of areas how important it is to stress muscles so that they do not bother to burden bones so that they do not disappear. After each operation, we will be taken out of bed immediately to keep these funkti-ones in motion and our circulation will also come into swing. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But at the same time don't make the money available for it! That's all kinds of things!]] That is why I am very pleased that our health minister Maria Rauch-Kallatden has created Healthy Austria Fund. Healthy diet, more exercise, better relaxation, targeted stress reduction and accident prophylaxis: Very many points in this programme cost nothing, ladies and gentlemen! If you don't eat anything in the evening, it doesn't cost anything, just as much as if you're moving and climbing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Yes, the overcoming of your own pig dog costs it, and on these I appeal in many points! That's why I'm for a moving life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9645	Mrs Haidlmayr is now speaking to us for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9663	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Wendl, I too am for a moving life, but my moving life goes in another direction: I am moved by the fact that there are still so many shortcomings in health care and in general throughout the health sector, and we must finally address and resolve them! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, I would just like to address a few points. Firstly, the same right to rehabilitation. As you know, it is still not a matter of course that people who are disabled as a result of illness or a leisure accident or who have simply come to the world with disabilities have a right to rehabilitation. - They don't have that! For these groups there is no rehabilitation, and this is a great manko that we have been accusing for more than 15 years, with the result that nothing is happening in this direction. If at least I could say that there was a small step, then something would have happened, but nothing actually happened. It is still true that only a very small group of people really have the right to targeted rehabilitation, so that it will have the opportunity to return to and return to social life later, when the illness or disability has turned out more or less. There's no such thing as a lot of people. Even after strokes, the waiting times for rehabilitation are so long that it usually doesn't bring much more, if you finally get a bed in a rehab center, because, as we all know, it is very important and necessary, especially in the event of strokes, that rehabilitation begins immediately and not only after two, three months or much later. – Then, important energy and important body regions that could still have been rehabilitated are switched off or died. Mrs. Minister! I would like to point out another area, which is still unresolved, namely the situation of deaf people. There are three deaf ambulances in Austria – one won't think it possible – three deaf ambulances across Austria for 600,000 people with hearing disabilities! Mrs Minister, that is clearly too little! Someone who lives in the Mühlviertel can't go to Linz in the ambulatory, or someone who lives in the Waldviertel can go to Vienna! If someone lives in Carinthia, he must also drive to Vienna, “only” – under quotation marks – because he needs a doctor to talk to. - That's a big manko! Mrs. Minister! There is a great need for action so that deaf people can at last use adequate medical care. This also includes the medical discussion. The same problem exists in blind people: They can go to medical practice, but when blind people come to a hospital, they are completely overwhelmed because it is not yet clear to those working there that they could at least knock and imagine when they enter the room. Blind people don't see that, and suddenly someone stands in the room, and no one knows who it is. Mrs Minister, the provision of medical and ambulatory courses and, in general, in the stationary area leaves more than to be desired. It is still not a matter of course that mobility disabled people or people in the wheelchair may keep their way in the room. When I get to the hospital, the wheelchair is immediately taken away from me, which of course causes panic in me, because the wheelchair is a part of me that I want with me and not somewhere in a storage chamber. Mrs Minister, even all the medical devices are not built so that they can also be used by everyone. Try to ask what it looks like in the precautionary medicine! Even making a mammography just doesn't get off the wheelchair. Also a lung X-ray and many other investigations are not possible due to non-accessible devices. It is very great that there is now also the use on television for the campaign for anti-cancer screenings. But think about how few people can do this and how many of these investigations are excluded, because there is simply no barrier-free use of these devices. Now, if I look at the budget and the few things I could now list in the short time, I have to say, I don't know if we really have one of the best medical supplies. - No, we just don't have them! Mrs. Minister! There's a need for action. The money you now have will not even be a drop on the hot stone.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9745	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Speech time: 10 minutes. If you talk longer, this will be deducted from the FPÖ. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9764	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I thought the first speech of Mr. National Councillor Lackner was very remarkable. She also took place in the right place, but at the wrong time. He's been talking about restraint. – Self-retaining does not know this government and has not known it before. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Ambulance fee!]] We took back the only restraint. He has clearly talked about the 16 other self-holds that have arisen in the last 30 years as a wild growth, and where we are finally fulfilling this at the right time, by directing the responsible persons, namely the social security schemes, to make a proposal: - Keep it or not. [[Abg. Gradwell: They steal from responsibility!]] - We're not stealing from responsibility. It is about the following: The funding of our health system rests on three pillars: on taxpayers' money, on contributions and to a very small extent on self-holding. They all know that self retention has little control effect, but a certain cost-consciousness. However, self retention must be understandable and comprehensible and must also be socially balanced. – I still do not understand why, for example, transport subsidies are required by those serious diseases who require a rescue transport to their medical treatment or hospital, with a total of €3 million per year being taken up by all health insurance companies as a whole. [[Abg. Oils: Right!]] I don't understand for that. Social security schemes are called on to make a balanced proposal on which, of course, policy will have to decide. [[Abg. Oils: Strikes!]] I would like to say to Mrs Csörgits: It obviously forgets the wishes of the Austrians: 81 percent consider health to be the most important thing in their lives. It also forgets good old traditions of social democracy, which once very probably also has known a health ministry, but with the difference that today's ministry is also equipped with appropriate expertise. I also allow myself to say to the number of members of the government: A model country of a social state, i.e. Sweden, needs 34 ministers and state secretaries at the same population – we get half of it. On the comments by Mr Öllinger on the issue of tobacco tax: Obviously I have been talking in the Committee on Budgets for so long or it has gone down, but I have assured you that this money has been promised by the Minister for Finance at the moment when the budget has been decided. [[Abg. Oils: Written!]] I have always said personally: As a man of practice, it doesn't matter to me where the money comes from, from which mascherl carries it, mainly matter, it comes and it benefits the health care. For the more cabaretist impact on the base powder, I can say: A press conference has been mentioned here, which I held together with the Institute for Technical Pharmacy and Biopharmacy, for the special development of a base powder with selective-preventive effect, in which I said that a project funded by the Federal Government's Research Fund is being carried out together with the Institute for Technical Pharmacy and Biopharmacy. The purpose is to develop a diagnostic that allows a simple self-test. All those who work in medicine – you can be informed by the Green Group by Professor Grünewald – know that derailing the base acid budget is one of the most serious problems of medicine. You just need to ask an intensive doctor. Maybe interested. You the more, which are also our problems. If we look, for example, at the increase in stress-related diseases in our children, at the changes that occur in them: premature vascular changes, obesity, diabetes, depression, everything caused by our environment and our lack of care, then, I must say, we are within these health problems, and it is also the task of a State Secretary to address them accordingly. About half of 15-year-old girls today suffer from migraines, a fifth of teenagers and schoolchildren suffer from a stress-related anxiety-stress syndrome and develop symptoms as they are known in adults as burnout syndrome. However, I believe that we are very much in agreement here and will all agree that our health system continues – and this is also the task of this government – to ensure free access to health care for all population groups regardless of age, gender, social status, health status and place of residence. This also means the equivalence of the standard of supply. We have some approaches in the budget, which, as I mean, need to be mentioned briefly. It is a priority objective to make effective use of these financial resources, which are not so abundant. We've shown this over the last three years. I can still remind you: It was forecast for 2001 that the social health insurance account amounted to €400 million or more than 6 billion schilling, de facto it was null. For the year 2002, the forecast was €600 million or more than 9 billion schilling, de facto it was below € 200 million. This has been done by the measures of the previous government and will continue accordingly. Therefore, a number of measures are planned in the future regarding the efficiency of the funds used, as mentioned in the National Health Plan today: in strengthening prevention, for which the funds have been significantly increased in the approach, but also in prevention away from health policy – whether in transport or in cooperation with AUVA and with the Food Safety and Health Agency. The epidemiological disaster plans, which confirm their need by SARS and have already proved themselves successful several times, also have appropriate budget approaches. Even in drug policy – and that is not a secret – the approach has not fallen higher than in recent years or in any case. Measures involving tobacco use – not least now, the signing of the tobacco conventions – are effective measures that do not necessarily cost money. In the future, we intend to ensure that young people under the age of 16 no longer get alcohol freely accessible. Medicines were discussed. For the quality of health care both in the extra and intramural area: This has already been partially decided or implemented. Finally, the professional laws that need to be modernised or, in part, are already in place, in order not to cause any shortage in these professions, which are so necessary for society. Ladies and gentlemen! It has been mentioned today that the Federal Chancellor has said that the future needs bright minds. I also believe that the future is not happening, but is being prepared in the present, and I believe that this federal government will be able to do so, which will ultimately be reflected in its success. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9858	The next speaker is Mr Lichtenegger. Speaking time: 5 minutes if desired. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9877	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I believe – we all agree – that we actually have a very good health system in Austria. For us, however, the question arises: What access do people have to this health system? – According to a study, among 75 countries tested, we have the third best access to the health system in terms of social justice. So I think that's a pretty good result. What tasks do we have here in this House? – It is, as I believe, a task of Austrian health policy to ensure that our health system, which is relatively high internationally, is safeguarded. We've done a lot of things. There has also been a lot of discussion in the Committee. Among other things, we are dealing with food supplements, which will be subject to a comprehensive structural reform by the food authority in autumn 2003. It will also be passed by our State Secretary in 2004 by our own food hygiene law. The topic of health is a very comprehensive subject. In my view, something that should be very important to us is prevention, not only for the boys, but in general. There are really three major problems in the drug prevention: Nicotine, drugs and alcohol. Nicotine has been mentioned before. Some 2.3 million Austrians resort to the cigarette, in some 14,000 cases this ends with death. There's, like I mean, a relatively big need. A big step in the right direction is the ban on advertising which will enter into force as soon as 40 of the 192 Member States of the WHO have ratified this law. Another problem: We also constantly fight in performance sports with doping problems that are very difficult to deal with. The Committee has received a request from Mr Maier and Mr Moser from the Greens that more should be examined. This will also be initiated by the Food Authority in autumn. On the one hand, Mrs Moser is very concerned about doping and about doping in food supplements, on the other hand, I refer to Mr Brosz from the same group, namely the Greens. We know from the Greens that they are very much interested in legalising cannabis. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Decriminalisation!]] There is even a big announcement on the homepage: The solemn opening of the first Austrian hashtrafik by the Deputies to the National Council Dieter Brosz. I do not want to interfere with other political groups. As far as I'm aware, Dieter Brosz is also a sports speaker. I don't think it's a good combination when the sports spokesman of a party in the public solemnly opens up the first Austrian hashtrafik, where we have a very big doping problem in sport anyway. In this respect, we should be aware of our responsibility as a politician and also as a health politician and sports politician that this is not in the sense of youth. We should stop that, as I mean. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that Mr Oellinger has an idea of finances and budgets, but I do not think he has any idea of health policy and therefore not of the effect of Dr. Auer's base powder or any base powder. Obviously, he trusts cannabis more than the base powder. At least I myself am an enthusiastic follower of the base powder. I can also say that even if there are no scientific studies, it seems excellent in me. In short, to the explanation: If you train a lot, the body oversaints and forms a lot of lactate; perhaps some will know what that is. To counter this process of acidification, one takes the base powder. Basic is the opposite of sour. The body has a certain pH value, approximately at 7.0, the value would be ideal. This base powder controls that. At least this works very well with me. Many athletes are enthusiastic followers of base powder. Perhaps Mr. Ollinger has never been in a physically justified acid state, perhaps he should go training with me. Then he'd see what that's doing. At any rate, I would ask him to comment in the future on those issues of which he has an idea, I hope for him, and not on health. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9928	Next speaker is Mrs Scharer. Preferred speaking time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9947	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This health reform is troubling. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr State Secretary! One thing has become clear to us from your remarks: They obviously want to stem from responsibility in the health system. They shift responsibility to health insurance companies. The fact is that by your measures in 2002 you have put 140 million € on additional loads. As the bureaucracy and billing confusion now belongs to the ambulance charges of the past, it is feared, ladies and gentlemen, that this government will continue to mess with the new self-retaining during the doctor's visit. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the end, the Federal Government has seen the insanity of the ambulance fees, but the consequences of this law are still facing patients and health insurance companies for months, because they have to repay the contributions to the insured. Instead of the €2.5 million you promised, for example, in the state of Salzburg, the Salzburg Regional Health Fund remains only just under €500 000 in revenue from the ambulance fees. With the introduction of self-preservation, the Federal Government is heading towards a similar chaos. This is a purely money-raising action, which brings only new administrative burdens instead of new benefits, but above all additional new burdens on small and medium-sized workers and our pensioners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You will see the desirable steering effects: away from hospital hospitals to the established doctors will continue to be prevented by such measures. And there will be negative effects in the field of precautionary medicine, simply because many of the doctors concerned will avoid visits because they simply cannot afford the costs incurred. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You talk about the coalition parties always so great about family-friendly measures and what you do for the families. – The existing health-related loads look like this for families: Expenses for dental regulation and replacement, travel costs especially in rural regions to specialists, cost of visual assistance, cost of medication and healing, day rates for spa and rehabilitation stays and hospital stays. [[Abg. Steibl: From the times of Mrs. Hostasch!]] Now the additional accident insurance, where it is still not clear what you, Mrs Minister, are planning with these additional resources, and finally the introduction of self-maintainment. The creation of a new hardness fund seems to be pre-programmed. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] We lack a sustainable approach to financing the health system, unfortunately it is not recognizable for us. Therefore, financial consolidation should not take place through reductions in performance and the general increase in self-maintenance, but, ladies and gentlemen, on productivity and quality improvements and, above all, new elements of transparent and fair financing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10013	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. Preferred speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10032	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in the audience gallery! Our health system can be seen. It is one of the world's best, even though Dr. Grünewald can no longer hear it. [[Abg. Steibl: That's it!]] But here, too, we face major challenges through social change. Minister of Health Maria Rauch-Kallathat made it our task to give the health care top priority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But that means something has to change in all our minds. Looking ahead, thinking ahead and not just in crises, speaking pain must pass us into blood. In the area of wellness, where the Austrians spend a lot of money – that is only on the subject of self retention – we have already done this rethinking. A key person in the field of health care is the practical doctor. However, he should also see his patients in a healthy state, i.e. during health tests, because then he can assess the symptoms and treat them more specifically in the case of illness. – I have already argued in the mother-child-pass examinations that the doctors who care for the children in the case of illness also see them in a healthy state. Another important point is the networking in the health system, including the data in order not to have to carry out similar studies in patients on a permanent basis. This saves patients a lot of energy and money. Mr Spindelberger! Calculations and actual expenditure of a computerised approach for social security institutions shall not be as disparate as is the case with the regional health insurance fund project in Styria. [[Abg. Steibl: That's the way it is!]] [[Abg. Steibl: That's it! That's right!]] I feel that communication between social security professionals and IT professionals has not worked. It was probably pre-controversial with each other. [[Calls and counter-calls between Members of Parliament Gradwelt and Steibl.]] – May I ask you to move your communication outside! Thank you. You didn't understand, or it was poorly calculated. This costs the insured in Austria a lot of money. Ladies and gentlemen! You can be sure that with us in the ÖVP the talk works together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I hope that those responsible for social security will learn from the mistakes, as the health etymology or the fact whether it works or not will be an important part of the quality, effectiveness and efficiency of the Austrian health system in the future. Cost transparency in the form of a personal account will also increase cost awareness. I am convinced that our Minister of Health will ensure that we will achieve the goal of our own responsible, patient-friendly, high-quality and efficient health system for the benefit of all people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10116	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. Speaking time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10134	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary, you know that the aspect of health is also central from the point of view of consumer protection. Mrs. Minister! You also have to take care of food control in your home. There is the Agency for Health and Food Safety. You have foreseen €31 million in your budget for this agency, but if you inquire – I have already said that to your colleague, Mr Pröll – then you will see that this is too little. That's far too little. You have budgeted on the basis of the legal basis, but check out and compare. If you stay on this basis and do not use additional means, then you are in the situation that you have to release and that what you consider to be a precautionary and conditional condition and overall as a health view, namely healthy food and guaranteed food safety, is not guaranteed, Mrs Minister! That's what I'm saying with everything. I can also tell you from your own budget figures that more has been budgeted in the past before you estimated your 31 million. I looked at it extra. Food safety was budgeted at €13.5 million, the bacteriological institutes with €14.8 million and veterinary medicine with €13.3 million. If you calculate this, then you come to € 41.6 million, and now you have budgeted 31 million. There is a hole, a gap that falls on our minds in terms of food safety, which is double when you consider that a source of revenue from your food safety agency, namely BSE investigations, is now running out. That was a good source of intake for you, for the local laboratories, for veterinary medicine in Mödling et cetera. This money will no longer flow, and They will have to be created or locked from other means. We don't want that! And we see that this budgetary policy in food safety is totally counterproductive on what you want to say over and over again in terms of health policy and on health policy. Mr. State Secretary Waneck! We have also discussed food safety in the Committee on Food Safety with a view to the revision of the Food Law. I asked myself: They are planning to adapt to an EU directive. That's too little. Work on the mankos, the deficits, the failure of Mr. Haupt, because the veterinary drug control law is not working at all – I have just asked myself about this. Please do not make any adjustments, but continue to develop the Food Law by autumn! As my speaking time is more or less limited, I would like to leave it with these purely budgetary and purely health-careing comments and I am looking forward to your implementation activities, because it ultimately matters precisely.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10174	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10192	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! In my opinion, the issue of health is very closely linked to the subject we have already discussed this morning, namely agriculture. Health and nutrition are very closely related, and I am convinced that the basis for good functioning public health should also have the focus in the diet. There are some to not say many examples. I would like to draw some out by which one sees that one can also live this system, and by which one can clearly recognize the contexts. I mention the example of school milk. It is very important that the children are eaten in kindergartens, in public schools, but also in secondary schools with school milk. And as an agricultural representative, I would like to say that it would also be desirable if there were close cooperation with regional distributors, with regional direct marketers, because, so to speak, we could hit two flies with one blow. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But also in hospitals, in old-age homes, the topic of nutrition is very important. There is a lot of money, as many millions of euros are put in different tools, in various instruments and facilities. We could focus on a healthy and reasonable diet from the region, with organic food, so that we could probably save a lot of money with very little effort – the follow-up costs. The next issue in this area of a practical health policy – from this point of view, I would like to look at it today – is the preservation of small regional hospitals. I'm drawing on Carinthia as an example. In Carinthia, together with health minister Herbert Haupt, together with the head of state and also together with the representatives of SPÖ in Carinthia, we have achieved that we have received all regional hospitals. We have received all the small hospitals. And I believe that this is another proof of the need to focus on rural areas, for example by opening a lymphatic clinic or focusing on psychosomatics. On the one hand, you can obtain bed linen in an area where you urgently need it, because for a woman before birth, or for a person who has suffered a work accident, it is not very pleasant to buy hundreds of miles to the next hospital, so if you are very lan- the routes of access. On the other hand, one sets priorities with which one can also receive hospitals. Finally, on women's policy, because it concerns health and women: Although I am convinced – the very verifiable views of the Greens will give me the right – that there are probably far more well-founded ladies, but thank God there are also gentlemen here in this House who could give a far more profound opinion of themselves, but – and I would like to say that too – it is often good to hear an opinion far away from the dissident thinking of a women's policy. I think it is also very good if you leave this operational blindness a little away and try to bring opinions from outside. In conclusion, I should like to make a statement on women's policy: Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! My precious ladies on top of the crowd! For me – I emphasize: for me – women do not need their own women's ministers, for me women do not need institutions that are always prepared to force or bring about their equal rights. For me, women also do not need particularly ambitious and emancipated mandaters who want to achieve this equality, because, ladies and gentlemen, for me, women are equal partners in all situations of life – whether in employment, politics or family. I would like to make that very clear. As proof that I also live this equality, I would have liked to congratulate Mrs Trunk – unfortunately, she is not in the hall, perhaps you can do it – from this point on my behalf, but also on behalf of the Freedom Party for her birthday today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10249	The next speaker is Mr Spindelberger. Preferred speaking time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10268	Ladies and gentlemen! It really hurts me when I look at the political procedure of the last hours, days and weeks. If I look at this from the point of view of a voters or voters in Austria, I have to say that they have to be disintegrated because, with better knowledge, they are making a policy that, without exception, is burdening workers and employees in our country. That's not going to be a cow's skin anymore, so I have to say it in good steiric. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Not enough that you decided on a pension reform last week, which more than upsets the Austrians their future pension, you will also introduce additional self-retains from the year 2005. I think you sometimes don't know what you're doing here. Without exception, you insist your policy to burden the workers, the employees, the sick, and if I hear you from the panel in this house, I often think I'm at the wrong event. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think that's why I'm at the wrong event because They state here that they are making a policy for the brave, the little, the discreet, but then they adopt laws that aim exactly at the opposite. This is schizophrenic for me. You know as well as I do that these additional restraints for the sick – Mrs Minister, I have already told you – do not do anything at all, and you know very well that the ASVG insurers are already paying 1 billion of self-retainers. Dr. Rasinger mentioned it again today: We have a financing problem, which is true; but why not at last address the good proposals on our part? I wonder, Are you afraid of the pharmaceutical or pharmacy lobby? Are you afraid to sit down and say that we are reducing drug prices on EU level, or are you afraid of the lobbyism of entrepreneurs? Why do it? You're not against black entrepreneurship? Why do it? You're not against the employer's debt? – It would be appropriate to take the necessary measures now and not to constantly burden the small people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Again: All international studies clearly show that 20 to 30 percent of patients are stopped to go to the doctor, and despite this awareness, you introduce self retention. It's not acceptable! If you're going to make reforms, you're not going to mess up as much as the last three and a half years, because that's not responsible for me, and it's already bordering on – listen to me! - Liability! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl]] Except empty words, nothing! If the woman minister says on television: If you prefer to eat black bread instead of white bread, then I can only say if that is the only thing you think of in health policy: Good night, Austria! This is a policy of inability which the Austrians did not deserve. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you're dealing with the most important good of people, of health, so, ladies and gentlemen, then I have to say, you've lost nothing on the government bank!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10343	The next speaker is Mrs Grander. Preferred speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10361	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The reform of health care is a major work. Health reform is a good way to ensure a high quality system in the long term. I think that's one of the major tasks that's needed. Cost participations have already been addressed. As of 2005, not only will new fees be added, but some will also be replaced. The form in which this is introduced will be negotiated, according to my information, with the social partners and the self-management of health insurance. Finally, policy takes the self-management of health insurance providers seriously. These various proposals at the Round Table are intended to identify the best model that is socially fair, with chronic illness and families with several children not to be burdened. More self-responsibility for health is a major concern. The Austrians are to be convinced, as part of a large-scale national health movement, that it is worth taking responsibility for their own health. I think these are goals that have been discussed over and over again. Being healthy is, as we know, an important desire of people. A modern, first-class health system must provide people with the following: If he is ill, he must be able to rely on the safe protection of the solidarity community in the form of a high-quality efficient health system, and those who are healthy should be supported and activated to prevent disease and to ensure his health permanently. I believe that we are on the the best way to bring about this reform of the overall health system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In short, women's policy: Women's policy – which I said last week in my last speech – is consistent for me in all areas of life. Now I would like to address the childcare facilities again and ask the question: Why isn't there actually the model of the daymothers in Vienna? – I just leave this question in the room because you know our foreign exchange is: Freedom of choice, which is always very critical and distanced. In the sense of gender mainstreaming, which has been addressed a few times today, women's policy has been anchored in all policy areas and ministries. The central issue of women's policy for fair income – equal pay for equal work and equivalent pensions – is at the heart of the work. It is said again and again that our minister had nothing left for women. As long as I've been using our Minister Maria Rauch-Kallatkenne – that's been in the women's movement a long time ago – it's like she's always been engaged in women's affairs. I don't even know her differently from the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] More fairness for women and men is needed – in this sense the policy of our minister Maria Rauch-Kallat will go further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10435	Mrs Stadlbauer! You would be the next speaker, but you would have to be interrupted after 2 minutes. That is why I am going to interrupt the sitting, and we are waiting until 3 p.m. to call for the urgent request. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10462	I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure Deputies Dr. Peter Pilz, Mag. Werner Kogler, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance on suspicion of suspension, gift acceptance and abuse (535/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10498	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 535/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The written question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10751	I declare Mr. Dr. Pilz as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10769	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We meet today for the third urgent question to the Minister of Finance within a week. [[Abg. Parnigoni: (in the direction of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser) Blass is him!]] That has a simple reason: If the questionable assumes such density, it is the task not only of the opposition, but of the National Council of any questionableness in the form of a question. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That this has become necessary for the third time only shows one, namely, how questionable not one official business, not three or five official transactions, but the culture of the office of the Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasserin total has already become. That's the point we're standing at! A week ago, it was a serious question about Eurofighter, and a week ago, we thought that this would be enough. And 6.8 billion schilling is not a small thing, even for a finance minister who is used to a very big foot in every respect. We were still in the opinion last week: The questions relating to Eurofighter need to be resolved, we ask a urgent question and we will use all the parliamentary instruments. In the meantime, it's not just the Eurofighters anymore, but now there's a new topic almost every day, since it doesn't matter whether you're going to the Internet and studying a website, whether you're asking for a consulting firm somewhere else, whether you're looking at the real estate sales, whether you're looking at the planned privatization of VOEST, everything's got a handwriting: [[Abg. Eder: All dubios!]] This manuscript is the manuscript of Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser, and certainly not the manuscript of a Minister of Finance in the interest of the Republic of Austria! [[Abg. Eder: And His Haberians!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I say it quite frankly to you: I never thought I'd ever get the website of Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser will study, and I do not want to lighten you with a embarrassing side of this website for too long, I just wonder what the highly appreciated Secretary General of the Industrial Union, Mr. Lorenz Fritz, thinks, if he insists that the funds of the Industrial Union are used to explain in addition to photos: “Ready to the ‘Oh Tannenbaum’”, “Sure a good blow” or – programmatic – “Between friends always good on it”. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Further: ‘Mobility as a principle of life’ and on the front page of the ‘Kronen-Zeitung’: ‘My budget figures are voting!’ [[Renewal hustle and bustle with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Then the first dangerous threat – of course not after the StGB – comes: “I am ready to serve this country for another 4 years.” [[Abg. Eder: Awesome!]] Finally, the programme statement follows: “Modern policy requires modern communication”. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's right!]] – Yes, Minister of Finance, but not if, under modern communication, one understands an improper mixture of private and public! That's exactly why it's worth studying this strange and, in part, slightly tasteless website! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein takes place at the government bank.]] [[Abg. Eder: The shoe seller! The sniper hunter!]] Mr. Finanzminister, you have the opportunity today to answer the question why you or representatives of your department have asked the Industrial Association to support a private website. In response to the urgent request of SPÖ last week, you stated that this website is exclusively private. You have to and should – and I hope you can – explain to us why you or your employees asked the Industrial Association for little money. But that's not the political problem yet. That is the question of incompatibility, namely: How to deal with an interest organization? Why order money from the head of the Ministry of Finance to represent interests? The following small question You will certainly also answer us: Did you also try the same thing at the Chamber of Workers and the ÖGB? Were you as extrapartial in your office as you always emphasize it? [[Abg. Eder: That's just funny!]] Then it goes on. On the private website, the leaders of a “New Economy” association appear. These three operators, including the owner of the domain, are leading staff and employees of your cabinet who have designed the website during their service, answered autograph requests and done many others, according to your definition clearly private, there. [[Call the SPÖ:Ah go!]] This, Mr Finance Minister, may bring us near another qualification from the Criminal Code, and that will also be to be examined. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] The next item is the following: If the information of the Industrial Association vote and at least €150 000 from the Industrial Association have gone to this private association to promote the New Economy and if it turns out that this website is worth a maximum of €10,000 at market prices, I ask: Where's the rest of the money? Where has the rest of the money been spent by your private ministerial management team? Where are the € 140 000 or € 200 000 or more? Is this the only club, is that the only account, and is that the only call to wear the wean pants in the industry or else where? We all want to have answered this point by point, Mr Finanzminister. We want to know why officials of the Ministry of Finance are working privately for you. We have another supplementary question. If this association is non-profit and therefore does not have to pay taxes, and if the information of university professors on this point is true, then if a private website is operated, it is not to be shared, because either an association is non-profit or it is not non-profit, then I ask you, Mr Finanzmister: Who, then, is responsible to draw this private association's attention to the fact that he may not have paid taxes and that he may have pretended to be non-profit in order to avoid tax benefits? [[Abg. Oillinger: The Minister of Finance!]] As with our first urgent question, Mr Oellinger was the first to know the answer: Yes, the Minister of Finance, of course the Minister of Finance! - Now, Mr Mag. Grasser, come into an exciting situation: As Minister of Finance, you have now been alerted to the fact that an association in whose board you are not sitting may not have acted in accordance with tax laws and paid no taxes. They will certainly be active on the spot and will examine how this association's tax performance looks and whether legal provisions may have been broken. We are particularly interested in this response and in these actions, Mr Finanzminister. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's a complex, but not the only one. You will also have to answer questions that we have not yet asked in this urgent request – for example, with regard to the issue of the “Falter” published today, regarding the company “maRtrix”, regarding the office Hochegger, and with regard to the suspicion that there has very probably been financial compensation from the Federal Ministry of Finance for the website. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Sure not!]] You will also have to answer these questions, Minister of Finance. This is a small area financially. Of what it means politically, it can become one of the crucial questions. Nevertheless, Mr Finanzminister, one question remains at the heart of the question – I repeat it and I reaffirm it! – after the Eurofighters and after the procurement of the total interceptors. You have the basic, the key question: Why has the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Austria, who has repeatedly declared himself the only fundamental opponent of the withdrawal of the German government, why has this Minister of Finance done everything in his power to make the most expensive product in the tendering process? Still not answered! Why did you, Mr Finanzminister, not leave anything untry to burden the finances of the Republic of Austria to the highest extent possible in Eurofighter procurement? Why were you everything – just not the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Austria, as it would comply with Austrian laws? These are the questions that stand in the room, and today they are supplemented by another question: You have the offer collection of 10. On 1 October 2001 it was announced that all the inquiries were to be made on the request of the Commission by 16 October 2001 at the latest. January 2002 must be addressed in writing exclusively to the Department of Shopping at the Ministry of Defence. It is then subsequently pointed out that a breach of this provision could lead to the withdrawal of the offer from the examination procedure. Mr Finanzminister! This document is also located on your table, but still you have met regularly with representatives of EADS, but you have discussed the offer regularly with them contrary to the terms of the invitation to tender. In the meantime, we know that probably the legal situation has occurred through your EADS contacts, which means that the EADS offer – that is, the Eurofighter – needs to be eliminated from the award. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In short, something about the political culture in which the whole thing is dealt with: If you recall the last two urgent questions in this causa, then you will know that – particularly the representatives of the government parties – it was possible to remember during the course of the explanatory statement and debate that it was not about any of the questions that were meant to force political debates, but about precise, urgent questions that were to be answered by a minister and could not be answered in general. In the first two urgent questions, the representatives of the government parties have still chosen the strategy of defending, as far as possible walling, as far as possible to help the Minister of Finance. Today, they see that this is already out of chance. Today, therefore, they have clearly agreed to act as if they were not sitting in the National Council, but in a coffee house. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The only thing that's still missing is that you end up with Write your coffees on an invoice and send them to the Ministry of Finance so that this is also paid out of taxpayers' money, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer. This is the new government culture! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If you can't answer any more, you'll just be organized to step in, talk organized, listen away! . But, Mrs Partik-Pablé, you can put your ear in the ears because of me, but our questions are still going through, but our questions are still being heard in public, but our questions are either answered by the Minister of Finance or not answered! Today, we will probably hear false answers – even if you are reading and kicking and pretending that you are not doing anything about them – again get false answers, it will keep everything quiet again, but we will still come a step further and again bring a little more light into the affair grassers. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If you, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, believe that the ÖVP can hear away, then you will be surprised. Perhaps the ÖVP is not listening, but the voters you depend on are not listening to in the autumn elections at the latest. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Should I fear now?]] They just see you pretend you don't have anything to do with it. That's why I'm telling you: If we then talk about the results of this answer to the question and evaluate it, if we ask the question whether a mistrust request is justified, at the latest you will also be asked whether the accusations do not matter to you whether or not you are suspected of being pushed, whether the suspicions of abuse of office do not matter to you whether or not you are concerned with the suspicions of not accepting a gift or whether you are interested in just one, namely, a minister of finance that has been in the worst of the last few years, in order to keep any political price. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] These were times, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, when the states of government still allowed themselves to behave like a Member in the plenary session of this National Council. But to look away, to listen away and have nothing to say is not the motto of national councillors, but of a completely different genus, which has not only lost nothing politically in this House! This is what I'm going to get to the third area. This third area is perhaps the most uninteresting, but structurally one of the most exciting: This is the area of great friendships, which is the area of free movement, which is the area of mild gifts, which is the area where the New Economy will become the “Friends Economy”. [[Abg. Eder: The Friends!]] If you translate “Friends Economy” into German, Mr. Finanzminister, what is the only thing that really seems to dominate you from A to Z, namely the friendly economy – quite normal, quite traditional friendly economy. Who are these friends, and how to gather Do you have these friends around you? – On the eve of the opera ball, the Minister of Finance invites “Hungry” people to the Ministry of Finance, which Do&Co has to commit. [[Abg. Eder: “Poor” people!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Eder.]] But these “hungry” people with whom the Minister of Finance is per you this evening don’t just want to eat, they don’t want to talk about the financial policy of the Republic, they want to hear music! But the Ministry of Finance does not tolerate false tones, and there is only one orchestra that can guarantee that clean, correct and suitable for this buffet is played: These are the Vienna Philharmonics. [[Abg. May. Molterer: A good orchestra!]] Therefore, the Wiener Philharmoniker had to play accompanied music for the first time after 1945 for a meal in the Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Look here!]] Who are these friends? – Of course, Frank Stronach sits there, which the Minister of Finance otherwise has very little opportunity to meet personally. Of course, his personal Austrian representative is sitting there. But there is also a trustee there, who manages trust accounts in Vaduz, who has only one task of setting up so-called registered companies. [[Call the SPÖ: Here look!]] What are the seating companies of the Grasser friend and trustee good for? – Seat companies have a main task of anonymizing money! Why does the Minister of Finance reward a friend of money anonymizers in Vaduz with a meal to be accompanied by a Philharmonic? Because each euro “must have to be turned twice”, as Grasser once said, these euros also have to be turned twice and asked: What did that cost? What was it good for? . These and many other questions, Mr Finanzminister, we kindly ask you to answer today. This has a very important reason, and this is the reason: If a Minister of Finance is everything, primarily the Minister of Finance for Karl-Heinz Grasser, secondly the Minister of Finance for Karl-Heinz Grasser's friends and to no more comprehensible extent the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Austria, then you have to ask: How's that going? The Eurofighter damage is unlikely to be the last damage that threatens this Republic. If BUWOG, when it comes to other real estate areas, if the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft continues to do so with the Grasser's friendly method of cutting out the filets and then getting on with them: Jessas na, privatized all this is suddenly worth the five to ten times, that's wonderful, a great gain!, if that's the method, then also the VOEST will be and then many others will have to rightly fear it. That's...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11118	The final sentence, I hope!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11133	My final sentence is: Our task is not only to ensure that the questions in need of information are answered, but also to avoid possible greater damage from this Republic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11164	To answer the urgent question, the Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Grasser to speak. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11185	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Valuable colleague of government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for having the third time in a week to lead the National Council and also the public, with what ridiculous arguments on the one hand and with what inconceivable incriminating ideas – which I point to the sharpest! – on the other hand, work is done here. [[Call the SPÖ: You're going to lose that!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Violent calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can be sure that I once again appreciate the opportunity to prove to you that there is no basis for your absurd criticism at all, but that – quite the contrary! – my office is completely correct and exemplary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] One thing, however, is getting clearer, ladies and gentlemen, and the journalists too are starting to write quite slowly that the party strategists in social democracy and in the Greens have obviously issued, there must be a war of alternates against a very successful Austrian government, which has managed in the first 100 days to present two budgets, a pension reform, a tax reform, an administrative reform, a good part of the health reform, and which has thus proven competence for Austria. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, there is an opposition that says no to the work on the subject – the Greens announced yesterday in a press conference, they will present the green budget plan; it has not been presented! – which says no to the policy of matters, which says yes to the party policy, which says yes to the polemics and which says yes to the campaign against my person, at a level that I would not have trusted you. [[Abg. Eder: You can only wander around!]] But I can assure you: We will not let ourselves down, we will consistently continue this successful path for Austria – for the benefit of the employees, for the benefit of the economic and labour location. [[Call the Greens: Answer the questions!]] [[Abg. Gaál: These are empty formulas!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: (keeping the urgent inquiry in height) To request!]] You wish yourself a few statements on the request. I may begin with an actual correction, as last one: They say I would have answered incompletely and, worse still, would have said the untruth in answering a urgent question. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll hold on to this. I have, of course, first of all answered the questions correctly and, secondly, I have, of course, answered them in full and in full with the truth. Ladies and gentlemen! If you were concerned about fairness and objectivity, you would have made the effort to deal with the current account of this Austrian government, in the interest of Austria. [[Abg. Eder: (keeping the urgent request in the height) You should answer the questions!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think you don't want to hear it. [[Abg. Eder: Answer questions!]] You will, of course, also receive the answers to your urgent question, but the Member of Parliament Pilz has done so in his explanatory statement, and I was not concerned about the interest of Austria. Therefore, it is firm: First: Last time, the Federal Chancellor very clearly quoted Standard & Poors, where we were attested to the particularly high quality and the quality of Austrian financial policy and the high credibility of our financial policy, which led to lower interest payments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the Greens: Answer question!]] I would like you to see what we are doing, to have a second very great success in mind. [[Second calls to the SPÖ and the Greens: answer questions!]] The Republic of Austria currently finances around 11 percent of its portfolios in foreign currency: 4.5 percent in Yen, 6.5 percent in Swiss francs. [[Member of the SPÖ swirls the urgent question and shouts: answer questions]] The aim of this financing is to save interest. [[Continued calls at the SPÖ:Blabla! Blabla! Blabla!]] We have 300 million € in 2002...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11412	Ladies and gentlemen! You can't understand the speaker. I'd ask you to listen to him!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11436	In 2002 we thus achieved an interest-saving of €300 million for taxpayers, which reduces the budget and thus achieves a significant advantage. [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens, the urgent question swirling: answer questions!]] [[Lively condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me emphasize the second thing: This year alone, we have achieved currency gains of €1.2 billion – I emphasize: from January to March 1 200 million in currency gains – and therefore have to make less debt than in a euro financing. [[Recent calls at the SPÖ and the Greens – the urgent request swivelling –: answer questions!]] [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Further calls at the SPÖ: answer questions!]] That is, we work professionally in the interests of Austria and the taxpayer. If you are so critical, I am allowed to present another case to you, namely the case of the municipal community of Vienna, which is known to have been ruled by social democrats.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11501	Ladies and gentlemen! That's not how it is! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Violent calls at the SPÖ and the Greens – the urgent question swivelling –: He should answer the questions!]] We have the practice in this House, which can make general statements in case of a urgent request from the ministers, and which is linked to the answer to the question. The Federal Minister has now spoken for 5 minutes, and he will take another time and I will monitor that the questions will be answered precisely. [[Abg. Eder: And no answer given!]] I would ask you to respect the practice of this House! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder: He should finally answer!]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11563	Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to present you with the example of social democratically led by the city of Vienna. These shares had been exchanged in shares of the HypoVereinsbank via the central savings bank, so these shares were not sold in good time. The loss for taxpayers is currently more than € 1,000 million. [[Abg. Eder: It's not a fairy tale hour!]] This difference, ladies and gentlemen, should be illuminated once! This is a scandalous deal with the money of taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rada: That's a weak idea!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I can tell you: I have decided in my time to answer three budgets. [[Abg. Eder: Jealous!]] The target in 2000 was 1.7 percent general government deficit, we achieved 1.5 percent. The target in 2001 was 0.75% deficit, we achieved a surplus of 0.3 percent. In 2002 we ourselves assumed 1.3 percent, you estimated 2 percent, we reached 0.6 percent deficit. On the other hand, in 30 years, Social Democratic Finance Ministers have not managed to make less than 2 percent deficit. So we are making a policy that is clearly outstanding and successful for Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I could, of course, present our current account to you in a very detailed way, such as: Administrative costs: Saving: € 527 million in 2001, € 1012 million in 2002, but I am very happy to come and, of course, to answer your questions. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: (showing on the urgent inquiry) 42 questions to answer!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can answer questions 1 to 11. [[Violent calls at the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Wait a minute, what an answer is, and then you'll judge if I didn't answer anything. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can do the following: As the Federal Ministry of Land Defense tells me, free-handed award in competition was chosen for the current award procedure. This free movement of goods does not require a formal procedure in accordance with ÖNORM 2050 as amended in 1957. However, the principles of equal treatment and transparency must be applied to all award procedures of the contracting authority, according to the ruling doctrine and jurisdiction. [[Abg. Gaál: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Eder: False!]] This means that arbitrary changes in the conditions of award to the detriment of a bidder are not permitted in the ongoing proceedings and that the disadvantaged bidders are granted compensation for damages and injunctions which can be claimed in the course of the complaint. [[Abg. Gaál: You did that!]] The procurement procedure ‘subsidy hunters’ is a two-stage procedure, which is divided into a competitive and a negotiating part. [[Abg. Eder: He looks bad, Minister!]] The Minister of Defence took the opportunity to present the details of this procedure in a budget committee. The competitive part essentially contains all elements of a limited invitation to tender. The determination of the best bidder was carried out on the basis of a detailed list of services in which must and target criteria were defined, as well as on the basis of an evaluation catalogue, which was completed before the opening of the offer. Since the air systems offered naturally have differences – the Eurofighter system is not directly comparable to the flu system – it is necessary to create a set of assessment structures in order to ensure objective and transparent equal treatment of bidders. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: What questions do you now answer?]] Therefore, only all comparable performance characteristics are included and evaluated in this assessment framework. The bidders shall be issued on the basis of the determination of the cost-benefit ratio. This is a procedure that has been applied in the Austrian Federal Army for years in the award of arms systems. In these procedures, the price-performance ratio is assessed, simplifiedly, and the best bidder is determined. [[Abg. Eder: Keep us dirty, we can't!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am telling you this because you recognize that, according to the statements of the Ministry of Defence, in this two-stage procedure, as applied in the Ministry of State Defense and also examined by the Court of Auditors, it is technically impossible and practically impossible to influence the Commission decision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition to my answer to questions 21 to 26 of the urgent question from 10. June 2003... [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: That's your answer?- Oh, my God!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I will continue to answer if you want to listen to me! So I'm allowed to do this: In addition to my answer to questions 21 to 26 of the urgent question from 10. June 2003, number 501/J, I note that in the case of interception hunters with representatives of the EADS, a conversation was held by my side in June 2001. [[Abg. Gaál: Step back!]] There were also two talks with Mr Malzacher on the matter of grips. There was a conversation with the British ambassador on the matter of grips. There was a conversation with the Swedish Deputy Prime Minister on the matter of grips. [[Abg. Gaál: Step back!]] From October 2001 to 2. On July 16, 2002, as I last carried it out, I had contact with the U.S. Ambassador on F 16, as part of his arrival visit. Otherwise, I – and I stress this – had no conversations during this period and therefore not negotiations with any provider. [[Abg. Gaál: With the EADS Managing Director!]] During the two-stage procedure, I myself did not hold a meeting or negotiations in terms of interception hunters, except, of course, within the Federal Government. You said I met EADS's managing director. – I can tell you: You didn't do a good research. Mr. Bischoff is not the managing director of the EADS, but is chairman of the Supervisory Board. [[Abg. Gaal: Even worse!]] In terms of interception hunters, I once carried out the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the EADS, in June... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Read my last answer! [[Abg. Bures: You said you had negotiations!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] They're both perfectly coherent, I can assure you, because I've read them through before. I'm allowed to continue: For the first time in June 2001, I met Mr. Bischoff, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the second time in March 2003. [[Abg. Eder: Hit again!]] That means, on your question: When after the guy's decision on interception hunters? The answer is: in March 2003. Otherwise, since July 2001, I have not met any representatives of the company EADS in terms of interception hunters. I say to you again and again, in all clarity, that you stand out here and have repeatedly claimed the untruth that I would have met again and again with EADS representatives: Those were my dates! [[Abg. Gaál: Step back!]] I would ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] From my point of view, I would like to stress that, of course, at every stage of this two-stage procedure, the total equal treatment of the bidders was ensured. Since I did not have any negotiations with the company EADS until the actual negotiations took place in 2003, nor did I have any talks on military technical issues of essential content, it was also not necessary to inform the Federal Minister Scheibner of these talks. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Of course, I was in constant contact with him within the framework of the Federal Government. We have constantly held discussions on this issue, as well as with the Minister for Economic Affairs. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Questions 12 and 13 I may answer as follows: I also refer to my answer of 10. In June 2003, where I expressly held – I quote myself – that there is only one Council of Ministers decision of the Federal Government concerning the capture of a catch-up vessel, that is that of the 2nd. ==References== The proposal of the Ministry of Defence’s Evaluation Commission, consisting of 33 experts, was presented to the Federal Government in a decision-making capacity and unanimously taken note of it on a proposal by the Federal Minister for Defence of the State. Furthermore, as you know, the majority of Members in the National Council have already agreed to this proposal and decided on it in the context of the discussions on the 2003 Budgetary Accompaniment Act. It is true that I was originally opposed to a procurement of interceptors. As a result, I would like to point out – because you always miss out on this – that I have been very massive for the low-cost variant, namely for the procurement of F-16 Mid-Life Update, and then, on the basis of the recommendation of the evaluation committee and its exclusive competence, I have contributed to the purchase of the Eurofighter by the Federal Minister Scheibner as the best bidder in the Council of Ministers, based on the recommendation of the evaluation committee and its exclusive competence. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Eder: You fell down!]] Question 14: Also, I would like to expressly note that the assumption that I had intervened for the Eurofighter in this question is not applicable. [[Abg. Eder: The “poor” Scheibner is “debt”!]] As far as the figures presented by you are concerned, the Ministry of State Defense tells me that I asked for their examination, they are not comprehensible. By the way, I also refer to my answer to the urgent question from the 10. ==References== [[Abg. May. Kogler: The figures from the Budget Committee!]] Question 15: The decision of the evaluation commission consisting of 33 members and divided into five sub-groups was made 4 : 1 for the Eurofighter, which is why the assumption that the decision for EADS against the proposals of the highest military was simply wrong, according to the Ministry of Defence. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: This is the untruth!]] [[Abg. Eder: Incorrect untruths!]] According to the Federal Ministry of State Defense Communication, the Commission confirms its decision for the Eurofighter, inter alia, with the following arguments: In the Eurofighter programme, four major European air weapons are involved, which are half-future measures for modernisations and, above all, to reduce the cost of life to several potential partners. [[Abg. Eder: The smooth untruth!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: That's where the beams bend!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: This takes off your shoes!]] Second point: The technical superiority of the Eurofighter over the grip on engines, aerodynamics and flight performance is high. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Notorical untruth!]] This is not sufficiently reflected in the useful points to be awarded, says the Ministry of State Defense. On the question 16: The name of the association is, as you can certainly read from the press, “United for the Promotion of the New Economy”. Whoever is a member of the club is unknown to me. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is true that my employees Matthias Winkler, René Oberleitner and Fritz Simhandl are working in the board of associations. On the question 18: The owner of this domain, as far as I know, is the aforementioned club. Questions 19 to 22: On these points, it should be noted that my employees' service contracts provide for their hours of service, with the timetable geared to the needs of the Federal Minister. It was also, as you know, with my predecessors. That's why the statement that they care for my homepage during their term of service is not right. I would also like to point out that it is my staff's task, as in any other cabinet, to do political work. This raises the question: Where is the difference whether one of my employees writes a political contribution to a newspaper or does this in a new, modern medium like the Internet? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: That's it!]] For these reasons, of course, I did not pay private fees to any employee. On the question 23: I didn’t pay for the company “Lemon42”. On questions 24, 25 and 28: As you could read about the media and as I was told, the sponsoring was done exclusively by the Industrial Association. [[Abg. Eder: Look here!]] The amount of money is unknown to me. On the question 26: In accordance with the provisions of the Association Act, each association shall have its statutes approved by the Association Authority. The statutes can be consulted by everyone at the Association Authority; of course, by any woman. Whether or not this association is non-profit, it is necessary to be assessed by the competent financial authority. Reasons for proper taxation, including associations, are, of course, one of the most self-evident tasks of the financial administration, which I do not affect in principle in the individual case of audit. But let me say that, of course, in this case, I am concerned about a proper examination of the association. On the question 27: During my term of office, of course, I did not accept any gifts or give personal benefits from my activity as Minister of Finance. In addition, I would like to refer to my detailed reply to the parliamentary question of 9. November 2001, No. 3049/J. On question 29: I cannot answer this question – since I am neither a member of the association nor in any other function in this association. Questions 30 to 32: I cannot answer these questions either for the above-mentioned reason. I assume, however, that neither the ÖGB nor the Chamber of Labour have made financial resources available – Mr Vergestnitsch, who was last nighing. [[Abg. Nürnberger: This is the truth! That's where he says the truth!]] Thank you, Mr President. I was once confirmed the truth, that is also a reason to rejoice! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] On question 33: I answer this question clearly and clearly with zero. On question 34: It is true that autograph requests – in whatever way they arrive at me, whether by telephone, fax, conversation, e-mail, Internet – are fulfilled, with the dispatch by my communication department at the expense of the BMF. This was, of course, the usual practice for my predecessors. On question 35: Whoever financed the listing is to me, as I did when answering the urgent question from the 12th century. ==References== 550/J, not known. These ads were neither switched on the initiative of the BMF nor were the BMF involved in the graphic design. As I am told, Univ.-Dozent Dr. Christl has prepared a first draft for Professor Streissler. On question 36: I have explicitly pointed out that I have neither demanded nor accepted benefits nor had been promised, which is why the tax question does not arise. I would also like to stress: I have not called for, accepted or promised an advantage to me or to me for the non-compulsory or compulsory execution of official acts, or for the non-compulsory or compulsory omission of official transactions by another person. [[Abg. Eder: The reproach is not going in for long! That's mean! No one believes it anymore!]] On the question 37: As far as I'm aware, none of my cabinet members have established another club. I can answer questions 38, 39, 40 and 41 as follows: First of all, ladies and gentlemen, in 1998 my predecessor Rudolf Edlinger spent an amount of € 316 562,87 and in 1999 an amount of € 248 904,40 for representation. [[Abg. Eder: Yacht holidays! Who owns the yacht?]] [[Abg. Look at this!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Lively contradiction at SPÖ.]] ==References====External links== ==References== December 2002 from my page € 61 900 and in 2001 € 86 518 booked in representation expenditure. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Brav!]] [[Further calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] So that means: One year of Rudolf-Edlinger representation expenditure corresponds to the costs I spent in two years for these purposes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Perhaps, after you have completely distorted the facts that I have spent €27 million on advertising costs, I may also be able to inform you of the following: The advertising costs of Rudolf Edlinger in 1998 amounted to just over €3 million. Advertising costs at the Federal Ministry of Finance under Karl-Heinz Grasser also amounted to just over €3 million in 2002. – That means: Let's stick to the facts! With advertising costs I lie right away with Rudi Edlinger, and with the representation expenditure two years Karl-Heinz Grasser cost what one year Rudolf Edlinger cost. [[Abg. Gaál: EU Presidency!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have enjoyed the question: What do the drinks cost, what does the food cost for such invitations? I have made a similar request from the Federal Councils of Konecny and colleagues of 26 May. February 2002, No. 1909/J-Bundesrat, said that for the entire catering of this event, which was then questioned and mentioned by Mr Pilz today, costs amounting to €3 926.92 have been incurred. No costs have been incurred for the musical envelopment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The invitation was received twice on the eve of the opera ball, to international top entrepreneurs – whether they were from Germany, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg or overseas. Of course, there was also a top entrepreneur from Austria. On this occasion, my interest was only the goal of investing their investments or their willingness to invest, to direct them to Austria's economic location. I would also like to point out that in these two receptions official representatives, such as the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund Horst Köhler, such as Henri Grethen, the Luxembourg Transport and Economic Ministers, as well as Klaus Liebscher, Governor of the Austrian National Bank, were invited. As you can see from this, such invitations in my department are by no means frequent and serve exclusively to promote the economic and work location of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As far as Question 42 is concerned, I would like to reply to the Polish submission and point out to you that the successful work of the Governments of the ÖIAG has reduced the debt level of the ÖIAG, which I had to take over by my Social Democratic predecessor as well as financial debt to an amount of € 133 billion, annual interest payments of € 6.6 billion and out-of-budget debt of just under €20 billion – obviously a badly managed company. We have reduced this debt from more than €6 billion to below €2 billion. We will therefore continue this successful privatisation policy in favour of taxpayers and also in favour of future generations. [[Bravorufe and congratulation with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Excuse me for taking a little too long, but you asked me 42 questions. Finally, I firmly reject the allegations that have been raised as regards the suspension, abuse of office or other accusations. The BMF is run exemplaryly and correctly, and I would like to conclude by saying one thing: What you are holding here, ladies and gentlemen, is described by Aristotle – once you have read Aristotle, you know – in his famous work “The politician” in the third book, where it concerns the recognition of the state offices, as Eastrakisms. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The book is new! You didn't read it! The book is new and unused! You've had it read at best!]] Ostrakismos, Member of the Gusenbauer Parliament, in German is called the “Scherbengericht” (Scherbengericht) and refers to a procedure in ancient Athens that allowed someone to be referred to the country without being guilty of a crime. Politically speaking: You have lost the elections, you have not managed to bring down a successful government, now you are trying it with polemics and neglect. I'm looking for you: Return to the policy of matters, or the voters will punish you again!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12332	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. Speech time: 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12357	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have already responded to the 10 minutes, I would like to state the order in the middle of the order that the reply or, to a large extent, non-repudiation of the Minister of Finance has lasted 27.5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12372	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the Rules of Procedure provide for a scheduled term of office which the member of the government can cover at any time for a long time. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The record was made in the previous legislative period of 56 minutes. Therefore, this procedure was absolutely in line with the rules of business. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You are speaking again, Mr Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12405	The question referred to the use of 27.5 minutes and so much – and I say: obviously intentional! – can pass the questions. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the liberals as well as countercalls at the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If You now allow me an advance on a summary, then the fact that you may have learned one thing, that is, what “New Economy” can be all about. Get to Socrates! Obviously, there is a new agreement on consultants, because I would not even have put it that way, because it was all entirely by what was asked here. [[Interlocutory calls at the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] – Already a flight forward, which landed in the fat nap! Congratulations! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The next realization is that the concept – again in Neudeutsche – “public-private partnership” makes it possible for you to interpret it completely new. But this is obviously very popular in your home, Minister of Finance, because there are consultative orders in this matter too. We will still have to deal with this, namely, how there is, on a regular basis – and this is actually the main accusation – in part intentional or inadvertently, willfully, I suspect to be mixed with you – public and private ones. – This is simply unbearable with a Federal Minister! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This is the red thread that draws through your reply, Mr. Finanzminister Grasser, but that is the only one you could see here. In answer to a urgent request from the opposition or one of its speakers to blame that this would have been an “absurd theatre”, it can only be called unheard of! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The only absurdity in this matter is your understanding of office, Mr. Grasser – and it obviously also results in your kind of responsibility if you do not want to answer these questions in this way or obviously not! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] The only question, Mr Grasser, which you answered are questions that have not been asked at all. – But in the next 8 minutes we will probably approach this matter. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You, Minister Grasser, say about the Eurofighter procurement: free-handed award! Thank God you also said that this does not mean free-handed switching and rolling. – By the way, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are already there again – quite misused! – tried to get the Court of Auditors to play. – I can tell you: To date, the Court of Auditors has only examined the status of the tender – and nothing else! On the other hand, we should be in this House – since the Court of Auditors is an institution of Parliament and none of you – that the Court of Auditors is constantly being put into play here by you, Minister of State Grasser, in an absolutely misunderstanding way. This can no longer be tolerated! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But that fits into the picture: You, Mr Minister, mentioned that you have been working for F 16. That's right! But what is above all right is the fact that you, Mr. Minister, have just become a protagonist for the F 16 – and that at a time when the F 16 was officially removed from the offer and procedure so that you can promote it with a veto against the flu! [[Interlocutory calls at the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] This, Minister Grasser, is what we are going to do to you. – This problem also appears in other places. It is inconceivable that a minister commits himself to a product by saying that it should be as cheap as possible, and then in retrospect it becomes clear that the whole thing was not in the tendering phase at all! That is where we should believe, Minister of State Grasser, the rest of the answers.- Oh, my God! – That’s what you’ve disqualified yourself from the beginning if you ask me! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Let us come to the more hairy things: to your contacts and the completely unacceptable and any reasonable procurement practice, to meet with company representatives as Minister of Finance of the Republic of Austria, essentially from a company. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That's nonsense!]] – They always say that this was primarily the company representatives of EADS! It will be of little use to you if you, Minister Grasser, want to date that now, as if you had not conducted any discussions with EADS representatives during the open tendering period. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Two conversations!]] Let me give you once again the record from the last time. You said last week, Minister Grasser, when there was no type of decision for a long time, there were political talks to obtain information and more. Now, in connection with the capture, you have obviously smoked the “broth” and realize that you have clearly leaned too far in your flight forward, and now you just say no more: no conversations – I have written this! – for the withdrawal of hunters in open time. In your place, Minister of Finance, I might have said nothing else in the last need today, but one thing can be found: This is not in any way credible after all this drummerum! I have to tell you that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: One base after another!]] Such contacts are – somehow – inadmissible, and with them you have violated any reasonable practice! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grass: Unreasonable you are!]] This naturally nourishes the suspicion of manipulation, the suspicion of displacement – even if you don't want to hear it anymore! What did that lead to? – The costs that you yourself, Minister Grasser, have stated in the Budget Committee are now suddenly not to apply?- Oh, my God! – According to your own presentation, the alternative offers are an additional cost of at least € 1 billion, you said in the Committee! – But now, Minister, you want to “strip” cheaply! – That is totally unacceptable, Minister of State Grasser! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] A "grasser billion" – a "shift suspect billion": That's what the taxpayer's got to do. We could do so for 100 years. That is what I am telling you at this point. But the best thing about this is that you can find on the Internet the homepage “www.karlheinzgrasser.at”, a website that many already know about, only one obviously not, namely Karl-Heinz Grasser. – That is also, and especially, incredible, what you have offered here! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, in a single sentence, you have managed to say that the staff would not work there in their service time, but would somehow be active there – that is then suddenly in the second half of your statement – because, as you said, it could be compared with the work for newspapers. – All of this is extremely unbelievable! Again: This mixture of private and public is obviously your style! You may not understand it better at all, and this may be part of an excuse because you do so regularly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I am not surprised either, Minister, that you are setting up the advisory agreements in such a way that the stateman is made “private” for sluggish money.– That's obvious. Your credo, this is your principle, you have personally just internalized! That's what comes out! In addition, the following points are added: If too many statemen are converted to private, then there is a huge wastefulness. I'll tell you: ‘Euroteam’ – because you, my Ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP, who are so excited – is a lappaly against what is going on! There is a business of friends and waste – and to a degree that I would not have trusted you until a few days ago, I say that quite honestly! The problem is – and this is what we are doing with this urgent request – serial misbehavior of a Federal Minister! I emphasize: Serial Misbehavior! I have no excuse at all for this – except for the fact that you, Minister Grasser, have a certain tendency to do so because you do not understand it otherwise than to mix the private and the state regularly in a single "washing machine"! However, this has nothing to do with whitewashing! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] A minister who is interested in money is unbearable! A cash collector and gift collector is unbearable! It's too far! We've had friends' business and waste long enough here. We would not have given you this until recently, Minister Grasser! [[Abg. Scheibner: Talk time!]] Minister! After this presentation, pull the consequences! Privatize yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12647	Mr Jakob Auer. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of Desirable speaking time: 8 minutes; due time: 10 minutes. I'll set the clock to 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12669	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is obviously the opposition's new summer game plan: Cast the grass! – You don’t think any more, and that’s actually a bit sad, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Mr Pilz, you have put questions to Mr Grasser. – You should ask your own questionability once! That would be appropriate once, ladies and gentlemen, for suspect alone is too little, take note of this once and for all! [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Obviously this is – as I have already done – the summer game plan of Pilz, Josef Cap and Co, which was previously called “Seppi” by Pilz, as can be read in the Stenographical Protocol, “Dear Seppi” is here. One has now found a way back to the old friendship. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen from the Green Group, you have just been mentioned. This urgent request would have been a real opportunity. In earlier times, when the ÖVP and the Freedom Party were still in opposition, there were still There was something behind that was urgent questions with content, but today the urgent question – one of the most essential instruments of parliamentarianism – offered a rather pitiful picture. Requests of this kind – if they don't get better – you can save yourself, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Just to release air bubbles from here, we don't need you to, we can do better ourselves. [[Ironic cheerfulness and detonative applause with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It would have been really necessary and desirable to have an objective debate on what you are blaming the Federal Minister, but also on the facts of the budget, on the facts of successful work. But this would probably have required conscience and seriosity, something that is very difficult to reconcile with fungus. At this point perhaps also a comparison with the desired programme and the desired coalition Red-Green from Germany: How are these competitors, this wishful image that is always shown to us here? – As we know, it remained in the unsuccessful attempt, it will also stay there. But Pilz wanted to try it again after the unfortunate emergency about the interception hunters, after the not very successful urgents of Josef Cap last week. Walter Murauer has already shown it: When it comes to mushrooms' inquiries, there is not much on it on its leaves and there is nothing in it! But what is it? – A certain sluggishing is announced.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12741	Mr President, you know that we do not accept this expression. I'm asking him to replace him with another one!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12756	Mr President. It's a political sluggish. I'm sorry to have to say this: It's a political sluggish that happens here. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaál: Take this back!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If that's under the motto: If it doesn't help, some media headlines will be left! Then I'll ask myself, With dirt to throw himself, with so much political dirt to throw, what is this supposed to mean for itself? Afterwards we all complain again that the political significance is falling to a minus, then we all complain about the catastrophic image again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Tell me openly – say it openly! –: The pension reform has been successfully decided, the budget is in progress, the budget figures are excellent compared to Germany, the unemployment figures are best compared to red-green Germany, the health policy is always even better than in this country that you are so propagating. So there is nothing left to you but to adapt to one of the most popular ministers, and I regret that. The SPÖ election strategy has made it clear. Have you forgotten that after the election, he said it would have been a strategic mistake not to attack the popular Minister Grasser? [[Abg. Gaál: He belongs to you!]] Well, the reaction time is sensational. Now you start from the beginning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria is well on the way thanks to this Federal Minister, thanks to this successful government. Of course, there are also problem areas – no one prevents us from getting even better, that is not a question at all – but compared to your model red-green we are a model example, we play in the Champions League, we are world champions. The red-green model in Germany can at most compete in the Landesliga. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Budget Germany: blue letter from Brussels. Unemployment rates in Germany: fear. The headlines in the media in Germany: “in the dead end of the deadlock”, “new record” “300 000 workers affected”, “billionhole in the German budget”. The Finance Minister of Germany, Eichel, explains that his most difficult time has now arrived in the last four years. “This country,” he said, “uses a fundamental reorientation of economic, labour market and social policy.” Municipalities in Germany: inability to pay. – We don’t have the best financial compensation either, but we’re really great on the move in relation to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear. Ladies and gentlemen! If you don't believe it, here, for example, the difference in the federal states, state last week: As is well known, Upper Austria has excellent figures, Vienna is much worse. We know that's not what I'm saying. [[Abg. Gaál: Thanks to federal politics! Thanks to your policy!]] Interesting, Mr Gaál: If, thanks to federal politics, Vienna is so bad, who am I going to give thanks from the point of view of Upper Austria, do ladies and gentlemen worship? – I would be pleased to receive that answer once. In comparison to May of the previous year, Vienna has recorded a plus of 2 973 unemployed, Upper Austria a minus of 1,367. – As far as the AMS Upper Austria, no ÖVP magazine, so that it is also recorded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Also interesting is what Norbert Walter, the chief economist of the Deutsche Bank, says about how to help the German economy: Of course, praying for Germany can never hurt, but it would be better for the Austrians to tell them in Berlin what they can look away from Austria, because one thing is certain: We would also like to see a Minister of Finance Grasser and his policy in Germany. – I don't think there's anything to add to it, do I? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today, you have not provided the spark of evidence, the building of suspicions, assumptions that you had so beautifully built here, has, as expected, collapsed into itself. You, ladies and gentlemen, should go to the opposition, take advantage of the summer break, consider how to make positive urgent requests, but don't throw a successful minister! We stand with him – 100 percent! Take note of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12864	For the expression ‘drifting’, I give a call for an order, Mr Auer. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I ask for a proper discussion. Please, Mr. Dr. Cap.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12891	What have you actually applauded for? I don't understand at all. Do you want to give each other courage? - Okay, if you need it! The fact that the urgent question is more necessary today than ever is that it will be proved by the content and substance of this question and, above all, by the non-responsible, because it has been more than answered, and it is a democratic scandal that is being taught, reduced from the government bank, and then not answered the questions. That's really scandalous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] By the way, I believe that the state of the Minister for Finance is best through the list of speakers from ÖVP and FPÖ. There's no clubman coming out to the speaker's desk. - You'd better sit there, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer. [[Abg. Scheibner: We have more than two good people!]] Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner, you'd rather sit there! The Minister of Finance is not being defended. What Mr Finanzminister did was already reading a statement from his lawyer, which was not the political opinion of a Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This can also be read – also read – on very finely numbered formulations: [[towards ÖVP]] Discussions of essential content – what can that be? They had a content, they were very essential, they were half-essential? “In terms of interception hunters” – what does that mean? Did one talk about interception hunters or just “in the matter of interception hunters ”? A particularly charming formulation: during the ministry, “so not correctly. ” – Is that right now or not? What were the wordings, Mr. Finanzminister? She can't even have suggested to your lawyer. It smells as far as the ranks that something is wrong if you have to take such formulations! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The comparison with Minister of Finance Edlinger has gone beyond that, because that was how you know – and there the ÖVP will only be able to nod in agreement – at the time of the EU Presidency, there was an increased need. There was nothing to see from a private homepage. Also, the comparison is not true: If private home page matters are answered on the paper of the Ministry of Finance and if the taxpayer officially has to catch the post office, then this is a mixture of service and private. It's not allowed! This is abuse of power! That was finally stated in this context! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This brings me to the nearest point – and I would like to say this again to the colleagues of the media: There can be no equality in the quality of the talks when the Minister of Finance talks with the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of EADS, with the US Ambassador or the Deputy Prime Minister of Sweden. That would be a sand-in-the-eye scatter. This does not result in any procedure, no investigation committee, because that is not the same as the quality. One was the company representatives, and I would like to know what you have discussed with them, except about interceptors. I'd be more interested in that. Why should company representatives swirl around with you? They want to know something, they probably want to discuss something with you. – That’s incompatible! Take note of this at last! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Then the incredible chuzpe comes to tell us that the quality is the same when you talk to the US ambassador about the F-16 and the Deputy Prime Minister of Sweden about the grips. – That is not comparable! I would like to see a committee of inquiry so that this can finally be dealt with. I come next: There 37 professors will be called by Mr Christl, your consultant in the cabinet, and no one knows to this day who is funding this, no one asks. Suddenly, the ads come, and they're here. Next point: This is where the industrial association admits to the public: Yes, we have transferred money to the Minister of Finance for the enforcement of our policies. – What else is this, except for gift acceptance, please nice, with what do you finance your private homepage? Come on. You don't have stories like that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Of course, the industrial association – as a commentator of a newspaper wrote today – wants to reduce the corporate tax. Of course, it is interested in selling out individual companies of the ÖIAG, of course! – This is incompatible when money flows, Minister of Finance! [[Abg. Gaál: Step back!]] It can't be like that! You're ready for withdrawal if you want to make yourself here and hide it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Take note of this and don't let Parliament down like this, don't dig it down with that kind of answer! But you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, do not link your political fate with that of the Minister of Finance. Mr Auer has done this today, he has linked the political fate of the ÖVP with that of Mr Grasser. You're gonna wonder where you're gonna end up with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13009	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Speech time: 10 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13027	Ladies and gentlemen! The hate outbreaks of SPÖ and also of the Greens, their rechargement during the reply of the Minister of Finance, show what you really intend to do, namely to empty dirt over a person who has done his job well. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You want to ruin his reputation, and you just want to make him ugly. That's just your intention. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and also of the SPÖ! That is why I ask you a very urgent question, because you have not taken note of the reply of Mr Finanzminister at all. What he said was uninteresting for you. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Do you know how I feel? – Like an inadmissible consent by a police authority that absolutely wants to transfer a culprit. No matter what someone says, it is only what the investigator claims, and when it comes to saying – as honourable Member Kogler did – that: You have a tendency to do so! – No, thank you, for such an opposition policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You want to construct guilt where there is no one at all, and you are not even willing to listen to the arguments. Take a look at the transfer as you responded when the Federal Minister replied. You didn't listen at all – and then you say he wouldn't have answered your questions, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Stand firm – and you can't shake at it either –: We have a respected and popular finance minister, who, despite rigorous austerity policy, is undisputed in all rankings in second place, behind the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Not long!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But not for long!]] Mr. Matznetter, I've never seen you be so far ahead in a ranking, you're somewhere at the 25. Job. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] You are not even asked about, and neither are you, Mr Deputies. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] Mrs Bures, the same applies to you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have a respected finance minister. We have an opposition that will push everything, ladies and gentlemen, to overthrow this government. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: Right!]] The SPÖ therefore, because it believes that only it is predestined for government work in Austria, because it believes that it has, so to speak, the government fun, and the Greens because they believe that they would play any role as an attachment of the SPÖ in a red-green government. Obviously, you want to enforce their partly foreign and utopian policy, which you cannot otherwise bring on stage. They have meant that the pension reform would help to split this government coalition. Now you're disappointed because that didn't happen. But despite the harsh debates that have taken place, despite the internal debate between FPÖ and ÖVP, you have not managed to divide this government. This government is solidified as always and can look back on a great reform! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] What's the opposition doing? I don’t need to try to do this myself, but I just need to quote the “press”: “The train ‘crashed government’ has expired, now the opposition is based on another strategy. Because German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel was not to be tipped and will not be in the foreseeable future..., SPÖ and Grüde are shooting at another victim: Karl-Heinz Grasser.” The Minister of Finance has become the declared enemy image of red-green, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not saying that, but I'm just giving back what the press wrote, what journalists mean. The streets of SPÖ and Greens say quite openly: “The theme of Grasser” is to “become a ‘representative war’ as an indoor-political permanent burner of summer”. – The aim is to bring the coalition down, write new elections so that red and green can establish themselves. You are expecting better chances now than you were half a year ago, ladies and gentlemen. That is to say, the Minister, a respected minister must now stand as a target for the opposition! Once again, you see how you work: A person is being pushed to the lost road, which in fact has made a very positive policy. Mr Pilz, it has not been necessary to put the third question to the Minister of Finance within a very short time, but you have given an occasion for annulment – and you have not been able to justify your urgent question properly today – to ask a question for the third time, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I listened very well, because I'm not as emotionally heated up as you, that I can't listen at all, but only make intermediate calls. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As this Hatz will continue, it has already been sounded today, and we have already taken it from the media: This means that you will most likely submit a motion of censure tomorrow, although the Minister has answered all your questions today, although the Minister answered all the questions already last week! [[Call to the Greens: Certainly not!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You don't believe that yourself!]] [[New contradiction with the Greens.]] – You just didn’t watch because you’ve always been screaming down angry; I’ve told you before. You know what, I'll give you some advice. Check your policy of submitting requests for mistrust, because it raises the question of whether this will not be a pipe-creper or whether it does not go backwards. You have already filed seven mistrust requests against Minister Böhmdorfer – listen! – and now Minister Böhmdorfer is in the ranking of ‘NEWS’ – and you believe this because you believe everything in the ‘NEWS’; we hear that often – in an excellent place! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Completely right!]] [[Abg. Oils: Right!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Brosz: Because he had nothing to do with the pension reform!]] This is because he is doing a good job, because the barometer for the people of Austria is the actual work, and not the one you are talking about – excuse me, but I will take it back, otherwise I will get a call for order – this opposition policy that you are carrying out! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Let us look at the work in progress, ladies and gentlemen: According to the socialist waste policy of recent years, we now have consolidated budgets! For the first time since 30 years, there has been a zero deficit! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – I know you don't like to hear that, it doesn't fit well into your stuff. – We have a general government deficit of 1.3 percent of gross domestic product. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That means: Away from the final light of the EU, into the middle position, Mr Matznetter! Actually, you should be happy about this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] With 1.7 percent, we have the lowest inflation rate in the EU, Mr Matznetter. You'd have to be interested in that! – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's what counts! [[Further calls of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] This counts with the Austrians, but not your small sitter over a dinner with a Swiss millionaire or with tops of the Austrian industry! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] You know, Minister Grasser gives dinner for billionaires so they can make their investments in Austria so that there can be jobs again! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The socialist finance ministers, who probably also gave dinner: for the trade union bosses with whom they negotiated new privileges or new pay rounds! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You know what: Solve from the edge of the plate where you stick and you don't want to look over! Believe in the financial policy of this Federal Minister, and believe in the existence of this Federal Government! [[Abg. Oillinger: “Believe ”! “Believe”! – We are not here in a religious hour!]] Mr Finanzminister! You'll probably have to deal with such attacks more often. I'll give you something so you can stick it into your parent book: Criticism is a tax that the envy imposes on talent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, take note of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13326	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13344	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Partik-Pablé: Whoever is at the top can also fall very deep! That's the answer to your favorite ranking list. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Where are you in the ranking?]] A ranking does nothing at all when it comes to speaking and replying here to Parliament and telling the truth – and not to conceal it! What we heard from the Minister for Finance today was silence on the essential points. [[Abg. Scheibner: The truth!]] I'll tell you what. [[Call the ÖVP: There you have to get together now!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Didn't you watch out?]] Let us take the example: Invitation to dinner with economic magnates on the eve of the opera ball. What does the Minister of Finance give us in answer? – The catering cost 3 000 € and a little more. Mr Finanzminister! What is it for a Finance Minister to order the Philharmonic to eat and not to tell us how much the Philharmonics cost? [[Abg. Scheibner: Nothing! “Nothing,” he said! He said it was free!]] The Minister of Finance says: I don't care, the federal government didn't pay for it. I don't know who paid it. – Should that be the answer of a Minister of Finance?- Oh, my God! That's incredible! [[Abg. Scheibner: If he says it doesn't cost anything, what else should he say?]] Second point: Financing the homepage. – The Minister of Finance or his chief cabinet marches to the Industrial Union and says: How about a little coal for a homepage? – The Industrial Union says: Yes, if we can connect it with a good purpose – we can still find it, for example “New Economy” – then we can do it! – Then a homepage will be set up in which the children's photos of the Minister of Finance can be seen, through which you can also request autograph replies, which will then be sent with Porto of the Ministry. [[Abg. Scheibner: About the children's photos?]] But the Minister of Finance says: I know nothing!, I don’t know what the homepage costs – which is set up on his name, ladies and gentlemen, not on the name “Federal Ministry of Finance”, but on the name “Karl-Heinz Grasser”! Yes, how stupid do you think people in this country are not supposed to notice this dizziness?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be possible for the Commissioner, Mr Oellinger, to assume once, not to the industrial association, but to go to some club and say: I would like a nice idea, I would like to make a homepage for my name! – I'll send my staff and he'll come with the money, and then there's a homepage with the address "Karloellinger.at. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: There's no club!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I don’t believe either!]] But I say: I don't know what's going on on this homepage, I don't care! I can't do it at all, and I can't do anything, and I don't care whether my employees do it in their ministry or in their free time! But one thing I'm telling you: The examination of whether tax advantages have been achieved or rules have been violated is a concern to me! Federal Minister Grasser, I would have expected you to say here and now that no tax provision has been infringed, that you are saying here and today: Everything's all right! That you say here and today: That's where the money was spent, and that's the bill! – You should have said that not only with regard to the Philharmonics, but also with regard to the homepage. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But it seems to you, Minister of Finance, that all this doesn't matter! There is also an advertisement with many university professors – now, so many were not again, but some. Who's organizing this, who's texting? – This is what we hear: An employee of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Christl's texting the listing. But the Minister says: I don't know who the money for the listing came from, I don't care, it doesn't have anything to do with me and with the Ministry of Finance at all! Federal Minister Garsser: In any other civilized democratic country, you would have been the last day minister of a federal government with such a responsibility as you have shown them here today – and you know that too! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is unimaginable that this Minister declared in an answer to a question in 2002: “Of course, I would reject each one in any form, not only in a valueless way, if such a gift were offered to me. However, since this is not the case, there is no problem in this context until now. I can only repeat here that, in the course of my activity as Minister of Finance, I am given exclusively national attention on visits, such as books or other souvenirs, as they are governed by the regulations of civil service law or the law of civil servants. The Ethics Directives in my department may also be adopted by all other staff.” Ethics directives – yes, they exist, and they have also been addressed by the Federal Minister of Finance to this question. Interesting: The ethics guidelines of the Ministry of Finance, which set out the length and widths, from when a gift acceptance for a simple financial official is no longer possible, are not interested in the financial minis- ter when it comes to his person! They should already apply to small financial officials, as it is discussed whether or not a bottle is available. Wine or wine is still permitted, whether the invitation to a service meal is allowed: yes or no!, but the Minister of Finance makes a dinner with him, billed fees. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's where he invites! – That was very contradictory now!]] There are also the Philharmonics present as by chance – who certainly did not play for free, but the Minister of Finance does not care. This has obviously not been a gift if the Philharmonics show up at a meeting of the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But he's already invited?]] Well, of course, the forbidden gift acceptance is, and you know that exactly! [[Abg. Scheibner: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! That the Philharmonics play in the Ministry of Finance is not a gift acceptance!]] Finally, it is not a private event of the Minister of Finance, it is an official meal, and if the Philharmonics are sponsored by Mr Stronach or anyone else, it is a gift that is inadmissible in this form! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Ethics Guidelines, which this Minister of Finance is looking at to his financial officials, also demonstrate this: “Prohibition of gift acceptance,” it says here. “Here is one of the oldest ethical principles mentioned in the catalogue of official ethics: Of all doubts raised incorruptibleness. Errors in this field” – Minister of Finance, take good care! – “behaves to the fitness of the public service such as the rust to iron.” There's a lot of rust on your way, Minister of Finance! It also states in these Directives: “Prohibited gift acceptances are particularly suitable for bringing about a ‘break of confidence’ in the public. It also suffers not only the prestige and authority, and thus the success of the ‘priority’ staff, but also the reputation and operation of its service, even the entire financial and customs administration.’ This should only apply to the small financial officials, but not to the top financial officials of the Republic – which obviously does not care, from where, from whom, when, to what occasions he receives funds: for the operation of a homepage, for advertisements, for the recording of Philharmonics and what else do I know?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Ellmauer: This is becoming more and more embarrassing!]] – We will hear it and get to know it in the next few weeks. [[Abg. Grandruck: You won't be able to do anything! It's an air bubble! An air bubble, oillinger!]] But only that, Minister of Finance,...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13586	Mr Oellinger! The voluntary speaking time has expired for a long time. I'm setting up the last minute of legal speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13602	... – yes, thank you – that alone is enough. Therefore: If you want to provide this Republic with a service which is the only real service, then you will be relinquishing, Minister of Finance! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Then you will stay Minister of Finance!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13639	Mr Vergestnitsch spoke on a point of order to make an actual correction. I call for a comparison between the alleged facts and the actual facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13663	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Partik-Pablé claimed that former finance ministers had invited trade union bosses to negotiate privileges with them at lunch. [[Call at the ÖVP: That was the other way round!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Although I've never been there with anything like this, I'm stuck. The fact is that the Minister of Finance is being negotiated about the right to serve and pay – and not over lunch. There's a witness sitting here, and the second witness is not in the room right now, that's MP Neugebauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13718	The next speaker is Mr Amon. The watch is gladly set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13737	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! That they can do so much noise about nothing, the Greens and the SPÖ would rather predestine for the Burgtheater on the opposite side of the street, but not for the High House! I can tell you that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: Talk to the Philharmonic and not to the Burgtheater!]] [[Abg. Schieder: He doesn't know himself in Vienna!]] The Federal Minister for Finance has answered all questions carefully, serious and comprehensively. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You're making fun of yourself!]] – Since Mr Kogler is already so artificially excited again, I would like to say that this strange and bad-style threat that you have set up in the last few days was, of course, to be expected, that you are going on the “evil” Minister of Finance as well as the big cue: If he's not nice and here answered our questions, we'll punish him with a mistrust! – Ladies and gentlemen, bring this in peace! [[Abg. May. Worm: We have an interconnection right!]] He will not find a majority in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In reality, however, this is something quite different, and in this context I can try a very prominent communication scientist, namely Paul Watzlawick, who says: What A says about B is more about A than about B. What does this mean for us in today's debate? – It means: What the Greens and the SPÖ say about the Minister of Finance really keeps them in a wonderful way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So what does that tell us in today's debate? – The polls of the Greens are sensationally bad – by the way, also the personal surveys of their clubman, who, by the way, does not speak in this debate today, nor is the clubman of the SPÖ. Both of them do not speak in this debate, so they are in agreement with the government parties. [[Abg. Ollinger: Yours? Yours?]] But what does this request say about the Greens and the SPÖ? – First of all, you have tried the Federal Government with very violent actions... – not you personally, but you were in the first row when demonstrations took place in which violent perpetrators were present! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Repeat this outside! Repeat that outside...!]] With these demonstrations you have not succeeded in overthrowing this federal government. This is a very bad style, Professor Van der Bellen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Repeat this outside!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: That's incredible!]] [[Further calls to the Greens and the SPÖ.]] They have tried to prevent this pension reform. But the role you played was no longer free, because the role of the blockers had already occupied the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and the Social Democrats, the role of the reformers of the Austrian People's Party and the Freedom Party. There is nothing left for the Greens: Bad style, bad performance, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Then the attempt to bring about a criminalisation when the interception hunters are re-purchased. What happened? – The SPÖ has claimed it and has been sentenced in all instances. What was with the greens? – They are constantly trying to place ads at the prosecutor’s office. [[Abg. Oillinger: We? We?]] – All the ads have been placed down so far because they are unstoppable! What's that? – Bad style, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Untruth! Untruth!]] The Federal Minister for Finance is excellent in all survey data, and so your strategy is extremely transparent. There's a secret study called "Network Red: White: Red" that was awarded to a Mr. Katzmair on behalf of the SPÖ Presidency, and what does this study say? – That’s very interesting, and I’m allowed to explain this briefly so that it can also be heard by the public. [[Abg. Oillinger:... has been created by the boy ÖVP!]] There's inside: Karl-Heinz Grasser is one of those politicians who either have to be taken positively or politically disavowed, because otherwise no success can be expected for social democracy, but also for the Greens, ladies and gentlemen! – Bad political style is that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Then Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig last Sunday in the ORF discussion series “Openly said” So Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig, this government appearance you showed there, is not good at a target group that is in your heart, namely young intellectuals. [[Abg. Oillinger: Say something about the subject!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: But you already?- Oh, my God!]] Bad style, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, bad style! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: Exercise makes the Master!]] “Training makes the Master!” I hear there as an intermediate call. I mean, Exercise might be the Meissner! But exercise does the master – I don't know. [[Abg. Oillinger: What are you talking about?]] At the end of my remarks, I would like to say what you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, are trying here is an unprecedented campaign, is an unprecedentedly bad style to make successful members of the government ready. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Not a word for the urgent! Not a word has come to your mind!]] That's the only thing you're trying to do! It is, I really have to say, disappointing that you do not want to take note that this federal government is working extremely successfully that it... – You are laughing?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Except insults, you didn't think of anything!]] [[Ironic locality at the SPÖ.]] You laugh! Well, take a look at Germany, there is an alliance of your cut, consisting of Greens and Social Democrats! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen:... look at Kazakhstan too...!]] What do they have? – The highest unemployment rate in Europe! We have one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What do they have? – A disastrous Maastricht deficit, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's what!]] You also have a bad tax policy! The opposite is the case in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Not a word on the subject!]] I would therefore ask you: Take a distance from this bad style, then you will also improve your survey values again!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14109	Mr Pilz has made a point of correcting the matter. – Please compare the actual facts with the alleged facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14130	Mr Amon has claimed that we Greens would have brought criminal charges in the Causa interceptors on a regular basis. [[Call to the ÖVP: “Series” he didn’t say!]] In fact, it's right: We have not made any representation or ad, because we first want to carry out the political and parliamentary information. [[Abg. Big Truck: Not even that!]] [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] But, you don't have quite wrong long, if it continues that way, it won't last anymore! [[Abg. Murauer: But Mr. Anonymous!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14213	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. The clock is set to 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14239	Mr President. Federal Minister! Both colleagues Auer as well as Mr Amon are always referring to Germany. Perhaps we should stick to the political morality there for a second! There a CDU politician relinquishes Biedenkopf after having been shown to want him out loud and brilliance at IKEA discounts. There a Minister of Justice, who has also made statements in private, which are politically sensitive. There a number of politicians retire after having become known that they have received private benefits. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now we come to the case before us: Mr Partik-Pablé says that we are pushing Federal Minister Grasser to the Loserstraße. – It is not so, he has gone there himself! I would like to get to the point briefly. Last week, after the allusion: My personal, private homepage didn't cost the taxpayer a cent!, comes the supplement: Everything “private and funded by sponsors.” – Well, what did he want to tell us? – Well: Look how great I am, I even have sponsors! That's how you entered the fat cap yourself. [[==References====External links== Grass Turning]] Only: Now train around train appears what is happening in the background. [[Abg. Oils: That's it!]] I would like to present the facts very soberly: The Federal Minister for Finance is addressing an association, namely the Industrial Union, whose Speciality is that their membership contributions, as contributions to a group of stakeholders tax deductible, are paid by the entrepreneurs – and please, I would like to have financial support! [[Abg. Head: These are the trade unionists too!]] [[Abg. Nuremberger: But from us trade unionists he won't get any money!]] As a result, the Industrial Association gives a “unity to promote the New Economy” gifts of over €200 000. [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I should like to point out in terms of taxes that – and it will not change, even if you are excited – a promotion of certain sectors of activity according to the permanent jurisdiction of the VWGH is not a non-profit activity. That means: Even this gift did not take place in favour of a non-profit association, but could not be of any benefit because it did not pursue an ideal purpose in its actual management, but for the private citizen Karl-Heinz Grasser paid the expenses of his personal and private home page – you told us, Minister of State Grasser, that it was personal and private last week. That means there's a second gift process. I would just like to remind you: We have tax class V, we have an amount of €200 000, I don't need to check, we're at 42 percent progression. So we are above the limit of €75 000 in the § 53 Financial Criminal Law – this is a serious matter and not something you can do by the way! Here, by the Minister of Finance, there is an indirect - and I still want to help him - that he may not have understood it - revealed a process of train by train, which is not only in the light of § 304 para. 2 StGB – I said more: [[pointing to Federal Minister Grasser]] Abs. 2, namely to carry out a “obligatory” exercise of office, and not even to claim the other – is interesting, but also reveals, in addition to this point, a criminal offence to be suspected. You, Federal Minister Grasser, will therefore remain nothing else – and I strongly advise you – as your political responsibility in good time, and that means the way to demission from the Federal President. You can thus restore your integrity and – you are a young man – also your future reputation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: After such advice he needs!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: embarrassing!]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni:... bird...!]] As Mr Klubobmann Molterer smiles a little inflamed, on this occasion I can still clarify: § 304 StGB is completely clear in this matter. For the benefit acceptance, it is sufficient that the advantage is only one ‘third’. It is enough if Federal Minister Grasser causes the advantage to come to an association that pays for his private home page. He doesn't have to have the money-value advantage in his wallet, it doesn't have to be on his account. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: But now is time to stop!]] It'll be examined sometime! I would like to draw your attention to the following very seriously If there is no appropriate treatment in the office of Minister Böhmdorfer and end up similar to the top coward, that is, by putting everything in place, then there will be another distrust request! [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: It's time to stop!]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Such a humbug!]] The day will come when it will be rolled up and the conditions will be established in accordance with the rules of law. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: It's time to stop!]] We are not in Italy, ladies and gentlemen. But there, too, the rule of law, as it exists in Austria, will one day prevail! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14427	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14445	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today, in this half of the House, we were all very excited about the news we wanted to learn. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Why? You know... about this urgent one!]] As a matter of fact, everything was already in the newspapers, it was nothing below what could have fascinated us in any way. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: But for an answer!]] It was basically also what we expected, namely that you would like to distract from your inability to decide on reforms that we have discussed here in the House. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni:... Board member!]] You have nothing else to show, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition, than constantly to cry and squeak – and that at a very embarrassing level! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: You are embarrassing!]] The backgrounds are obvious, and they have been clearly declared by my previous speakers by the SPÖ and the Greens today: They want to launch the “Government Action II”. [[Abg. Heinzl: How are the Federal Councils of Carinthia? Have you heard?]] That's going to be But you are not successful, I can confirm this to you on the part of our group here. [[New congratulations to the liberals and to representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Within 100 days, this Federal Government has created a very impressive reform package, which is remarkable, which you should finally acknowledge and from which you should not be constantly distracting. The goal you've set is a mistrust and a staged media vertebra. That should distract from all that you've missed in the past. They have failed to participate in the government's negotiations and round tables, to consult with us and to take decisions on pension reform, tax reform, administrative reform and health reform. This form of distractions, as you have done with your mistrusts against our Federal Minister Böhmdorfer all seven times, is not the style that the Austrian people expect from the politicians here in the House, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Toothless Instrumentarium of the Opposition!]] They always speak of “moving. ” In the APA, Mr Pilz has spoken a total of 60 times about'shifting', and in a total of 95 reports in the media he has accused someone of pushing. [[Abg. Parnigoni: 100 times too little!]] However, he has basically not submitted any evidence that is also considered such by the media. [[Abg. May. Mainoni:... conjectures, allegations, assumptions!]] That's an ugly policy! You should ask yourself whether you, as a Member of this House, are still portable, Mr Pilz. As you present Mr. Finanzminister's home culture to the President, I can tell you already, ladies and gentlemen from the Greens and the Social Democrats, that a Josef Broukal, a Ulrike Sima, a Bettina Stadlbauer, a Caspar One, a Alfred Gusenbauer or a Günther Herbe also have homepages on the Internet and they are paid out of tax. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Right! That's it!]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] The homepage of the Minister of Finance is not paid for by means of tax. Your homepages obviously serve to satisfy your personal vanity, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That's what you're talking about!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] The consulting services have also been provided by many of you to the Pranger last week. But there was nothing under the line either. They had to note that in Austria we have record employment, that we have achieved a zero deficit and that the unemployment rate and the inflation rate are the third lowest in the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! These are economic and economic achievements which this Federal Government can be very proud of. To sum up, consider: The goal of the Federal Government has been more than achieved in the last two years. [[Call the SPÖ:... don't understand!]] They've brought nothing new on allegations. What has been done by the Industrial Union to support our Federal Minister is not objectionable, nor is it anything you could criticize. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Ah that? In the past, however, the FPÖ would have reacted differently!]] If you take the industrial association to blame the Federal Minister for something, I have to tell you: The industrial association is probably far from having a reason to support the Minister. A tax reform that relieves the lower levels of income, a tax reform that favours 2.4 million Austrians specifically low incomes and exempts untruthed profits up to €100 000 from taxes or includes half the tax rate, which is not the way of thinking of industrial associations, ladies and gentlemen, but it is a responsible tax policy for the “small” citizens of our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14688	Mr Broukal spoke in favour of an actual correction. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The same is true of what I said about the previous actual corrections. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14740	They always get to know me a little better in this way! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Bucher said that I had a homepage paid out of public funds. – That’s wrong! My website on the Internet is financed exclusively by private funds and not by any sponsors. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Made yourself!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14794	Mrs Bures. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14812	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think my colleague Matznetter has very soberly explained the facts about the Causa Grasser. It is also not surprising that the speakers of the government parties have not been referred to it. Mr Amon, it is not about being nice or not being like. The question is that there is a suspicion of the acceptance of gifts and the abuse of office towards Mr. Federal Minister Grasser. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let me also say something basic about this. I think that it is particularly important for a finance minister to be able to deal with public funds properly, to deal with public funds sparingly and strictly, because they are tax funds paid by the Austrians. For this reason, a Finance Minister should be an example in dealing with public funds. A finance minister should therefore apply this principle, which has always been valid in Austria. In particular, it would be good for you to adhere to this principle, since you are one of those finance ministers who are responsible for the Austrians paying the highest taxes and taxes throughout the history of the Second Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That is wrong!]] The unfortunate thing, however, Mr Federal Minister, is that you do exactly the opposite: In particular, you, the tax and tax record minister, are particularly easily involved in dealing with public resources. Their motto seems to be: Saving citizens – but with yourself you are generous! Money doesn't matter when it comes to Your own advertising is: 10 million € for self-advertising! This corresponds exactly to the amount with which you also donate the hardness fund in order to give the victims of your pension reduction reform a few alms. 10 million € for self-advertisement, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That's not true!]] € 10 million for advisory services relating to the sale of the state-owned housing companies, which each bank institution would have handled at no cost. They also have experts in the ministry. There was money thrown out, there was a transfer of money to Freunderln for things for which you would actually have to pay nothing in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now it's all clear: For your vanity, for your friends in the real estate sector the money of taxpayers obviously does not matter. What is politics for? Policy at the service of society. Public policy. Policy as a competition for ideas and values. – This is not your case, Mr. Federal Minister! This is obviously completely foreign to you as a political concept. You actually know only one competition, that is the competition for vanity. Your political weakness, which has become so noticeable in this response to the question, including your moral lightness, makes you obviously vulnerable to ethical and moral and probably even legally questionable practices. After your inquiry and your statements of the last days, I have been given the impression that you are not only suffering from gastritis, which has caused you to have your citizenship...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14872	Please, this has not lost anything here, I want to say!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14888	... the service's performance has not been met, but you are particularly suffering from a lack of awareness of injustice. Mr. Federal Minister Grasser, Austria is not your stock company in which you can apply the golden rule of your former boss. We do not live in an Austria of the rich and the good, but you have to note that we live in a democratic republic, which is democratically controlled and has rule of law, and it is good that we live in this Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Minister! Since you are obviously unable or unwilling to comply with these consciously strict rules, which exist, I ask you to: Pull the consequences and step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14927	The next speaker is Mr Broukal. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Now comes the expert!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Just no envy!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15000	I've never used these two buttons here before. [[The speaker is trying to adjust the height of the speaker's desk properly.]] The top goes up? - Great. Quick or slow? - Great, thank you. [[Calls.]] – I would have done the most important thing. You agree, don't you? [[Abg. Steibl: Great!]] I would have learned the rest, quite the contrary, to some of you, but you will still learn it. [[Call the ÖVP:Eh!]] – That was too deep, I admit. I will withdraw it, please remove it from the minutes. I'm envying You do not today, all of you from ÖVP and the Freeman are faced with a very serious question: [[Call the ÖVP: Very funny!]] Does Minister of Finance, Karl-Heinz Grasser, deserve applause to the extent that you donate it today? And does he deserve your defense to the extent that you defended him today? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'd ask myself in your place: Is it really just a coincidence if Karl-Heinz Grasser meets with managers of a armaments group during the ongoing award? Is it really just a coincidence that this group will then receive the surcharge even though it is the most expensive supplier? [[Abg. Murauer: That's not true!]] Is it just a coincidence that just a few months ago Grasser disbanded in the Federal Council to have held exactly those meetings that he had to admit to you at the House last week? Is it really just a coincidence and really just a single case when Grasser has to admit that he is paid or donated by the Industrial Association? Pay or donate – he is the beneficial person. It is an income or a gift, both inappropriate, politically inappropriate and, that should also be the guideline for you, unlawful. Above all: Just a week ago, Karl-Heinz Grasser also told you that it is about his private homepage, but today we know that the Federal Ministry of Finance sends photos and replies to this homepage. Karl-Heinz Grasser – I think you can say that calmly – has an economic approach with the truth: admitting what can be proved. And: What is true today can already be false tomorrow, and vice versa. I would like to give you three examples, and I hope you will also see that this man stands for a lot, but not always for a straight path. Case one: In the summer of 1994 the Carinthian Slovenians invited to a large audience discussion in the House of the Chamber of Commerce. For FPÖ there is a young speaker at the speaker's desk, who knows 1001 reasons against EU accession and who can only stop the moderator with difficulty. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] After joining the EU, the same man – he is now a little older – says that he is glad that Austria is an EU member. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does this have to do with the Minister of Finance?]] – What grass did the truth say? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Case two: Karl-Heinz Before a choice in Carinthia, Grasser gives the law-and-constitutional instructions not to employ companies in road construction where foreign workers work. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] – I remember that at the time, too, you were very indignant. – This is, so to speak, the ideological examination of his then mentor, lord and master. In spring 2000, shortly after his appointment as Minister of Finance, Grasser is addressed by a journalist, and this journalist notes: Grasser turns red in the face and says he wouldn't see that anymore. – What was the truth, the one from 1997 or the one from 2000? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Case three: Karl-Heinz Grasser, of course, endorses popular desire against the introduction of the euro. He wants to suspend Austria and Schilling without the protection of the European Central Bank of international monetary speculation. Three years later – many of you, who come from the west or south by plane to Vienna, will remember – the same man smiles at us with a huge copy of a euro view at the airport Vienna at the exit from the customs of a poster and says: It's nice to see the euro coming! The euro is a favorite child. – Who spoke the truth, Karl-Heinz Grasser, who signed the popular desire against the euro, or Finance Minister Grasser, who today praises the euro? Do you know? - I don't know! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to remind you of a fourth case, so that you know who you are so eagerly applauseing for, 200 000 euros, should have cost the homepage of the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Your Obmann and Haider...!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] Faith You've been doing this for a second? Faith For a second, Mr. Prince of the Industrial Union on the street happened to meet the three employees of Mr. Grasser and said: Boys, I have 200 000 euros too much, what could we do with it? Faith You'll be told the truth here for a second? - I don't know, but I'm telling you: The chance that this man will tell you the truth is 50 : 50, and that's a bad chance, not just at the Russian roulette!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15172	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. Legal speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15190	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What is the summary according to the words of Mr Broukal, after this urgent one, after this last week? – The confidence of the population in these finance ministers is shaken! – As you laugh, my colleague, I must say: [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] It is depressing to see how little contact you seem to have with the population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Public interest is enormous. It is about the Austrian industry, hundreds of thousands of jobs, the use of tax resources in times of brutal social decline and the greatest acquisition of the second Republic. And has the Minister of Finance strengthened confidence in his person last week? I remember the debacle at the urgent request last week. What about the disaster in the "ZiB 2", Mr. Minister? What about the embarrassing Sunday at the golf course? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Did he lose at the golf course?]] And with today's attention to Parliament and the public? Ladies and gentlemen! Let me analyse it objectively, soberly and precisely! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] – I will prove it to you, Mr Mainoni. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are not real!]] ==References== March 2000 – I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to underestimate this – the Minister said before the Inconsistency Committee that he would, of course, pay attention to the strictest respect for all due grounds of partiality in the case of political decisions – which he literally meant – which concern the companies and any other companies in the Magna Group. And last week, ladies and gentlemen? – Of course, we have had discussions, says the Minister of Finance, of course we have conducted negotiations – and this is what he is dementing today – and of course we have met personalities and conducted talks. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do you have something new in your speech?]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Same speech as last week!]] Minister! All of this is inadmissible. Discussions, negotiations – confirm once, dispute once They – in this case they are not allowed! Or, as far as the listing of professors is concerned [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was the speech last week, Mr. Herbs!]] Last week the Minister said, Mrs Fekter: “Since I’m not the client, I can’t tell you who paid it and who made the graphics.” I'll tell you: The graphic has made your cabinet employee Dr. Christl, who has financed the entire industrial rites union. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That is wrong!]] And as is known today, the spokesperson of the Industrial Union says Grasser has requested donations for the association. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] - That's how it looks, Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A few more words about the homepage. The Minister has carried out the following: ‘There is no support in this respect by companies that have or have an economic relationship with the BMF.’ Who did this homepage, ladies and gentlemen? – It was a subsidiary of Hochegger Communications. And which company is that? – This company has collected €2.5 million for the road show at the expense of the taxpayer, Minister. That's how it looks! A private association is sponsored by the Industrial Association by the Finance Minister by the Finance Minister, Cabinet employees are acting there as an associationmeier, a subsidiary company is commissioned for the homepage of a company that employs you publicly. Unbelievable, Minister, in all the cultivated European countries, the question of staying in office would be put. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to do something about the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, and this is not someone who wants to discredit you inconceivably, who wants to practice absurd criticism, which focuses on polemics and fortification – I think it is out of dispute – he says: It always depends on who these sponsors are. If this creates a close proximity to groups that get orders from the public hand, that would be very worrying. - Sober. Ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who knows the careful expression of President Fierce knows this is a devastating criticism! Minister! One thing, as I believe, is still important to you, namely the retention in the ÖVP and the FPÖ. To this end, I would like to say the following: There are compulsory exercises here, but it is applauded, but on 30. An application for cargo has been completely disillusioned in the “Small Investigation Committee” on April. ==References== However, ÖVP and FPÖ have hurryed to submit a charge request themselves. Ladies and gentlemen! That is to say, ÖVP and FPÖ are obviously also interested to find out, Mrs Fekter, how it is possible that a slide show costs €52 000, how it can be that more than €10 million will be thrown into a US company when it comes to the sale of Austrian apartments, and how it can be that a professor Marin receives a complaint order of over € 145 000. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] – Minister! We will clarify these questions in the “small investigation committee” before the summer,...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15336	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15352	... Mr Minister, if you are still in office at this time. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Well, I'm sure we can expect that!]] You may then be able to devote much more to golf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15389	Mrs Sburny. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15410	Mr President. Minister! High house! Federal Minister Grasser, your strategy is easy to see. After you've been presenting us with a little bit of self-evidentness for a few days, namely that you've been talking to people or that it's quite natural that your homepage is private, but then is sponsored, now that you're thinking that it's politically unbearable, you have to challenge everything or give no or only partial answers to the questions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Again in detail: EADS. You said – even if you dispute it today – that the minutes should read the speeches on the last question, you met with people and did not distinguish between representatives of EADS, the company, and official representatives of countries that represented flu and F 16. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] – That’s a difference! Just as it is a difference whether your private homepage is paid for privately or sponsored by an association that could have an interest in connections with you. You also said today – quite by the way; these things come simply, you almost believe, because you don't even notice that there are differences – it doesn't matter whether your employees are writing a post for a newspaper or for a homepage. What you're not saying is that this homepage Your private homepage is very different! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Similar is the urgent request made last week by SPÖ. Of course, there are consultative agreements that make sense and which are also politically correct. What you constantly mix with it is your personal PR, and that's exactly what you can't and never distinguish. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: You mix it!]] Where is, please – and there is no answer to that – the rest of the money of this approximately 200 000 € that has gone to the club that can never and never be used for your homepage? For this, 10 000 €, 20 000 € may have been needed, but where is, please, the rest? – There has been a question, but no answer from you. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister Grasser! You cannot distinguish between private and your role as Minister. They obviously don't draw any limits there. What surprises me and what I think is very interesting is that the representatives of the government groups who have spoken here today have not lost a single word. No one of you has lost a word on this, has given an opinion on whether this is incompatible or not, whether you are drawing borders or not. Should we really assume that you all support it, protect it, and see it the same way that it doesn't matter whether it's private or not? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Legally, what Federal Minister Grasser has done is at least verifiable, but politically it is absolutely unbearable!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15486	No further words are available. I declare the debate closed. No applications are available. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What for then the whole thing?]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15515	We are therefore continuing to complete the agenda: Federal Finance Act 2003 and 2004, Chapter Health and Women. Mrs Stadlbauer spoke with a voluntary time limit of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15544	I am very sorry that the Minister is not here now. So she misses a moment that will probably not be so many times in my life. I wanted to defend them now and for myself, and I did not want to leave in the room what Mr Scheuch said first. He has called women who engage in women's politics, who put women's policies in the foreground of their work more or less absurd or unnecessary, because he does not believe that women lead a life in which such a thing is needed. Mr Scheuch, wherever you are, I would like to ask you whether this applies to agricultural policy. I think that farmers also have a beautiful life in Austria. However, I would never consider questioning agricultural policy. - What you've delivered here was a pretty good idea. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs Rauch-Kallat, who I have now included in these forewords, said in her last speech last week in the National Council that she invited women's policies, women's political organisations and women's projects, to work with her. I will also use this today, I will be happy to take this ball and take advantage of this opportunity. However, I would like to point out what she has failed, among other things, to look at the budget. First of all – this topic has already come a few times, and you will probably hear it again and again, because it has chosen it for her favorite theme – about the income shears to the famous closure of income shears. Mrs Minister, wherever you are, don't be angry with me, but here you are running a policy of announcement. You always emphasize how important this is, but you remain guilty of any action. Even what you have proposed today is some of the measures that are already in place, you have to do them enough, but there are no new inventions. It would be better if you were at last responsible for ensuring that there are enough kindergarten and horticultural places and that, above all, school forms are expanded or introduced throughout the day, that you also finance these forms. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would be better if you were to ensure that a law on women's promotion in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour was drawn up in the Ministry of Labour. Compulsory operating agreements instead of a possible formulation would be a concrete proposal. And it would be better if you finally took the fathers into duty and gave them the legal opportunity to dedicate yourself to the family. Legal measures are the key and not a good one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Dear ladies of the ÖVP! It's not enough for men to put flower sticks on the tables and hope that they finally overwork family work. But you just have to give them the legal framework to do so, say labour law insurance. Second point: self retention during doctor's visit. Mr Weinzinger has already mentioned this in her speech, and I would like to take this up once again because Minister Rauch-Kallat did not respond to it at all in her reply. Minister Rauch-Kallat as Minister of Health proposes a measure that is proven to have worse effects for women than for men. This has been demonstrated in a study of the IHS. So I ask myself a few questions: On the one hand: Where's Gender Mainstreaming? Has the gender fallen out of mainstreaming in the end, or is that not true in this area? And how do you, above all, judge this measure as a woman minister, or how can you, as a woman minister, even allow such a measure to pass through the Council of Ministers? And how can you propose such a measure at all? – One really sees that what you say is double-duty and not serious. Mrs. Minister! The development of women's rights and access to women's rights do not cost much money. This costs only political will and good will, but I am unfortunately missing it from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15629	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15647	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address my predecessor Mr Prammer of SPÖ and Mr Weinzinger of the Greens, who claimed that we would not make a women's policy by the government party ÖVP – and not even for mothers with children under three years of age. The fact is that the ÖVP has the highest proportion of electorate in the election on 24 February. ==References== That is, our policy cannot have been as wrong as the opposition claims. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If Mr Stadlbauer now says that legal measures are necessary and that nothing has happened, I would like to point out an action by a woman minister who is no longer a minister, namely Helga Konrad. It has introduced half-and-half, but it seems that it has not done anything. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] I would just like to say that we are on the right path with our policy under Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel and our wife Federal Minister. We create framework conditions and we allow freedom of choice. I would like to say one more thing to Mr Groenewald. He does not want Austria to be one of the countries that make the best health policy. I just want to get you on the way: The health organization has placed us in 9th place in a worldwide comparison! [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Before you!]] That means, the way we're going now can't be as bad as you do again and again. With our Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat we are going to have health policy, we will continue women's policy in this way – for the benefit of our voters, our Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15700	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15718	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't know how you all did, but I was really happy when I learned that the skills for women's policy leave the area of veterinary work and are now again perceived by a woman. However, optimism has soon turned into deep disappointment, at the latest, when the numerous press conferences with slogan-like announcements were followed by the first concreteizations. There you have shown, Mrs. Minister, that you are a bad lobbyist for us women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I cannot spare you a few questions, such as: Why have you allowed the calculation period to be extended from the 15 best to 40 years? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You always wanted the careers...!]] This is especially true of those women who have given up their work in order to devote themselves to the family, and thus have followed a life model which has been especially vehemently propagated by your party, Mrs Steibl. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: We've been looking at your model! That's your model!]] Now you punish the women, especially the younger ones, for whom none of the lids will apply, so that they will be reduced to 40 percent of the pension, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is a betrayal to us women! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: This is the untruth!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mrs Brinek, because you are so well aware of the interlocutory calls: In a “standard” interview, you even have a pedagogicalally sound argument for the women you cheated: If the women stay at home, they are only entertainers for small spoiled egoists anyway, you meant to be reasonable at the time. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] A Social Democrats should have trusted in such a statement! A cry of outrage would have been the result, especially on the right side of this house. The three years of deduction per child are really only felt for those women who can call a considerable children's variety their own and also later still have the luck of receiving a well paid job, for example as a professional politician. Thus the “Lex Rosary”, as it is already called in the Volksmund, really only benefits a very limited group of persons or a limited group of persons, so that there is no misunderstandings. The part-time salesman with two children will probably be able to see few advantages, and with an income of perhaps €600 you will hopefully not trust to point them to the second or third pillar. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These suspensions, ladies and gentlemen, are pure placebos that do not contribute to the health of this disease. Only placebo will be taken into consideration by people who are caring for sick relatives and thus have to limit their employment. They may once have the rightful members of the family hospice, of which there are “very many ” because of the very narrow conditions of claim. Most of the caregivers who have been exposed to the greatest physical and mental requirements for years at home remain unthankful and careless. The withdrawal of the planned one-off payment and the valorization of the care allowance is also not exactly an expression of great appreciation. To re-polate your self-defined image as a social conscience of the government, Mrs. Minister, you will surely need many expensive meetings with your marketing strategy. But perhaps “KHG”, the independent financial optimizer for ministers of all kinds, gives you useful financing tips. I'd like you to.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15812	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15831	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm coming to talk to the health again. The question is: What are the health expectations? We agree that health care should be efficient and high quality, therefore a yes to top medical research and a top-class technological equipment. It should be comprehensive, i.e. comprehensive care in all regions. It should be freely accessible, that is, regardless of the financial possibilities or age. She's supposed to be efficient. However, this is due to a reform, and we are talking about a health reform. And it should be eligible for funding by increasing efficiency and efficiency. However, I would like to focus very briefly on top-level medicine. As our Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsslin said in his speech about the situation of the nation, we are in some areas leading in medicine, for example in hearing implants and organ transplants. In Austria, more seriously ill people have a chance of survival than in other comparable Western industrialized countries. I am also an indirect user of this top-level medicine, and I have had to do this with my own experience. I am happy about it and also grateful for living in Austria, because because of our high-quality medicine, one of my family members was particularly ill. This was possible through optimal collaboration of oncologists and specialists for orthopaedics. I am also grateful to Mr Green Forest for the key word: That was really world-class medicine. Over the course of a long period of treatment, I was able to observe that the immense stress from chemotherapy has increased, thanks to research, and that the methods of investigation can be carried out more and more accurately, faster and less stressfully. Ridi Steiblhat already said that WHO Austria has assigned a very favourable place worldwide. The OECD experts also prove very high quality to our health system. We from the government want a first-class medicine, not a two-class medicine. Our aim is to introduce quality assurance measures in all areas of the health system. But we know that expenditure on medical services and care will increase significantly. That means that we – and I mean everyone in the house – have to do and change a lot to maintain this quality. That is what we are guilty ourselves and also our following generations, and that is quite in the sense of a sentence of the health organization, which means: Ge- Health is one of the fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15882	On the basis of an actual correction, Mrs Dr. Mr Brinek on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15903	Mr President. I'm actually correcting: Mr Grossmann claimed that we would have decided to reduce the pension by up to 40 percent with the budget accompanying law. Rather, it is true that a cover of losses was decided by a maximum of 10 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: How long?]] – For 25 years and more. Moreover, the next government, the next National Council, must decide. 25 years!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15938	The next speaker is Mrs Fleckl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15956	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Women in the double budget 2003 and 2004 and what they expect: I'm not allowing myself to say anything good. Still in the government programme, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, the Federal Minister for Smoking, has announced to women what is commendable and, above all, to be welcomed; but: Where's your responsibility towards women, Mrs. Federal Minister, when you vehemently supported your chancellor's pension reductions? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Already today, 70 percent of women with their pensions are at and below the poverty line, due to short contribution periods, part-time employment and income differences of up to 30 percent compared to men. Nothing happens from your side to eliminate these differences in income between women and men. In the budget, the EU action programme on equal opportunities for women is worth €1,000. I would like to say that a shameful contribution to the equality of women is being made. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They form only beautiful soap bubbles, give Sunday speeches, but act differently than you talk. What does your women's policy look like? – In the budget consultations, Mrs Bundesminister, you have referred to the question at the shop opening times that the liberalisation of shop opening times will give women the opportunity to go shopping longer. A strange view, I would like to say. I ask you: Who else should go shopping in the evening? One needs to work longer, and the other is pulled out of the bag by the budget. The shops will be empty, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 70 percent of employees in trade are women, 70 percent, for whom it is crucial whether they can spend every second Saturday with their family or not. For most of these 70 percent, there will be no adequate childcare facilities in the evening until 9 p.m. Where are budgetary resources to create comprehensive childcare facilities, facilities that these women need? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Where do the initiatives of the city of Vienna remain?]] I come from rural structures, Mrs Colleague, and can tell you that there are too few childcare facilities in this area. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Nothing to read and not to see from these budgetary resources! Have you also thought about the fact that in these circumstances family life on weekends will be almost impossible? Is this your contribution to becoming the most family-friendly country in the world, which you always strive for? “Very much” family-friendly, I can only say, Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Women have set signs. 400,000 people have signed the Citizens' Initiative, including many women. They have announced that they cannot afford to self-hold and a third pillar in the pension insurance system – and many more communities within this budget accompanying law. These women are being ignored by you. If you really mean it seriously with your women's policy, Mrs. Federal Minister, then finally open your eyes! See also those women who are not well cared for because they do not have a capable husband at home! See also these women who have to provide for their children alone and who have not come into the world with the golden spoon like some of us! These women need to create a legal basis. But what are you doing? Through your policy, you create an elbow society in which women always have the shorter elbows and will draw the shorter ones, even if they are still fighting so hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16023	The next speaker is Mrs Wegscheider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16041	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! 50 years ago, the highest mountain in the world was first climbed. In 1975 the first woman reached the summit, four years later the first European woman. Unfortunately, no Austrian has yet been on Mount Everest, on the roof of the world. The Austrian Mountain Guide Association in Galtür states that there are only ten mountain guides in Austria. On the other hand, there are 1 300 men who have the same activity. So similar is the relationship in the chief days of many large companies. The relationship was similar until recently in politics. How do we get more women in decision-making positions to drive our country to the highest performance? Above all, we need to create the framework conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion on the “Women” chapter has so far been very lively. In my opinion, the issue of equal treatment for men and women should be less focused on party-political dogmas than on the matter in itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Especially at Gender Mainstreaming, it is said to hold together for our politicians. In April last year, the Federal Government set a decisive target with the Council of Ministers decision on Gender Mainstreaming. Austria has thereby committed itself politically and legally to implementing these strategies into national measures. The recommendations for this Decision are based on the recommendations of women from various political institutions. I'm very happy about that. But now it is up to us to stay on the subject and for the next gene ratio. In this context, it is important to ensure that women are given the right opportunities to participate in active women. There is still a need for action, particularly in the field of the economy, in the area of the so-called "huy" districts of men. Why are the actions in this area so brief? When I think about how much effort has been put into the opening of typical men's professions for women! However, 55 percent of girls still opt for a women's teaching profession. An important measure is the promotion of women's groups, projects and initiatives which, through their activities, contribute to promoting the social and political influence of women and to solving immediate problems. Women must be given the necessary means to continue to be able to control women's issues themselves. A measure, for example, put in Upper Austria, is the extension of the opening hours of childcare facilities. The country takes over 75 percent of the additional personnel costs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With such or similar measures, we can also enable Austria to significantly increase the female employment rate. It would also be important to make work more flexible. As a pioneer country, Sweden can serve us, the country with the highest employment rate of women in Europe. And despite the high proportion of women in working life, we also find Sweden in the leading field at the birth rate. Today's society demands female qualities and female decisions. This not only helps the Austrian economy, but also the whole country.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16112	The next speaker is Mrs Heller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16130	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to refer briefly to the comments made by one of my previous speakers, Mrs Grossmann, because it seems to me that today she has confused her documents: What she has presented to us today was very, very similar to the SPÖ's proposals for a reform of pensions. On women's policy there is also one word: The ladies of SPÖ, who are particularly concerned about women's policy, are very much involved in topics that they have been putting on the tape since Johanna Dohnal. But they have not managed to implement it in the time when they have still played a significant role in women's policy. Our women's minister announced her goals again today. It will focus entirely on these issues, and it will also be able to implement its intentions in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Austria, we have a health system that is, in fact, one of the best in the world, Mr Green Forest. This health system is above all an essential engine for the economy: At least 10 percent of all employees in Austria are employed in this sector or at least in the subcontractor sector, and 86 percent of Austrians have also recognised health as their most important and primary objective. This alone says that the Austrian population is responsible for measures to be taken in this area and which, of course, will also contribute to maintaining the high medical standards, gives the greatest understanding. I particularly welcome the priorities of our Minister for Health Maria Rauch-Kallat, who has put her in the field of health care, and of course she has also formulated her objectives accordingly. It is important that prevention begins already in kindergarten, in folk school, because we are living at a time when the consequences of modern lifestyles are particularly affecting us; it is often detectable of exercise poverty and wrong nutrition, something that can also result in overweight, and above all there is also an increasing use of addiction. Of course, one also has to ask why the free health examination per year is only perceived by about 7 percent of the population in the sense of prevention. It is a kind of lack of acceptance of these precautions, and this is certainly also due to the fact that we have to be forced a little to our luck, or, as our Federal Minister has formulated, we need to have a very special incentive to undergo this precautionary examination. An improvement in our quality of life, our lifestyle is a very special challenge, and this is also worth an intensive information campaign. I admit that the entire health system needs far more than just information, so that it can be reformed accordingly, but ultimately, for all of us who are going to live longer, it means staying healthy for a long time – and for that it is precisely at the right time that we need the measures that we all have to carry and take, namely measures towards health care.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16184	The next speaker is Mr Rädler. Also 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16203	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Before I go to the chapter I would like to refer – unfortunately, Mrs Prammer is not here – to her statement that the ÖVP mayors are family-friendly, and she will take the evidence that it was the SPÖ mayors who made a very family-friendly policy. I know a SPÖ mayor, the mayor of my neighboring community, who has been in office for 40 years, and when it came to setting up a children's court, he meant to leave it to me. [[Abg. Steibl: For a long time!]] [[Abg. Steibl: Very well done!]] My community is an ÖVP community, and you'll find a children's horde where a beautiful transparency is moaning: Environmental-pattern municipality and social-pattern municipality Erlach. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was SPÖ's councillor Kranzl from Lower Austria present at the opening of this children's horde, because it is simply necessary that, if you are a community with a population increase of 16 percent, you create for families or for alone educational opportunities to accommodate your children from zero to ten years, either in full-day care or in afternoon care. In addition, we offer a children's check as well as a free care in the kindergarten in the afternoon. And I now ask Mrs Prammer: Where are the socialist mayors? – The neighboring mayor said: I do not do that with the “success” that two young families have moved out of this place because of child care and moved to my home community. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But allow me a word on today's debate: I hope that the ORF will bring a cut-off from the excited speech of Mr Cap. Then the supposed level of opinion of the SPÖ will have to be revised back down by 5 percent. What the Greens are going to do: There was so much talk about Mr Finanzminister's homepage. I would recommend looking at the Green Homepage: At www.noe.gruene.at a so-called peak box was established in Lower Austria: The Greens are looking for documents, file notes, for references, for witnesses, for example from the administration, for facts – supposed facts! – to pass on criminal acts. There people are asked to carry out espionage, to sharpen, to break justice... [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16273	Deputies! However, it can only be health espionage in this chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16291	I hope the Greens are also interested in health information. Otherwise they would not set up this homepage. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] But you're right, I'm coming back to the subject of health. Mr Grünewald, you meant that the conditions had to be changed. – Yes, the conditions really need to change! We still have a lot to do in the health field, when I think about the fact that we are actually experiencing a “grey revolution”: Over the last 30 years, it has doubled the number of 60-year-olds, i.e. we have to deal with new challenges, not only the municipalities, but also the countries and, of course, the federal government: the communities with care facilities, the countries also with such facilities – here we go modern ways in Lower Austria – and also the Federation. The Federation should also take into account the interests of the countries, and I am very confident that this will succeed with the State Health Officer of Lower Austria and with our Mrs Minister in promoting fundamental reforms to the establishment of national health funds. We simply need to combine intramural areas with extra-mural areas in order to achieve an optimization, an appropriate financial performance and an economic calculation – of course, from the point of view of optimum quality assurance in the health field. But the most important challenge will certainly be the merger and the single insurance company in the accident insurance sector, but also in the health insurance sector. Since, I believe, politics is required not to think in negative pictures, as in today's debate, but to look forward – in the sense of a comprehensive health system, which is eligible for funding and which also ensures quality in health care.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16337	The next speaker is Mr Preineder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16358	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Health is the highest good in our lives, and sometimes this is only known to us when we are sick. I believe that a good and forward-looking health policy must start with prevention, prevention, and a forward-looking health policy must also take into account the possibilities offered by medical and technical progress. It is therefore important to maintain the financial viability of our system. Otherwise we slide to a two-class medicine that we all don't want here, I think. A continuous increase in contributions cannot be the solution to the problem. The introduction of the chip card now offers the opportunity to switch to a fair cost-participation model. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This is not something new, but it exists in many areas, such as officials, traders and railway staff. An intelligent participation model brings cost transparency – everyone knows what services they take – strengthens their own responsibility and also represents a certain performance control for the patient. I think it is also a control element of this cost-participation model. Fees such as the health certificate fee or prescription fee cannot fulfil this task sufficiently. A socially-designed participation model can increase the efficiency of health care, secure precautionary medicine and make progress possible. I do not think that the system of participation is a burden – although it is always said that this is an increase in the burden – because we all pay in a system from which we all take out, and there is no third party paying. I invite you to make changes, because what changes has existed. Finally – I am the last speaker on this topic – the good news of the day: Since yesterday we know that the births in our country have increased by 3.9%. I believe that this is a positive signal for our country and for this policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16395	There are no further statements on budget capital health and women. That is why I am closing the debate on this budget capital. Internals Chapter 11: Internals
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16420	We come to the next chapter, Chapter 11: Interior. Mr Bundesminister Dr. Strasser is already present. First speaker is Mr Parnigoni. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16446	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In real terms, expenditure on internal security in Austria is falling, and thus, in real terms, security in Austria is falling at all, as the crime statistics show. Expenditure on internal security amounted to €1,73 billion in 2003 and 2004 and there was a minimal increase of 1.7 percent from 2002 to 2003, and there is nothing left to do in 2004. In 1999, then still under a Social Democratic Minister of the Interior, there was €1.717 billion for the Internal Chapter. Taking into account the inflation rate, it was worth far more than today's €1,73 billion. This is an alarm sign, ladies and gentlemen, because with these budgets of 2003 and 2004, which are too low, you take again of course personnel savings, overtime cuts, and thus fewer staff on the street, you take into account the maintenance of the partially scandalous conditions in the infrastructure, equipment and vehicle park of the guards. In the last three years, you, Mr. Federal Minister, have already withdrawn 2.2 billion schilling from internal security, i.e. 160 million €. They have deleted more than 1,700 plant sites in the individual guards, and the majority, despite their empty claims, came directly from the executive outside service. Now, in the two budgets of 2003 and 2004, there are also hundreds of planning posts being deducted. While you, Mr Federal Minister, are doing staff cuts without regard to losses, your arbitrary restructuring and implementation policy is expensive for us. They destroy a proven security structure so that you can implement your personal policy ideas. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Party Political!]] – Party political; I thank you for the correction! – You will destroy a proven structure to implement your Party-Political-Restraint Human Resources. This comes to us in so much an expensive way that two salaries must be paid in no less than 202 cases in Vienna alone, namely for those whom you have so to speak expelled from the service you have taken away from the post, and for those whom you have been unlawful for party political reasons on this position – and in most cases, as the vocationsssenat has shown! - have used it. Strass Personalrochaden are not only monochrome, they are also expensive for the taxpayer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The equipment is also further broken, although the working conditions for executives are dramatic. It's terrifying to see that we're on the 1st day of the year. In the executive's fleet on April 1, 2003, there were a number of vehicles with a kilometre of far more than 200 000 kilometres. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I’m also driving a car that’s over 200 000 kilometers...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! 447 executive cars – I don’t want to list where everywhere: at the Gendarmerie, police, the BKA and also at the Cobra – have over 200,000 kilometers on the tacho. I'm looking at the way that a corresponding persecution of various perpetrators will look like! High house! Of course, there are also chaotic states, for example, at the criminal offices in Vienna, where the officials tell me that they have to get their files out of boxes, because the so-called reforms, the destruction of the proven structures, are not yet completed and the criminal offices are not really summarized in one place. This also means that citizens in Vienna are sent across the districts if they want to give up an advertisement. High house! In contrast, expensive misprojects, such as ADONIS, cost taxpayers some money. In 2002 alone, the cost of consulting ADONIS was almost 10 million schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! There comes the thick end. At the moment, there is a media dispute between master talk, the company to implement it, and the Ministry of the Interior, and of course this is about money. In this context, the Minister – I say quite openly – has clearly failed, for he has not been concerned about ensuring as many users as possible from the federal states, from the blue light organizations, even from the federal army, and now the big end is: A lower number of users in this Of course, the area means significantly higher costs for each user than before, and therefore one organization drops down after another. And this, Mr. Federal Minister, is a lamentable achievement for a minister, a manager! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The consequences of this budget policy on internal security can be found today on the front page of the “Kurier” – you know it, ladies and gentlemen: Nearly 600 000 crimes – crime is increasing dramatically, this headline is. High house! If we produce and compare the 1999 crime report, then the 1999 report has been a success report, an absolute debacle in 2002! Ladies and gentlemen! I only take a few numbers: Compared to 1999, the number of crimes has increased by almost 20 percent, the crime against foreign assets has increased by more than 28 percent, serious property damage increased by 37 percent, theft by 46.4 percent, heavy theft by 63.3 percent, theft by 27.5 percent. In the same period, the education rate fell from 51.4 percent to just over 40 percent. And this is disastrous, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I support the Mayor of Vienna in his statement that 1,000 police are more necessary for Vienna to carry out prevention in order to finally take action against this high number of offences and against the falling figure of information. And the President of the Police of Vienna is also right if he demands another 100 Kripo officials. It is necessary: Act, Minister, because what you are currently responsible for is not good for this country and is bad for security in Austria! You have been asked to leave this way at last!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16520	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16538	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Your speech, Mr Parnigoni, was not very realistic! I also lacked objectivity! You made an issue today, in which it is said – and you just said it – that the 1999 budget cut by €160 million from the budget to the 2003 budget. Mr Parnigoni! In 1999 we had €1,685 million. Now we have a budget of €1,725 million. – It becomes clear that your bill and your budget research cannot completely vote on anything! I therefore ask for a little more objectivity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Austria was, is and remains a safe country. And that the path that we have taken in the last three years cannot be the wrong one also shows that Austria is the number one security country in the ranking of 49 industrialized states. That's not about it, but it's the result of the hard work done by the Interior Minister Strasser and his team: In 2000, when he became an interior minister, he began to work on the reform site in the interior and to address structural changes. For example, many special units of the criminal police were grouped into a Federal Criminal Office, which works very well. There is today a uniform training rail for police and gendarmerie. We have a slim administration, and it has begun to reduce non-executive tasks. For example, the Fund Office and the Reporting and Passing Department were outsourced. Furthermore, a merger of police and gendarmerie car workshops has been carried out, and there has also been an enormous modernisation in the area of police and gendarmerie accommodation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] This has not happened in the last ten years among SPÖ ministers! 78 new gendarmerie services and police services were completed, 55 services are under construction, and 87 services are under planning. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: The result also looks like that!]] However, this does not include the entire accommodation area organized and made available by the BIG. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] – Please listen to me now, otherwise you don’t understand me! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Why don't you talk about the services that were locked up?]] A word on criminal statistics: It is certainly not a gratifying event if one finds that crime has increased. [[Abg. May. Worm: You're right!]] We don't need to beautify anything at all, that's a fact. But it's clear: Austria is not an island, there are generally increasing crime rates across Europe, and we are still very good at that. [[New call of the abg. May. Worm.]] We are still very good at this, otherwise we would not be in the first place, Mrs. Wurm, I have to tell you. In any case, you have to clarify something: Crime is increasing, but there are also increasing levels of education, which are very much increasing in reconnaissance rates. A total of 23 000 crimes were more clarified. [[Abg. May. Worm: Tell them!]] That is, I think, a great performance of police and gendarmerie outside on site, which is being performed every day in the performance of their service! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There were also 1 300 more perpetrators on display. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] – Listen to me, otherwise you don’t know how it goes on! In connection with the personnel situation, I would now like to give an example and mention the year 1996 because ex-minister is sitting here. This year, SPÖ-Mandatare, including Mr Leikam, called for 1 000 additional planning posts. [[Abg. May. Worm: That was Kiss in 1999!]] Do you know what came out at the end of the year? – We had fewer than 200 planning sites because there was a budget consolidation! But I take note of that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] So let's leave the church in the village! We all wish ourselves more staff – that is no question at all. On the one hand, we are trying to maintain a reasonable budget, on the other hand, it is, of course, necessary that we provide the necessary personnel for ensuring comprehensive security. However, I am very confident: With 1. September we also receive 100 plantations from the customs guard, and with 1. ==References====External links== Over 600 people are in training. If we calculate this together, there will be a greater increase in staff in the interior in the next few days, and we need to take note of that. I do not see the staff situation as drastic as Mr Parnigoni. Finally, it is also my concern to thank colleagues on the spot for the great performance they provide every day, whether by day or by night. [[Abg. May. Worm: They will also thank you for your support!]] Finally, I have one more request: When it comes to the life-time model in the executive field in the near future, I also expect the opposition to support myself accordingly! I would like to invite you to this!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16685	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. The speaking time is gladly set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16703	Good evening, Minister of State! Dobar vecer, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! You are only so short of federal ministers that you were here at budget debates first, but the ladies and gentlemen, who have been working in the Interior for a little longer, know that we Greens – represented several times by my person, but I also remember Rudi Anschober and Peter Pilz – have always taken on the occasion of budget debates on the Internal Chapter to talk about the subjective and objective sense of security of the Austrian population and what conclusions politics – and the budget is the policy cast into figures – draw from it. What has been demonstrated in the last few days – specifically yesterday and today in the media discussion and on the basis of the publication of the latest figures – in terms of crime on the one hand, and in terms of information quotas on the other, and what we have heard now, has confirmed me very strongly in all that we have repeatedly presented in recent years. In recent years, I have started all my speeches about this by saying: Thank God Austria is such a safe country! Thank God we have a safety executive that works perfectly in many areas! We can all be proud of this, and it is good for the National Council to thank the ladies and gentlemen who are responsible for the security of the Austrian population, namely those who, as I would like to say a little militaryly now, are “on the front”, that is, where security is at risk! I believe that it is important, above all, to say this, because it is also possible to refer to the legitimacy of putting your finger on those wounds and critical points where it does not work so well, both with regard to the subjective sense of security of the population and with regard to objective factors. What I have heard in the last days is indeed a reason to be anxious. There are no changes in some areas of crime. However, there are, as the Minister said, increases in certain types of mass crime. The Minister cannot do this because there are circumstances that go far beyond what Austria itself can influence, purely from the geopolitical point of view and effect. But what gives me the greatest cause for concern is the fact that the education rate is falling. I am now not the great expert to know what the real causes are. However, I am a very critical and above all also an eager observer of the work of the Austrian police. – I now put everything together under the term “police” in order not to always have to say “gendarmerie and police” or “security executive”, because we do not yet know what we will call the last thing. And because I have observed everything so closely in recent years, I have a suspicion that you, Mr Minister, as I hope you can disarm, and provely depress! I believe that the policy of the last two and a half or three years has led to uncertainty within the security executive, because one does not know how it will continue, where one will close posts, how one will be put together and where one will make arbitrary changes. – I’m just saying this in one sentence now, I didn’t exactly hear whether Rudi Parnigoni mentioned this again: The entire policy of post-ordering in your department does not exactly motivate police officers and gendarmen in Austria who have to do their work in times when the challenge for those who are “at the front” – under geese feet – is increasing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] International and cross-border crime is a phenomenon which, of course, is more widespread today than it was 15 years ago. I now mention, for example, East opening, but the problem goes far beyond that, because in this context it is not only the neighbouring countries. Minister! There must be explanations, and I can only ask you now and ask for all that has arisen from the policy of unrest in recent months and what You have to take on your hat directly and directly as a political partner, because that is the greatest uncertainty for the population! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With regard to justice, I say again and again: The worst thing is to talk too much about case law and justice as a whole. And it is similar with regard to the police: People are immediately unsure if they need to hear such dramatic discussions. I therefore say “must” because the discussions really give rise to unrest. In view of this, I share the criticism expressed by many in every respect on the basis of the recently published figures, and I share the concerns, because we too are very concerned about these developments. – First of all, ladies and gentlemen. Federal Minister! The time is always very short in budget debates. That is why I come to the second issue, which is very busy with your department right now, namely the issue of dealing with refugees and thus with the rule of law in Austria. Minister! This winter we had the opportunity to talk intensively about the need for change in the Austrian asylum system as a whole. I've never put it in apologies – also You know, Federal Minister Strasser, that there is a great deal of need for action in this area. Well-marked: I'm saying asylum now. I believe today, as I did months ago and years ago, that the Austrian Asylum Act, with all the weaknesses it contains and which we also criticized in its decision-making since 1991, is not the problem, but that the problem is in operation. The real problems arise, for example, with the resources and with regard to the staff being made available, in other words, in the way in which this law is, as it were, dealt publicly with. Federal Minister! You are a big problem in the Austrian asylum system! I'm just saying it and I'm just saying: A problem is you, your view and your way of dealing with how the rule of law is seen and interpreted in Austria and how you can deal with it as Head of Division! If there are higher court decisions, such as those relating to federal care, then one hears of the political authority who has to implement this – and this is not about whether he wants to or does not want to or does not fit him or does not, but there are highly judicial decisions to be implemented –: What's the matter with me? We'll see! That's where we're going. Why does the Supreme Court interfere? – This is exactly the mood that is being prepared so that you can come and say: Now I come with the hammer of the new asylum law, in which we no longer have to worry about constitutional principles at all – which are not only Austrian but also applicable throughout Europe, and the Geneva Convention on Refugees is still above all that! With regard to the Government's proposal, which was sent to Parliament at the last minute before the summer, and which is now before the National Council, we have not only agreed on the oral basis but also in writing. We as the opposition party – and certainly the SPÖ has also done so – have said: We cannot influence what the government parties, which have the majority, put on their priority list. However, the National Council, rather than the Government, is still adopting the laws, and that is why there should be intensive deliberations in such fundamental changes also in the National Council. This is also a matter of confidence in these legislations. If laws are brought into Parliament, where the NGOs, the church organizations and those who work directly with the refugees, or so to speak with the clients, are left to the left in brutal terms, my boss says. – then at least the National Council will not like a sloppy, superficial and non-detailed discussion of this law, for we ourselves are guilty of it, Mr Federal Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Right!]] I'm just saying it all in a cursory way: The points are probably known to you. It has been written a lot about it in the last days and weeks. The UNHCR goes to all Members, as well as to you in the past and probably even now hourly, with the request, to rethink what is on the table. It is not the accusation that everything you present to us should be, as it were, null and void. I did not do that either, because I consider it unrealistic and because I certainly respect the political will of the other side. It's in a democracy that's just one of the stronger ass. However, when it comes to questioning constitutional principles, European principles and the rule of law – keyword: Prohibition of innovation, keyword: Third-country clause, you know it very well – then, Mr Minister, the fun is stopped, because we have promised each other, in order to say it correctly, a proper parliamentary procedure! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A month ago, I thought we were sharing this idea, and I trust you will support us on this issue. You are not a member of the National Council, but you are the spokesperson for the ÖVP Group in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't have much time. Therefore, Mr Federal Minister, allow me now to refer to and explain an amendment which I must read formally, on a subject which is very serious. Minister! We have already discussed this in the Committee on Budgets: This is the question of the financial emergency and need, the financial needs of the Jews in Austria, specifically of the Israeli cultural community. Mr Minister, I know that you are in constant contact with Mr. Dr. Muzicant in one, almost I would say, because this was also the order of Mr. Federal Chancellor to you and is still there to find solutions. That is one of the points why the Israeli cultural community has done this public and so dramatic call for help, which in this form may also be annoying for some, because they are not used to it. What are we non-Jews used to among the Austrians? – That the Austrian Jews have always held back in the last 50 years, have always been quiet, have always sought consensus, have always been grateful, have always reached out to the hand, have never been excited. That's not the case now. Now they are self-confident and therefore also loud – and for some unpleasantly loud, as they do not want to hear it – because it is really about what the President of the Federal Association of Israeli Cultural Communities in Austria expresses when he says: It's about our substance! Our institutions are at risk! We need to restrict or close institutions, because the money that the state gives us in funding is no longer sufficient. The question of security is one of the most critical issues here, because an incredibly large part of the budget of the cultural community flows into this area. That is why, together with the SPÖ Group, we have already tabled an amendment to this effect in the Committee on Budgets, but also now in the second reading, which I am now allowed to read: [[Quoted print version removed]] This has now sounded so objective; I explain it in two sentences: Once again, it is a possibility to cover the security costs incurred annually by the Israeli cultural community – the President has spoken of 60,000 hours of man-hours to be borne by the cultus community – to cover this loss, which arises annually, and to secure it through public money; yes, ladies and gentlemen, through public support, through grants to the Israeli cultural community! Jews in Austria should have the assurance that we do everything we can to give them – and now I stretch the bow back to the beginning of my remarks – the subjective and objective sense of security, which only they can define in the subjective sense. That costs money, and we should confess to this money! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schweisgut: You have to take the application, otherwise it will not take place...!]] Mr Strasser, since I think you are now a little bit familiar with your bad pages, but also some good ones, I hope that in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats – and you are an unthinking black person in Austria – you will still assert by tomorrow evening that this amendment will be unnecessary either by an initiative that we set together or, if not otherwise, by the government groups. Minister, I'm building on you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16843	The corresponding amendments to the Federal Finance Act for 2003 and the Federal Finance Act for 2004 are properly supported and are under negotiation. The amendment to the Federal Financial Act for the year 2004 has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16927	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16947	Ladies and gentlemen! The budget of the Ministry of the Interior is also influenced by the savings policy that has become necessary because of the high debt from the past. But all of us are committed to this austerity policy, because every euro that can be saved at interest rates – for example, in old currency, we have to pay 100 billion schillings annually for interest rates – any such euro or even, in old currency, any such schilling can be used for other purposes, for example for security. Of course, the situation, as we have now, namely, 591 000 offences a year, cannot really be taken by anyone. But claiming that the high number of offences is only related to the fact that there is too little executive, is simply wrong; for for example, the number of pocket thieves has increased enormously, but you can't put a policeman in every tram car, Mrs. Deputies! [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, so...!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: What about the robbery? Robbery and heavy robbery?]] Evident is that around 50 percent of the crimes are committed by perpetrators who come from abroad. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That's it!]] It can be seen in a mirror that 50 percent of the prisoners are foreigners. This also means that they belong to organised crime. Pocket thieves are not an opportunity thieves who eventually get into a bag and think: I get a bit of money!, but these are members of a criminal organization. Those who work in this way often have nothing or not much of the criminal act, and the bosses cannot be held responsible. If one of the members of organized crime is brought to justice, then it does not change the organization at all. One offender is exchanged with another, and that is so dangerous to organized crime. I am not saying this as an excuse, but only as an explanation or clarification that, while the police are extremely important to prevent criminal acts, the prevention of such criminal acts is not only a problem of executives, a question of the quantity of executives. I would also like to say on this occasion: Justice is particularly difficult for pocket thieves to take action against them. For example, if you catch a pocket thief in a single offence and have a lot of cash in it, it can only be held responsible for the single pocket theft, but not for the rest of the money. We have repeatedly called for the perpetrator to prove where he has the money to be found with him. If he has no employment, he will probably assume that he has also withdrawn the remaining amount from criminal proceedings. But so far no one has implemented this suggestion. It would be really very important for us to get better hold of the pocket theft, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it would be essential not to let these people, who have chosen Austria as a criminal destination, enter the country at all. Therefore, the provisions on entry need to be made even more stringent. Border controls need to be made even more effective. Only, I would like to throw it down, then SPÖ and Greens will soon come back to the plan and say that we want to shoot Austria and that hardly anyone has the opportunity to come in to Austria. That means it's practically a balance act that the Minister of the Interior has to do here. But I am sure that stricter laws and stricter surveillance of borders would help the criminals who come to Austria to fight their livelihood here or build up their organised crime, the craftsmanship. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Raccia, which are repeatedly cited in the newspapers, also shows that many asylum seekers are criminals and, in particular, commit drug crime. We have therefore also drawn up the new asylum law – the officials of the Ministry of the Interior have done so, and we have also put forward our proposals – in order to introduce a bar, where asylum seekers obviously only come to Austria to commit criminal acts here. I do not want to go ahead with the asylum debate, but there is an urgent need for action. There are 40 000 asylum seekers in Austria, so to speak, in the previous year, who have also filed their asylum applications in Austria and are either still here or, if the asylum procedure has already ended, could be postponed or submerged. At any rate, the Minister of the Interior has found that 90 percent of these 40 000 asylum seekers cannot provide asylum grounds at all, but are actually immigrants who misuse the asylum law and thus want to stay in Austria. Mrs Stoisits said that it was necessary to consider whether the asylum law was also subject to the rule of law, and that is what I fully believe. This has already happened in advance, ladies and gentlemen. As you now call for a proper parliamentary procedure: It is obvious that the asylum law will be subject to parliamentary treatment within the Committee on the Interior! I don't think you should question that now. There has always been a proper parliamentary procedure, but you act as if it were yours. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Stoisits! Why, for example, the ban on innovation would not comply with the rule of law, that would interest me! In the Austrian legal system, there is a ban on innovation in the various laws. Why should this not exist in the asylum procedure? – Of course, I can imagine that various NGOs are storming, because they know that the lack of the ban on innovation is now leading to many asylum seekers taking advantage of the opportunity to apply for asylum after another or to repeatedly introduce new reasons to delay the asylum procedure. This means that you will still see that the ban on innovation is a particularly important legal instrument. We'll certainly do that, it's also constitutional. Minister! In connection with drug dealers, I would like to point out an old liberal demand, namely the demand to introduce a subway police for subways, which specializes in discovering criminal acts there, whether it be for drug trafficking or against trafficking or whatever. [[Abg. May. Worm: But we have no subway in Innsbruck! It only has one city a subway!]] The Vienna lines obviously tolerate the drug deal, they do nothing by themselves. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: nonsense!]] That is why the drug trade in the Vienna metro lines has become an inevitable size. That is to say, it is urgently necessary that you as Minister of the Interior, that the Federal Police Directorate of Vienna intervenes there. I am convinced that the creation of an own subway police could really restrict the expatriate drug trade. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! [[Abg. May. Worm: You want your own police for Vienna! That'll be... glad!]] The latest press reports show that there are always shelters for drug dealers in asylum homes. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Don't you need a club police?]] I think you really need to be more consistent with the owners and managing directors of this home. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Do you need a FPÖ club police?]] We always hear of the population that homes have become the center for drug dealers. Unfrozen is sold before passers-by, you know you're not being caught. I really believe that there is an urgent need for action in Vienna in particular. Coming to the end: Mr. Strasser, in your press release, you stated that there is an enormous increase in crime worldwide. Obviously, this should be so, otherwise Vienna could not have been declared the safest country among 49 states with this high crime, which we regret now. But for us, it is not a reason for satisfaction that Vienna or Austria has been declared the safest country, but, Minister, please mobilise the executive in the fight against crime! Mobilize all the forces that are available, because we want to achieve that the criminal actions in Austria will be reduced again and will not increase further!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e17091	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Total time of reason: 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e17109	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The government has decided in its government programme to further consolidate the Austrian government budget. We will carry this path fully in our house and, as we have gone in recent years, we will continue in the future. We have been doing our work consistently for three years in four major areas: We'll cut off superfluous, expensive double-liquids. We focus on our core tasks. We saved in the headquarters and intensified the presence on site. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Security!]] We create modern, professional, efficient security structures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who says that?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This path has been crowned by success, because in the European comparison we have one of the lowest rates of crime. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: We've seen that!]] The Austrians feel safer than they did three years ago. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Last year, in 2002, we were declared the safest country in the world. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Even if you do not like it, these are the objective figures, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You have no...!]] That is, this subjective feeling and the objective figures confirm that in 2002 more crimes were resolved and more crime suspects were identified, ladies and gentlemen. That also means – and I have to say that in all clarity – that we do not let Austria talk insecurely! I do not let anything bad come about the executive, because it has not deserved it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Enlightenment rates have increased in six federal states, which is a result of the excellent work of the executives. But we have to look very closely – in that I agree with all my previous speakers – where there are problems, and where they exist, there is also a need to see and address them. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's it!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: We've seen her for a long time!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The problem is you, Minister!]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Jarolim! If my predecessors had started to introduce the reforms in Vienna years ago, we would have a better result in Vienna than we had in 2002. That's the problem! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are not afraid to go this way. Although we know that it is pleasant to continue writing somewhere on and on. [[Abg. Eder: Vienna has never been as insecure as it is now!]] But the security situation has changed, the crime situation has changed. The obsolete structures were not an answer to what happened in Vienna. Why's in? Vienna suffered the Enlightenment Rate? – Because the structures were preserved for decades! We have gone this way, and the successes of your partner Horngacher give us the right, Mr. Deputies: [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Eder]] The number of drug deaths has decreased, and drug education has increased by double in three months last year. [[Abg. May. Worm: How does the robbery look like?]] What we seized on drugs has doubled. The way we are going will continue consistently, then we will return to Vienna, where, unfortunately, we did not get there because of a late police reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I can say something else with some interest. [[Abg. Eder: You made it from Vienna Chicago, which the liberals always wanted to prevent!]] Some from your circles are criticized that our police catch up with too few robbers, too few thieves, too few murderers, too few dealers. [[Abg. Eder: That's much more...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] If you have the patience to just hear the arguments, Mr Deputies, then I am willing to hold on a little until you have calmed down a little.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e17359	Mr President, you are now making a brief call – and now the Minister is back to it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] The call for action is over, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e17383	It is criticized by some that we catch too few thieves, too few murderers, and from circles of justice we are criticized for bringing too many murderers, too many thieves, to many robbers to justice. [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: This is a groundless naughtiness!]] I think it's like many other things. The police are doing a good job for the safety of the population, and the people are right to do so, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's where he has to laugh!]] Now to the 2003 and 2004 budget. First point: Mr Parnigoni – Mr Parnigoni – prefers not to be in the hall – it is not only about how much money one spends, it is also about where one spends, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ellwall: And how meaningful!]] But, of course, we can spend – and do it – more money in 2003 and 2004 than in the previous year. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, for your elite units! There's enough money!]] That is also said because it was addressed: I have calculated the per capita expenditure we spend on safety in Austria because You always compare this with the budgets of my predecessors. In 1999, an average of €210.60 was spent per capita, according to the 2004 budget, we spend €216.25 per Austrian. This is an increase in the amount spent on security per Austrian citizen. That's the truth! Try to calculate that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will receive 1 000 additional employees in 2004. This too is a difference too early. As you have referred to the passenger cars, Mr Parnigoni: 400 cars with more than 200 000 kilometers and an average of about 120 000 kilometres with almost 5,000 vehicles in the Ministry of the Interior – this is economical and efficient, how we use our resources. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Some third thing is also very clear: We are continuing this step in the renewal of the security structures of Austria very consistently. I am very grateful that the government programme allows us to tackle the combination of police and gendarmerie guards to a “team 04” of the new executives. We will have the first steps on this path to decision over the next few months. I assume that we can start this merger in the second half of 2004 and that we can complete it at the end of the legislative period. This is the way that Austrian security needs to ensure that we have modern security structures and good jobs for our employees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the number of staff. Ladies and gentlemen! I must say this in clarity, in particular to the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ We have saved where it was necessary, namely in the administration. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Yes, in all clarity!]] What you are saying and giving up here in terms of numbers and suspicions, that is, with confidence, the untruth, the untruth that cannot be left here in the House! They tell the Austrian and the Wiener population the untruth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can come to the facts: ==References== January 2003 had more security guards in Austria and Vienna in foreign service than I had from my predecessor with the 1. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: More from ÖAAB!]] That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. January 2003 saw 7 690 security guards in Austria. These are around 22 police officers and gendarmen more than on the 1st. January 2000. In Vienna, 4 276 security guards were employed outside. That's about 39 cops more than on the 1st. January 2000. And there I can ask the mayor of Vienna in every form: If today he demands that 1 000 policemen be recruited in Vienna, why does he not have 2nd place? January 2000 requires 1 039 police officers to be recruited in Vienna? – May I also ask the opposition’s speakers to answer this question? In addition, we have 528 police officers and gendarmen in training, who will take up their duties in the next few months. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen: Open or say your numbers You are not aware of the untruth about the personal situation of the police and the Gendarmerie in the foreign service in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: But 130 waiting rooms have locked you up!]] Something else has been clarified – that has not been said by you so far –: Even if the “curer” claims – I believe in today’s or yesterday’s edition – if the “curer” Wachkamer in Wien wants to lock, may be the Austrian Interior Minister, as long as he is called Strasser Ernst, will not block a watchroom in Vienna! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The facts speak another language!]] So that this is said in all clarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Gaál: (quickly applause) No waiting room is locked? You can only praise that!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: I look at that! No guard room is locked! We'll write that down.]] Some sentences to the Israeli Cultus community. Here again, I am concerned that we are presenting the facts. In Vienna alone, about – I do not want to mention the number consciously because I want to make a contribution to security – 25 Jewish objects are constantly and temporarily monitored by Austrian executive forces. A total of up to 100 security guards are used for this purpose. Depending on the safety situation, additional measures will be taken very quickly and immediately in agreement with those responsible in the Cultus community. In addition, with “we” I mean the Austrian Federal Governments since the beginning of the 1980s, we have made available a very large amount, which I do not want to mention for safety reasons, for the provision of security facilities for endangered objects. I am very sorry that I have to say this very clearly that the way in which this discussion is carried out to the public also makes the work of our security executives more difficult and therefore does not improve security for the Israeli cultural community. I invite everyone here to return to intense, trusting conversations. This tone, which unfortunately came to the public with regard to security issues, may be useful to someone we do not want at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few words about the asylum law. Yes, we have presented a novel – it is here in Parliament for discussion and decision-making – which has two major objectives: [[Abg. Parnigoni: Since Wednesday!]] First of all, it aims to help those persons who need asylum quickly and immediately to do so. Secondly, this is also a fundamental principle of this novel, which we represent: Immigrants must adhere to immigration schemes for which there is a migration rate in Austria. [[Abg. Parnigoni: 20 percent less!]] Austria cannot become a point of contact for economic refugees throughout Europe, while avoiding the immigration rate. We can't answer that. This does not help these people either, for it is a pity, dishonest and unfair thing that we are developing systems that take years of asylum, with the result that these people then have to return quite properly. Here it is more open and clearer to clarify quickly and then to create a way for these people to be able to return and those who need asylum can really stay here quickly. That's our way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I quote, as far as the new asylum law we have here in Parliament is concerned, an unwarranted witness, namely the mayor of Traiskirchen, who is a high official of the Social Democratic Party. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mayor Knotzer said in his speech a few days ago that he supported the new asylum law designed by Minister Strasser and his employees. Knotzer – Quote –: It is important that abuse is prevented and that all those who need asylum are quickly granted asylum. - Quote. He doesn't understand the criticism of the intellectual left, Knotzer. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing to add to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can ask the House to continue to support the successful work of our Austrian safety executive – and I thank you for it. [[Abg. May. Worm: But we can say what?]] I thank the Austrian population for the support we get in every village, in every market, in every city to the big city of Vienna. I would like to thank those Members who support the work of the Austrian security executive massively through their vote. Let us not speak Austria insecurely, and let us appreciate the work of the Austrian security executive as what it is: as an important contribution to social peace in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e17678	Mr Gaál has now come to speak. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e17696	Of course, 4 minutes are decidedly too few if I may reply to the Minister for the Interior. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Gaál is for that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: For safety without trams!]] Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Minister of the Interior, it is, of course, an exaggeration if you say that we say the untruth here. [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] As far as I can speak here for my group, I can say: I'm sure that's not the case. But allow me, on the basis of the short speaking time, to address two topics which are very important to me politically and professionally. Firstly, it is civil protection in the sense of comprehensive protection of the population and, secondly, what you have repeatedly mentioned today, the security here in Vienna. First of all, Mr. Federal Minister. Thanks to your support in Bälden, we are able to set up 2 000 security information centres throughout Austria. They have provided us with the financial resources to set up centres of a network of citizens who create trust and security. Similarly successful is the Children's Safety Solympiade Safety Tour 2003, for which we will have the final event tomorrow, during which the Bundeswinner will be eroded, which we can also perform with your support. She's gonna blow all the records. More than 35,000 children were on the way to the excretions at the district and country level, and tomorrow the Bundeswinner is being eroded. We are particularly concerned with teaching Austrian children in a playful way about safety and proper behaviour in emergency and crisis situations. The concept has gone up completely. We have guest classes – you know – from Slovenia, Hungary, Czech Republic, Italy. This has also been brought to the attention of the EU. Greece is interested in this event, and one is to set up a funding project within the framework of the EU and to carry it out at Austrian level. Federal Minister! We like to share this success with you, but unfortunately this success cannot be transferred unsightly to the security situation in Vienna. This is a particular concern for me as a Vienna Member. In particular, Mr Federal Minister, it is the rigorous savings measures of the Federal Government, which, of course, do not stop even before the security executive and have negative effects on Vienna. At present, a reform is hunting the other. Now, the unification of the guards is on the political agenda. The reform projects you mentioned earlier sound very modern and forward-looking, Mr Federal Minister, but reality speaks a completely different language. We are facing an increasing rate of crime and a falling awareness rate. This, of course, has to do with your reform, Minister of State. The impact of the executive was not increased, proven security structures in the police and criminal system, which worked very well, were simply smashed. The number of security guards, the criminal officers, has been drastically reduced. There is simply no contact for the citizens, Mr. Federal Minister. That is why we simply need to strengthen and increase the protection and security of the population. To save security, Minister of State, is at least the wrong signal. But you do. That is why this budget does not agree with us. We reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e17752	Mr Ellwall. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e17770	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Austria is the safest country in Europe, even in the world. [[Abg. Eder: This is stupid! That's not true!]] Dear colleagues from the opposition! Listen I would ask you to present Austria as a country of security policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Eder: That's it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The internal budget chapter is particularly important for our citizens. In particular, our citizens have intensive contact with the administration of the interior, which is why the work of the executive officials is also most perceived. A proof of the excellent work is the 2002 Security Report, which notes that the education rate has increased in six federal states. In this context, I thank all the executive employees for their excellent work. Now a few words on the current asylum law Novelle. 37 047 people sought asylum in Austria in 2002. This is an increase of 23 percent compared to 2001. If you put this in relation to 1 000 people each and compare it with other countries, Austria is at the top of the list with 4.6% before Sweden with 3.7 percent, Germany with 0.9 percent and Italy with 0.1%. A reform of the Asylum Act is therefore urgently needed in order to reduce the duration of the procedure in order to respond to the current situation – enlargement of the European Union – and thus to grant asylum seekers who actually need asylum in the future. It is equally clear, however, that asylum abuse, according to a study, has to be reduced to a minimum of more than 85 percent of applicants. It was striking that, in personal discussions with UNHCR representatives, these agreed with the government template in general, as opposed to the media after these talks. For me, the suspicion of the partyity of the representatives of UNHCR in Vienna has clearly hardened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Federal Minister Strasser has begun important and long overdue reforms in the past legislative period. These measures will now continue. The interior resort needs the necessary resources to do this. With total expenditure of €1,725 million and €1,730 million respectively for 2003 and 2004, the Ministry is based on the principles of economy and sustainability. Now an example of the successful restructuring measures: Under Federal Minister Strasser it has succeeded in outsourcing the field of civil service. The 2003 and 2004 budgets each provide a little more than €38 million, which are very well-designed. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: For whom was the outsourcing a success?]] The outsourcing to civil service administration Ges.m.b.H. has brought benefits to all parties involved. The civil servants in particular benefit from the flexible and customer-friendly work of this newly created society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In personal discussions with civil servants, I was able to convince myself that they were satisfied with this institution. Here we have a big throw together! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are now facing an even greater challenge, namely the creation of a single executive body, which should include police, gendarmerie, shipping police and customs guards. This will be one of the largest reform steps in the Second Republic. The success of the course has already resulted in the combination of training and training. Double-tracks are abolished, a uniform level of training is developed. The executive will therefore be prepared for the new challenges such as EU enlargement, the fight against international organised crime and international terrorism. The main objectives of this reform are to further increase the impact of executives, increase road safety, maximum external presence and simplify the administration in the interests of citizens. The discharge of the executive of foreign activities is also particularly important in this context. In preparation for this reform, a project team was set up by Federal Minister Strasser, the so-called “Team 04”, led by Lieutenant Franz Lang, to develop a concept for merger by 2004. According to the Court of Auditors, the long-term savings effect is expected to be around €150 million. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Significant reforms are a command of the hour. The predecessors of Federal Minister Strasser left already developed concepts in the drawer. In contrast, Minister Strasser recognizes the changed environment and now implements the necessary reforms in the sense and for the benefit of our citizens. I thank him for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e17858	Mrs Haidlmayr is now speaking. The speaking time is adjusted to 6 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e17878	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Ellmauer, said that the Minister had achieved a “great throw” in connection with civil service. – That’s true, but he has not said what a throw, namely the throw-out, the throw-out of civil service from federal competence. Yes, Minister, you have succeeded! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kößl: Talk to the civil servants!]] You know, Minister Strasser, it has never been a secret to anyone in Austria that civil service has always been an area that has bothered you. And your civil service novels, which you made in 2001... – can you please listen to me, Minister? [[in the direction of the Federal Minister of State, Dr. Strasser, who is sitting on the government bank, speaking to a member of the government bank]] Is it possible that you can...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e17920	Federal Minister, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e17935	How “important” to you civil service, Minister, have you already demonstrated more or less when you take office by completely ruining civil service. You said you wanted to reform him – how did you say? – from head to body. – Expenses are you that you have ruined it – and not reformed it. Minister! – There's nothing to grin around! – Do you know that all civil servants have to live below the poverty line? [[Abg. Scheibner: And not the basics?]] Are you aware of this, Mr Minister, and how are you? And do you still believe that this is a big throw that you've managed? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister, you always boast that you were civil servants yourself. Yeah, that's right! But They have been able to provide civil service under much better conditions than the civil servant can today. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: That's not true!]] Minister! The income of civilian servants has been halved in recent years! 15 years ago they had the double of what they have today. Although the cost of living has increased, civil servants receive only half as much as they used to. They've become much poorer. And it's really a question of the family's financial resources, whether a person can or can't do civil service, because if the family doesn't come back to finance the civil servant during his civil service, then he simply can't and simply can't do civil service, because it's just not financially possible because it's not possible. Minister! With 200 € per month, no person in Austria can only somehow spend himself. That's a thing of impossibility, and you can't ask civilian servants to do that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you are all here pretending that civil service is important to you, I ask you why you treat the men who do civil service so badly. Civil service is important to you only if you are bent on exploiting civilian servants by allowing them to provide social services in the communities and in the social sectors, which otherwise you would have to buy from the public authorities for expensive money. That's your only motive why you want civilians: You can use it more or less than low-cost workers! [[Abg. Murauer: But they don't have to go! It's not a commitment yet!]] Mr Murauer, it is not an obligation, but everyone who thinks a little bit, and anyone who has a little self-confidence, makes civil service, and that is why so many men still do civil service today, because they simply bear responsibility for this country and assume this social responsibility! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The basic defense servants do this too!]] [[Abg. Prince: And what about the basic military servants?]] This must be well written to them, and for that they must not be insulted or treated worse. That's the difference! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Groundmen and civilians!]] Mr. Minister, you are always talking about the fact that you still have such a big backlog in civil service. We've been talking, and I told you at the time how you could put the backstower on zero within a year: Shorten civil service to eight months, then there would be at least another equality between military service and civil service! If you do, Mr Minister, we have at least a first step towards equality. But you don't want them either. – I can imagine why you're not trying to do this. At the same time, however, regret that the costs will be too high for you! This is a total contradiction. [[Abg. Murauer: Sorry, Mrs. Haidlmayr!]] Mr. Minister that you are now in civil service in a Ges.m.b.H. Having ridded, is really a strong piece. I wish, Mr Minister, that you have never had anything left for civil service, and that, after you have done away with it, civil service will no longer be in your competence in the future, in the interior area, because in any case he has lost nothing but is transferred to the social sector. After all, 90 percent of civil servants serve in the social field, so it is also questionable why he is under the Federal Minister for Internal Affairs. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Foreign service and commemorative service should actually be the matter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because in this area our young men abroad do very good work for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! They should also be willing to thank the foreign servants for their work, instead of always treating the civilians as what you think they are more or less for, namely for those who want to push away from military service. [[Abg. Ellwall: That's not true!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] These are people who take responsibility, social responsibility for the state! Take note of this! If we did not have civilians, we would look bad in the social field! Mr. Kößl, you can also ask that in your community. You'll find you'd be all stupid without civil servants. I would like to express my express thanks to the civil servants for their work. And I can promise that I will continue to work for them. Mr Minister, even if your resistance is still so great: One day will be You'll be glad if you get someone else doing the job in the social field. And, Minister, that you have pushed civilians below the poverty line, you have to admit that and you have to stand for it. And that you once were civil servants, Minister, that doesn't count! It's just how you deal with the civilians today, and that's bad!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18132	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. Requested time: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18152	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High officials of the Ministry of the Interior! My now following critical words may seem somewhat strange. But I am outside them because I believe that it cannot at least be so that the Minister of the Interior is said to be guilty that the crime figures have increased so exorbitantly last year. There are a variety of reasons that are decisive for this. So you won't be able to do it that easy. But I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is certainly not the right words to say today in the light of criminal statistics: We don't let Austria talk insecurely! When yesterday’s “Kronen Zeitung ” entitled: Every day already eight robberys, then one cannot say at the same time that the subjective sense of security in Austria has increased. It's just not like that! If you know that there is an increase of 13.2 percent in criminal acts, you must not take this to your attention, but you must analyse it carefully and counter it. This is how my speech can be understood here, namely as a contribution to the fact that one really works together to counter a threatening development – and the development is indeed threatening for internal security in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not only that the number of criminal offences has increased, such as robbery plus 35 percent, heavy robbery plus 29 percent, but the investigation rate has also fallen at the same time. It is only more than 40.8 percent – another indication that we will have to gather all the forces in the future to counter this development. Ladies and gentlemen! It means that the mass crimes have risen. - Yeah, I'm sure it will be. Actions in public transport by 142 percent. – I mention this because I also make a comparison. A comparison with other countries is made in the issue of the Ministry of the Interior: on the basis of the offences per 100 000 inhabitants: We in Austria have 6 800, Germany 7 900 and France 7 000. However, I should like to give you another example, because one should also use models for comparison, i.e. not only countries which are statistically worse than Austria, but also countries which are comparable with Austria and are much better. In my opinion, for example, such a comparison should be made with the Free State of Bavaria: There are declining crime figures in all areas. In Bavaria, there are only 5 600 crimes per 100,000 inhabitants – 6 800 in Austria – and in Bavaria the education rate has continued to rise and is now 63.8 percent – in Austria it has fallen to 40.8 percent. [[Abg. May. Worm: You should send Straster there, maybe it's useful!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If I mentioned earlier that acts in public transport in Austria had increased by 142 percent, I must also say that they even fell by 1.4 percent in Bavaria. These are numbers you should think about. Much more should be considered by the Bavarian Minister for the Interior Beckstein, who, in his press conference on the current development of crime in Bavaria – to this end, one must know that the German asylum seekers have remained the same between 2000 and 2002 – says towards Austria – I quote literally –: “In Austria, the number of asylum seekers has doubled from 2000 to 2002. However, more than 80 percent of these applicants are no longer tangible to the authorities within a few days.” – Quotes. Beckstein thus indirectly says that these people without a Schengen border are of course going to Germany as an illegal, and he makes Austria indirectly responsible for it. This comparison alone proves, ladies and gentlemen, that the novelle to the asylum law is more than overdue. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Back to Austria. In my opinion, our executives will have to focus on their core tasks in view of the level of staffing. One of the key tasks is the fight against crime. The monitoring of maintenance and parking bans, radar surveillance, alerts and similar things can no longer be expected to be the core competence of executives in the future, but this will have to be the fight against crime in the face of these yet threatening figures. An important topic that I never share with the Greens: video surveillance. However, it is urgently necessary that video surveillance is regulated by law in areas of public health risk. This is preventively important, and it is also important for the detection of perpetrators. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Coming to the end: An extended telephone surveillance – and of course we also need to create the legal basis for this – would be an important basis for the efficient fight against crime. The case of Mr Michel Friedmann in Germany, his alleged cocaine consumption and the appointment of illegal prostitutes, is of course only a by-product of the whole thing. In fact, one has been very successful, one has smashed a drug ring and has caused a human trafficking ring to fly. Our executive – and I really say that from the bottom of my heart – works excellent! It should, however, be limited to the core tasks and take the violence monopoly seriously and seriously against crime. And the legal basis for effective crime control, which we must create here in the house. And again and again we need to remember the figures that the year 2002 has brought. Ladies and gentlemen! Internal security must be given the importance of a fundamental social right in Austria. Only when internal security in Austria has the importance of a fundamental social right will Austria be really sure.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18217	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. The desired speaking time of 4 minutes is set. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18235	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! Security is a basic need for people, and it is therefore the task of the state to provide the citizens with maximum security. We've heard it today: According to a statistics, the subjective sense of security of the Austrians has increased to 91 percent according to your statements. But this figure cannot be deceiving the dramatic rise in criminal acts, Mr Minister, for 591 584 crimes are after all by 13.2 percent more crimes than in 2001. At the same time, there is an alarmingly low awareness rate of only 40.8 percent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Never since 1945 has the education rate been so low! I think these figures speak a clear language. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I cannot therefore fully understand what you said earlier in your statements about the great figures of education. I can't follow you completely. I think that you must also be asked whether these figures are perhaps due to the postal closures and the reduction of the planning posts over the past few years. I am convinced, Minister of State! There were 1,700 planning posts that have been deleted since you took office. In the area of overtime and multi-services, it was also deleted. Many strips in the country – I come from a rural region – have enormously large areas to go. You often need 40 minutes to get to another site. I therefore think that all the restructuring measures you are planning should not be completely disregarded by local circumstances. I also believe that there are fewer police officers and gendarmen on the street and that this means less security. However, despite the poor intelligence rate in the area of executive guards, they want to reduce even further, while on the other hand, taxpayers are heavily burdened by arbitrary restructuring and conversion measures. I wonder if this is the right policy for the terrible criminal statistics of the year 2002, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also find it very surprising not to use an unsightly word here in the budgets of 2003, 2004 that there are no budget posts for Gendarmerie and police. The only approach is to find the safety executive. I have to ask: Has the merger already taken place, Mr. Minister? The gendarmen, the police, and we as opposition know nothing about this. Finally, I should like to make a few points on a subject that is very important to me personally, namely asylum policy and especially the handling of young asylum seekers. Again and again, the media can read about drug racism involving asylum seekers. I, too, condemn drug dealers, not a question like all of us! I would just like to raise one point of view, and I do not want to make this populist, Mr Federal Minister. I would really like to ask you quite honestly if you do not also believe that your restrictive asylum policy is driving young people, in part it is children, into crime. How do you feel about the young people who are often not older than 14 or 15 years old who come to Austria to a foreign country? You may not even have known Austria or heard nothing from Austria before they came to us. They usually have many torturing behind them, because the tow bands certainly don't deal with the young people, and then they finally come to us, and then these kids, these young people, land on the road. Federal Minister! I would like to ask you quite honestly: How can you reconcile this with your Christian outlook? – I think it would be time to really act sensitively in this sensitive area!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18308	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Kapeller. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18342	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is an increase in criminal offences in Austria, but this increase is very low in international and, above all, in European comparison and is already the result of a changing crime. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But that's brave what you say!]] Under the current conditions of a ever-growing world where borders are reduced as natural barriers to criminals, this is not the only parameter in whether a country is safe or insecure. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a fact!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: How do you measure it?]] Syndicates, mafia-like structures and the so-called organized crime that operates across borders mark the crime of the year 2002 and this beginning millennium. [[Abg. May. Worm: A robbery is not bad either!]] – Mrs Colleague! This development is met by the Minister with very good reforms. [[Abg. May. Worm: Where?]] There are also good figures to be reported, because my colleagues – I come from this department! – are not inactive or unmotivated with God, nor are they overwhelmed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They explained more than 23 000 crimes throughout Austria, bringing to light 1 300 perpetrators: These figures can be seen, and we should like to thank these Members. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We still live in the safest country in the world. – The studies prove it. For example, if there has been an increase of about 36 percent in the crime groups of robbery and fraud, more crimes of this kind have also been resolved by 36 percent. Of course, the increase in the offences falling within the scope of the Drugs Act is also frightening. I refer to numbers from my home country: Crimes and crimes against the Drug Law increased by 20 percent in Upper Austria. This is the same year after year, and the perpetrators are especially young people and students. Despite these dramatic figures, opposition parties, especially SPÖs, demand the release of so-called soft drugs. – Yes, you can fight crime as well: Legalize, because then there are no more crimes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder: This is a new specialist!]] But it's also bad that SPÖ politicians are constantly talking about a country. [[Abg. Eder: Did that write down the big truck?]] I again take the example of my home country: Despite an increase of 2 percent in the education rate in Upper Austria, SP-chef Haider speaks of alert signs and calls for the convocation of the National Security Council. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Insanity!]] That's a scandal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Obviously, only the exchange rate applies to you: There must be nothing good in Austria's respectable Upper Austria, because we do not rule! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Eder: We do not rule!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where's the applause, colleague Scheuch?]] However, the following must finally be clarified: Security must not constantly hold for cheap political rhetoric and polemics. As with the pension debate, you are not sure about the Austrians. [[Abg. Krainer: You don't believe that yourself!]] Now our ministry needs to be adapted quickly and permanently to the circumstances of this millennium: It is now said to break down double tracks, put together what belongs together, and away with traditional thoughts and troublesome body thinking, to an efficient and even better working executive for the benefit of the safest country in the world! [[Abg. Parnigoni: If a minister is replaced, then this is the best adaptation!]] The path is the right one and after years...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18550	Mr. Col., the lamp is not working. The 3 minutes are over – you can talk as long as you want.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18571	Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18598	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for Weinzinger for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18659	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen in the ranks of Members! Mr. Minister! My colleague, Mr Terezija Stoisits, said earlier that she trusts you, Mr Minister, in ensuring adequate parliamentary treatment of the asylum law. – It may be that I am in principle less confident than my colleague, or that I know you for a few years more and much better than my colleague, that I am not quite convinced of it. [[Oh, call the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: This is a home advantage!]] You, Mr Minister, now have the rare opportunity to transfer me very concretely and very quickly to the fact that I am wrong. I'll invite you to: Take this opportunity! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On one point, however, I would like to introduce you – at least at the same time – to the fact that you were wrong or to ask you to prove to me the following: You have previously claimed that there are complaints from the judiciary that too many robbers, thieves, murderers and whatever you have listed are being presented by your executive. – I would have liked to prove this and submit the complaints that should have come from the judicial system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kößl: The Jarolim has made the accusation! Ask Mr Jarolim!]] I would now like to refer to some details of the asylum law, which is in consultation. I do not mention the many criticisms that are now being put forward by human rights organisations, refugee aid organisations, international institutions and so on, but only a few details. One would be the acceleration of asylum procedures. I think that is one of the points where, in principle, we have a similar interest. Minister! But I'm asking you: Who is responsible for the fact that asylum procedures are currently taking so long? – This is probably not the opposition, but your place and your officials. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: The law!]] – The law does not require that procedures at first instance be carried out so faultily that there is so much reason for dispute and appeal that almost everything ends up in the second instance or even higher and therefore proceeds over years! - No! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kößl: This is a massive injunction to the officials!]] To clarify: This is quite specific not to the officials, but it is a criticism that Strasser has not yet managed to provide sufficient staff with sufficient resources in order to be able to carry out these procedures properly in the first instance with appropriate treatment and consideration. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Minister, I therefore urge you not to do anything about the law in order to make it as restrictive as possible. To choose a formulation from you: It should get the asylum that it needs – yes! – but you should not define who needs asylum – hand-reading according to the figures that appear politically opportunistic. A fair and rapid procedure with legal certainty should be made possible. A measure – especially for women – is a thorn in my mind: the so-called ban on innovation. I am not aware of the fact that the word “renewal ban” in itself says something about a government that claims to be innovative in itself. Minister! Faith You actually do, for example, that a woman who has become victims of sexual violence, who may flee from mass rapes in war zones, at the border at the time of the first acquisition – probably by loud male officials – immediately tells what happened? This woman forbids you from stating later on her actual reasons for fleeing and asylum. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: Wrong!]] [[Abg. Miedl: Mrs Collaborative! We have expressly excluded torture!]] The same applies to other traumatic experiences. We can talk about victims of torture, we can speak of various persecutions: They assume that someone at the border immediately knows our bureaucratic horrors and procedures and is able to put all the reasons for escape on the table. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: Wrong!]] Let me address another issue that you should not really have the great concern that now millions of people are pushing and asking for Austrian borders, a measure that would cost no money and which would bring you the greatest recognition in human rights circles and feminist circles: Although female genital mutilation is prohibited under the criminal code in Austria, it is not explicitly a reason for asylum; it can be taken into account in individual cases. I urge you to finally lay down this as an official asylum ground by law and not only to be indignant about the fact that there is still this use and that there are hundreds of thousands of people – especially women – in Africa. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, I should also like to invite you to pay special attention to the situation of young people in the asylum process and refugee status. They will all have read the “profile” this week – I appeal to a recognised medium – in which the accusation is made very clearly and clearly that Austria is systematically producing street children. I think this is a shame for a rich country like Austria, and urge you to stop it! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One last comment I can't quite get: If you were the mayor of Traiskirchen, who has so far been responsible for some of the miserable conditions in the refugee camp of Traiskirchen, and who – on the basis of what I have met in Lower Austria in the Landtag – is in the tradition of the Löschnaks and Schlöglsch foreign policy, I would call as unbiased witnesses for your policy, then that already says a lot about these your policies!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18850	Mr Ing. Reported chapel to word. Speech time: 2 minutes. You know the Rules of Procedure, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18871	Mrs. Weinzinger, it is not on the Cabinet of Strasser that asylum proceedings are conducted for so long or so long that they are conducted in the first...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18904	Please continue, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18919	I am now leading the case to be corrected by Mrs Weinzinger, who said that it was at the Strasse cabinet that asylum proceedings would take so long or land at UBAS or even higher. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Yes!]] I'm correcting: That's wrong! I myself spent a year at the Bundesasylamt Linz decision-makers. It is not on the Cabinet of Strasser and not on the decisive officials, but on the current asylum law.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18976	Mrs Rossmann has now come to speak. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, walk your way to the speaker's desk. It's successful! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e18995	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As my colleague Uwe Scheuch, I too would like to thank the executive, who travels day and night in Austria in the service of our safety and provides our safety, for the security of our people, but ultimately also for the security of our politicians. [[Abg. Eder: Thank you, thank you!]] It's not always easy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Are you sure the sheep has spoken?]] My colleague Uwe Scheuch did this on the subject of agriculture this morning. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Oh, that's it!]] A warm thank you, but also the officials in the department that does great things, often also against resistance. I would now like to focus on a few points of view. As a member of a large constituency, I am of course also on the road in many waiting rooms and have much contact with the executive and the population. [[Abg. Eder: How big is your constituency?]] It reflects the latest crime statistics, which I always experience in many discussions, namely that there is a great increase in mass crimes of well-organised perpetrator groups. Especially the increase in pocket and shop thefts – the sum of 6 billion schilling alone in shop thefts – speaks for itself. [[Abg. Gaál: Styria and Lower Austria!]] Recently – I think it was after the football match against Moldova – a whole bus drove with Romanians to Parndorf. In a very short time, the inmates plundered the Outlet Center, took off the old shoes, put on new shoes and got together what was going on. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Was that the Bartenstein?]] Of course, the desperate entrepreneurs immediately agreed with the executive. You were just able to make sure of some pieces of booty, but the perpetrators have gone away. I also hear about such scenarios – even in smaller dimensions – from Styria again and again: from house plunders, but also from thefts on order. Of course, there is the organized crime behind it, organized gangs looking for certain things they prefer. A wormhead drop is – I say a little critically – the elimination of the EU visa requirement for Romanians. The regulation has been waived in so far as up to three months of residence are now visa-free. I know that Austria is – and that makes sense – dependent on the Federal Republic of Germany in many respects, also on security issues. At the end of the day, however, I did not think it was the right decision that Austria also agreed to this relief of the visa requirement for Romanians. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Did you agree to the government?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That was no vote!]] In some cases a mechanism has been set in motion, perhaps underestimated at first. – Dear Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany! Perhaps there is a way to talk yet and to take it back in some form due to experience. [[Assured by Dr. Partik-Pablé and Scheibner.]] In this context, I would also like to address the visa requirement for Russia, which in Poland with 1. It is expected to be introduced in July. Federal Minister! I would ask you to use all your power to ensure that Poland introduces this visa requirement. I mean – and this has also been addressed by the colleague Stoisits today – that it is not only about the factual problem, but also much more about the subjective sense of security of the Austrian population. There are still major problems with the enlargement of the East. It is about the subjective sense of security – especially in the border regions, but also in the rest of Austria – and the question of how to deal with the fact that there are more and more organized bands in our country. [[Abg. Parnigoni: We already have Schengen!]] A few words on the problem of drugs in Austria: The drug problem is now becoming really visible for the first time through various razzies and also through increased police use, and it is recognized how underestimated it has been in recent years. The problem of drugs is, of course, closely linked to procurement crime. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Is that alcohol now?]] Federal Minister! I would ask you not only to carry out once a month drug racism, which thank God is successful, but – not hourly, but permanent, at least daily. [[Abg. Heinzl: Hourly!]] [[Abg. Heinzl: I say yes: always!]] This is again about subjective security, because the people feel that they are constantly on the ball, and that the criminals are constantly dealing with razzia. The problem of drugs is, I believe, also important to involve the population. Here I am entirely of the opinion of Mr Parnigoni... [[Abg. Parnigoni: That was a promise! Mainoni!]] Excuse me: Mr Mainoni! The video surveillance of various dealer meetings could be useful, but above all a close cooperation with schools, parents' associations, but also with the local youth scene, to discotheque operators, knowing that there are all drugs such as Ecstasy tablets and so on. So I think this is a problem that is difficult to deal with, but with increased police presence and more frequent deployments, at least in such a way that arrests can be expected. A few words still to be found: The executive tells me again and again, especially with drug dealers, this is very difficult. They are often without legal identity in Austria, then they are arrested, but you can take them into custody for a maximum of half a year and then have to release them again because they have no identity. – This is actually the core problem. The executive has to do with the same people over and over again. I would ask you to take over the fingerprint system very quickly. I believe that this is the only way to identify at least in the EU area. At least you know: This is the same thing that was actually arrested a year ago. To the fingerprint system I only say: I'm sure that's nothing objectionable. My daughter completes an internship semester abroad in Mexico. Before she was given the visa, she had to print a fingerprint here in Austria at the Mexican Embassy. – That was the condition for her having a visa at all. [[Abg. May. Worm: For fun becomes serious!]] I'd say it's really high time to introduce the fingerprint system for identification. Finally, I would like to say that our security spokesman Helene Partik-Pablé has done excellent work in the cooperation for the Asylum Act. [[Abg. Eder: Where?]] Essential demands for freedom can be found in the Asylum Act. [[Abg. Eder: More precisely! Please explain!]] . I can calm you and I am also pleased that the Federal Minister is now implementing a long-term freedom call, namely the merger of the two executive bodies Gendarmerie and police. I know that all this was not quite easy and that it needed a lot of discussions. Therefore: We're glad that's on track now! [[Abg. Parnigoni: You forgot the customs guard!]] And, of course, the customs guard! [[Abg. Parnigoni: And the fireguard from Parliament!]] In this sense, I wish to continue to wish for good cooperation and I am already looking forward to the debate on the asylum law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e19274	Mr Pendl is now speaking. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e19294	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have the impression that we are dealing with selective perception here, because if we look at today's or yesterday's newspapers and get our reports to mind, I can only say: No one will believe that it is only social democrats who say that security policy in our Republic is in annoyance. For example, the Deputy Vienna FPÖ Chief said – I quote – that there is a “challenge” at the police in Vienna. – I can only say: What's the matter, please, with us Social Democrats? We are not in any doubt, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Otto, this has been disproved!]] We have also listened closely, as Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé here demanded a subway police. – To do this only: Please contact your coalition partner ÖVP immediately to request the necessary planning posts. I do not want to forget now – this is really a personal need – to express great thanks to the executive officials of Austria on their own behalf as well as on behalf of all social democrats. These are excellent for the security of people and for the security of our Republic – despite this policy, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To this end, in the last three years, we have heard the word “reforms” without interruption: No reform is actually done – and it is starting with the next! I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but also all the colleagues who are dealing with this policy – I did this a few days ago, in the budget chapter of the Supreme Institutions: We also have the obligation to ensure that the necessary framework conditions are in place for this heavy service, and that these colleagues, please, are not unhindered! In addition to the so-called staff posts in our Republic, there is no one – every gene arm, every criminal officer, every SW employee complains today – who knows where it will really go. [[Abg. Otto!]] – I mean, that can't be the meaning of a policy, a policy that should, in general, be in the interests of people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I can't do anything for it – and probably, Minister, we can't do anything for it – at least I've taken good care of it and therefore I would like to say: It is very good and wonderful when there are excellent successes in the executive. But you, Mr Minister, told us here about an hour ago that justice could not take up all, and therefore, Minister Strasser, I invite you to deal with this issue once in the Council of Ministers, because this is something the executive really cannot do. I therefore call on you to solve these key issues together for our home country and for the Austrians as a whole. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Socialists and Socialists would be very happy to help you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, if you would only listen to us, because: We're making a policy for people!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e19410	Mr Schöls is now speaking for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e19428	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Like Mrs. Weinzinger: I have known Mr Strasser for a very long time. However, unlike Mr Weinzinger, I have a lot of confidence in the competence of Mr Strasser. [[Abg. Pendl: Despite this policy!]] Since Otto Pendlgeschagen, “despite” this minister, the executive works well: Not despite this minister, despite this policy, but because of this minister and because of this policy, ladies and gentlemen, we can also achieve success in the executive field. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From this point of view, I would like to thank all my colleagues in all the guards for their work. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for this! In 1994, when the executive service law was passed, trade unionists from the field of executives began to discuss the issue of executive difficulty law – up to the life-time model. There is still one of the former socialist ministers of the interior, where this discussion has clearly passed away – like so many other things too! Socialist Interior Ministers have been content to go to the Spatenstifting parties in Traiskirchen, of course, before elections, and they have been there with the construction of security academies – but nothing else has been done! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Socialist Ministers of the Interior have been content to discuss issues of social policy, but have not taken any solutions. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Socialist Interior Ministers were satisfied that school planning posts were saved and thus the personnel situation in the area of the Gendarmerie increased. From “L” to “S”, from Löschnak to Schlögl, there has been deterioration. Only in the last three years have structural measures been gratefully taken, for example through the integration of customs guard into the field of the Ministry of the Interior. Mr. Bundesminister Strasser, I am grateful to you for now being very good at the chances that the life-time model for executives will come. However, I do not understand colleagues from Nuremberg who have complained about the fact that the Public Service Trade Union would like to know how to deal with this particular job. – We – to this end, as a trade unionist – want those executive officials who work under difficult conditions and in the field of foreign service to be able to use the possibility of a meaningful life-time model or that those who work in an office have different conditions. – And this distinguishes us from the railways who have the same conditions from the “scribing table” to the driver. Again: Those to whom it is due shall have it, and the others shall not. In this sense, I am glad that the life-time model will now come into a meaningful form.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e19503	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e19521	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has obviously confused a lot: for example, who has made important floorings. For example, Interior Minister Löschnak; Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Caspar One was responsible for the concept of content. This Academy was then built under Minister of the Interior Schlögl, and the disaster in this context has Mr. Bundesminister Strasser to answer! – So much for the Traiskirchen Security Academy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, Federal Minister Strasser, an almost personal question to you: Listen You like radio? Do you like to listen to “Ö 1”, perhaps also on Sundays at 9.30 a.m.? There was always the show “Guglhupf. ” This ORF broadcast has now entered an early summer break. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Maybe on Saturday evenings, and at home once on Sunday, could be! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this satiric “Guglhupf ” mission, one has always spoken, namely, the “Lord of Fine Colors. ” – Now “Mr Schönfarber” has gone into the summer break, and this role, it seems to me, Minister of State, to fill out now! And that you do indeed good! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Distinguish clear facts and color them on the other hand: Minister Strasser! In this discipline you are almost world champions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They find beautiful, anointing words for a truly disastrous security balance sheet. Never before has so much been stolen, broken in and robbed in Austria, this is what these statistics say: plus 21.8 percent for the thefts, plus 16.6 percent for the breakdowns, plus 35.7% for normal predators, for the qualified, i.e. the heavy predators plus 29 percent. [[Abg. Kößl: And never explained so much! 23 000 Enlightenments More!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Robbery is a crime that really interferes with the integrity of the people who intervene in privacy. Often, a person who has become victims of a robbery is traumatized because of this crime. It's the same with burglaries. Someone in whose house, in whose apartment was broken into, no longer goes so quietly into his apartment, does not go so quietly into his house anymore, does not sleep so quietly, often has traumatic experiences. Everyone who deals with crime sociology knows this. That's exactly what's particularly painful about these statistics, that exactly these types of offences have increased: plus 35.7 percent in robbery, I've already said it. The education rate you came to speak to is 27.3 percent, 2000 44.6%. [[Abg. Kößl: 23 000 more!]] I don't know what you're comparing with. In 2000, the education rate was 44.6% for robbery, while now it is only 27.3 percent. [[Abg. Kößl: Plus 23,000 cases have been clarified!]] That's almost minus 20 percent, and that's alarming, you don't need anything to talk about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Heavy robbery: plus 29 percent, education rate dropped to 37.1 percent, and in 2000 it was still 50.6 percent. If a newspaper writes the chance to be transferred to Austria as a robber, then I have to say: That's a big problem. [[Abg. Kößl: Is it in the paper, or is it true?]] In the “profile” it is said whether this catastrophic balance sheet: No matter how the numbering is turned and turned, the message is and remains unsatisfyable. Crime is increasing, the education rate is falling. This is your security policy, Federal Minister for Internal Insecurity!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e19637	The next speaker is Mr Wattaul. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e19656	Mr President. Federal Minister! I have to say honestly, in the district I live in, I'm sure. I really have respect, we have a bourgeois army. I have many foreign business partners who confirm to me that Austria is a safe country where you can walk at 23 o'clock at night. And tell me, In which country can you still do that? From my point of view, the police in Vienna also deserve the highest respect, I have to say that honestly. [[Abg. May. Worm: The police already!]] Police officers have to beat around with criminal elements day after day. I do not believe that any statistics are now available to them. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But I want to talk to a gentleman from the Ministry of the Interior. That's a long story, and it's about the dangerous thing. For persons active in the dangerous goods sector, the hazardous goods matter is extremely complicated and inconspicuous, because of the branchiness of the provisions in Austria: GGST for national and ADR for international freight transport of dangerous goods. – This was said by an official of the Federal Ministry, the Council of Ministers Herbert Grundner, in 1993, ten years ago. [[Abg. Wittauer: Insanity! Ten years ago!]] Changes took place in 1995: Danger tables, equipment. In 1997, changes were made again. And the most beautiful piece happened in 1998, where the GGSt was converted into the GGGG. Ladies and gentlemen! This Lord is thank God, thanks to the Minister of the Interior, Strasser, who has noticed this. We don't need a law of our own in Austria. I said yes, ADR applies to international transport. Why can't this also apply to Austria? So thank you, Minister, for doing this. We still have a wormhead drop. We still have the same department in the Department of Transport. You have to imagine this: Officials at the expense of the economy! Now these rulers know that this is extremely complicated. The drivers are to finish with this, and consider the cost of the economy. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Talk to Hubert, let him turn it off!]] And what's the worst thing: You have to know the punishments. The minimum penalty is 1 000 s for the driver and 10 000 s for the entrepreneur. Now we know that's so complicated. For example, if a driver has not filled the eyewashing bottle with water, the driver pays 1 000 S penalty, the entrepreneur 10 000 S. Now you need to know that this eyewater freezes in winter, that is, we put this bottle in a dangerous bag, this is isolated and then comes into the cab. If an acid accident actually happens, then I have to say, until the driver comes to the bottle, everything is over. If the legislator would just write in, there should be a bulge of water on the loading surface, then we would probably have more of it. What I want to say is: This Mr Grundner has really tyrannized the economy for ten years, wrote books and gave lectures at the expense of the economy. Thank you once again, Minister, for putting this off.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e19738	Mr Jarolim is now speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, the clock is set at 4 minutes. - You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e19757	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is unnecessary to mention and discuss the figures again. Unfortunately, we are surely in the most disastrous security situation of the Second Republic. Mr Federal Minister, I must say quite honestly: What I've admired about you today was actually the coldness with which you have tried to present numbers that are actually to be beautified by nothing more than success. [[Abg. That's an order call! “Kaltschnutheit” – an insanity!]] I would ask here for a little more honesty, even for the Austrians, to whom you so appeal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kößl: You are a changing example of honesty!]] If Mr Pendl has today expressed his thanks to the executive, to which we are sure to be seamlessly attached, I must regret the fact that he has actually become one of the central burdens for this executive, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to say this on behalf of Mr Gaál. [[Complaints with the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Free Trade Unions]] I think that the result is clear. [[Abg. Chastity: He has an unfrozenness, that is great!]] Federal Minister! I would ask you to disclose to me the quality of the following decisions and to tell me what you think is useful. I come from Leopold City, from the second district, which is one of the most populous districts of Vienna. We have an area with the stadium, with the Prater, with the entire leisure facilities, in which there are also events that are less desirable. If you are exactly from this district – I, Federal Minister, and also all other Leopold cities and Leopold cities – you have been indignantly asked to leave it – the Commissioner is removed and it is with that of the 20th century. I suspect that this is more than just inaccurateness, but, in the knowledge of the circumstances, it really goes to the limit of what one would call malicious, Mr. Federal Minister, when it comes to a benevolent interpretation. I would ask you to consider this decision again, because this is one of the reasons why there is this kind of criminal statistics. If you have on your "discharge list" – under quotation marks – capacities that are recognised all over the world, such as a Max Edelbacher, who is holding talks in America about how an efficient criminal policy you, Mr. Federal Minister, are looking for, for reasons that I cannot understand, which are at least not factual, to be sent out if you have left a Mr. Strohmeyer more or less and a General Schnabl, who has received the best descriptions within the framework of an objective committee, and instead not the second or third, but the one which the Commission clearly calls incompetent, Mr. Federal Minister, then tell me – you can even find out the "NÖN" in the meantime – what should be wrong on the subject. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Kapeller and Kößl]] Security or Strasser? – Ladies and gentlemen! That's the question.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e19854	I now come to the floor, Mr Deputies' friend. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e19888	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This government has begun to create a secure Austria and to raise the security of our citizens, and this has been successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There has been a steady increase in crime across Europe and Austria in recent years. [[Abg. Parnigoni: 10 percent less education in three years!]] In the Federal average, the number of crimes increased by 13.2 percent compared to the previous year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] In Vienna, crime increased more than in Upper Austria – there is a rate of 9 percent – and I can also tell you that in Upper Austria the rate of Enlightenment is twice as high as in Vienna. [[Abg. Parnigoni: 100,000 more offences in three years!]] If the Upper Austrian head of state, Haider Oberösterreich, marks as an unsafe country and thus makes the executive bad, I have to reject it harshly, because it is simply not true. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: A disastrous balance sheet of the Federal Minister!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the rise in crime does not make us all happy. But if we still have around 1 000 crimes per 100 000 people less than Germany or France for example, I would like to highlight this positively. [[Abg. May. Worm: Switzerland has not mentioned you now!]] After all, Austria was found to be the safest country in the world among 49 industrial nations. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Liechtenstein!]] And we can be proud of that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This trend is also continued under Minister of the Interior Ernst Strasser, and with this double budget 2003 and 2004 this is certainly also reflected. [[Abg. Krainer: Reverse trend!]] [[Abg. Krainer: How about the unemployed!]] We owe this to the excellent work of our executive. It provides daily road safety for the population. Transport statistics show that, despite increasing traffic, the number of fatal traffic accidents is falling. Since the 1970s, the number of fatalities has fallen steadily, ranging from 2 948 to 956 in 2002. But the number of road traffic victims is still far too high. Most accidents occur due to inappropriate driving speed, priority injuries, carelessness, overcrowding, alcohol and fatigue. A major problem is also the speed crossings on the numerous construction site sections on Austria's motorways. That's where the executive is in demand. This government has set itself the goal of taking even more measures to reduce the frequency of accidents. This also includes the increased fight against drugs, particularly in the transport sector. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Upper Austria!]] Our executive officials deserve a warm thank you. This double budget for interiors goes in the right direction. The successes achieved prove this, even though the ladies and gentlemen are of different opinion from the opposition. The budget presented can certainly guarantee the security of our people, and that is why we will be happy to vote in favour of this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20041	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. He wants to talk for 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20070	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mainoni cannot leave it to refer to the future core tasks of the internal security policy over and over again. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We asked ourselves what he wanted to express. He wants to tell us: Mr. Bundesminister Strasser, it is time for more privatization!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Minister of State! We believe – and I have also made a corresponding budget request – that if you intend to privatize other areas of security administration, this is only possible with a federal law. They all know that there are already major problems with professional detectives, in the security sector. Data protection provisions are not complied with, but neither are provisions governing personal rights. That's why we believe we need our own federal law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Strasser, I agree with you in one sentence: I won't let anything come over the executive either, because she didn't deserve it. It also did not deserve it, Mr Federal Minister, that the so-called Office for Internal Affairs, without appropriate legal controls, should raise and determine, without prejudice to the presumption of innocence against officials. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to tell you the following story: Mr Maier, i.e. I telephoned a staff representative in Salzburg. We wanted to talk about the office for internal affairs. An appointment, a local and the time was agreed. At this meeting, Minister of State, officials from the Office of Internal Affairs were sitting at once. I now ask you, as a freely elected Member: Mr. Federal Minister, will you have Members observe? Have I been heard? – You don't need to laugh, Minister of State! [[Abg. Ing. That's all kinds of accusations, that's crazy!]] At this meeting, where I was not present, but only the staff representative, the officials of the Office for Internal Affairs sat! Mr President, I ask you: Are we being heard from the Office for Internal Affairs? [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: I'm not responsible for you!]] Will staff representatives be consulted? How could it happen that at this meeting, in which I myself did not participate, but which was agreed by me, officials of the Office for Internal Affairs were present? [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: Is only responsible for “Kieberer”!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Office for Internal Affairs is our opinion, as Mr Strasser's private secret service. We don't know how to work there. [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: This is a sourry!]] We do not know what budget resources are available there. [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: You are monitoring the rule of law!]] You have not even been able to tell me, Mr Federal Minister, when asked for a budget, which organizational units can be used by this office and which budget resources are available there. [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: On your know-how in the future!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think you have to look at this office for internal affairs even more closely. It is not reasonable for officials to be accused of the suspicion of innocence, and I insist on one thing: I believe that such an organization is essential in principle, but it must be rejected from us in the current construction, Mr Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Chapel: Wonderful!]] As Members of Parliament who have the task of controlling execution and thus also you, Mr Federal Minister, we must also control the Office for Internal Affairs. As long as You cannot present concrete budget figures as long as there is no information on what legal basis, with what methods and with what technical possibilities the Office is working with internal affairs, you have to be accused that the Office for Internal Affairs acts as a personal intelligence service of your place of business.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20214	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Straster. Time left: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20233	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a few points of debate here. To Mrs Haidlmayr: Yes, the reorganisation of civil service has resulted in a win-win situation for all parties involved. Now the civil servants can choose where they are going. There are more civil service facilities in Austria, which also make use of them. We can fill out the quota for the first time to almost 100 percent, and we are decomposing the survival that has been built up by the predecessors. So this is a win-win situation for Austria and civil service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] To Mr Mainoni, which I do not see at the moment: I thought that he was an expert and a specialist in the field, but with the criminal statistics in Bavaria, he did not know what to do, because – perhaps the colleagues could do this to him – the calculation in Austria would be like in Bavaria, then Minister One, Minister Schlögl and Minister Strasser would be much more successful in the education rate than Minister Beckstein. There, too, all persistent repetitions of gross administrative violations are included, in particular road accidents and similar cases, in which there is, of course, a virtually 100 percent reconnaissance rate. If you want that to be counted like that, maybe we'll do it that way. I don't want to promise it fixed, and I'm saying I don't think it makes sense. Mrs Königsberger. – I would also like to make a clear statement on asylum, and I am telling you that quite openly and directly: I think it is unchristian that most young people have the hope of being able to live in Austria when the asylum application is rejected after years. That is, they usually spend the best years of their lives in emergency quarters, so that they have to go back. As a result, I think it is more honest, more open and more direct to clarify the situation quickly and to help those affected – nine out of ten – to get back. I think that is Christian, and that is my personal opinion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs Weinzinger! The history of asylum is as said by the former official in the field of asylum, the honourable Member: The law is a major concern and trouble in execution. [[Abg. Krainer: The name of the colleague is Kapeller!]] There are two to three asylum procedures in Austria at the same time, which is the current legal situation, and no one is allowed to stop them. If, if the asylum procedure is negative to the person concerned, one can start with a new procedure and the authority has to re-examine it, then it is a difficulty that extends, withdraws and favours those, ladies and gentlemen who benefit from this very situation of the law, and those who need it refuse it longer because our authorities are bound by these cases. That is why we need a new, fast-acting asylum law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I would also like to keep in mind, on behalf of my staff in the department, the accusation that anyone in Austria is producing street children. The opposite is the case! We have created a requirement for people who are on the streets to be cared for and to be able to go back. So these people are being cared for, and this is done by my officials – thank you for the suggestion, honourable Member, I will be happy to stick to this language system. That's the change we've made.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20291	Minister! From now on, your speaking time will be deducted from the speaking time of the ÖVP club. You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20307	I am opposed to Mr Maier's comments. It is an immeasurable thing to say that I am letting Members go! I call on the honourable Member to: Either you prove this immenseness – or you withdraw it from the High House!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20344	Mr Hornek is now speaking. The voluntary time limit is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20363	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High officials! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As residents of the border region, I have the irons for three decades The curtain is seen as an insurmountable, twelve kilometers long northern boundary. Many of the inhabitants of my home community are former refugees or their descendants – like me. In recent decades, we have also had to experience that some Czech citizens have left the then communist homeland by fleeing. Some of them have not survived this flight. Over generations, Austria has included many people in the most difficult situations of life and has stood by them, namely people from all over the world. Austria is an asylum country for anyone who needs asylum. And I think that when it comes to asylum, it can't be fast enough. But when it comes to immigration, we must be honest and say: There can be no Austrian single channels for European challenges and global migration flows. We are increasingly dealing with trafficking in human beings and towing. Poor people will lose their last money for promises that will never be fulfilled. Trafficking in human beings and towing are brutal and staunch crimes that must be fought with all consequence – nationally, at European level and internationally. The efforts of Austria in the security partnership with neighbouring countries have already led to success. For example, Slovenia has built up a well-equipped and motivated police force. As a result, safety has been significantly increased. The EU accession of our neighbouring countries is most beneficial for Austria from a security perspective. The safer the neighbouring countries are, the safer Austria is. The border service of the Gendarmerie is built up professionally and together with the German army and with the customs it is doing excellent work. Overall, some 3,000 men and women are in the border service of the Gendarmerie to secure the 1 460-kilometre-long, currently EU external border with the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, for which I would like to thank them very much from this point of view on behalf of the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The smartest solution for economic refugees is undoubtedly support on the ground to ensure stability – in the problem region on the one hand, but also as a contribution to Austrian security. Austria is a safe country and it will remain under Federal Minister Dr. Ernst Strassauch in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20417	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20435	High house! I noticed two newspaper notes today, to which I would like to say something. Last year, about this time, a Member of this House gave a speech and said the following: We have implemented a consistent immigration policy by reducing the immigration rate already for this year by for the first time adopting an integration law, which you have never achieved in the government, in which German courses are required, because we know that learning the language is the essential requirement for people to be able to integrate into a society at all, Mr. Gusenbauer! – That is what the former Member said. Now I take away from today's newspaper that a total of twelve people have completed the German course, that 200 were in training, and that in 2003 there was a need estimate of about 20,000 to 30,000. That is why I am in favour of giving this colleague an order, Mr President. Someone who has said this, decided and contributed to it is truly “orderly suspect ” in that Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Ellmauer's contribution to the UNHCR today is as follows: Criticism expressed by the ÖVP Human Rights Spokesman with regard to the party-political activities of UNHCR in the public. – You talked about the parties of the UNHCR again today. I believe that this accusation is quite appropriate because other organisations, such as amnesty international, asylum in need, asylum coordination, popular assistance, Caritas, have also made the same accusation. That is why, I believe, we should be very careful about representatives of international organisations. I am delighted to see the increase in the appropriations for the UBAS from 2003 to 2004 from 5.5 million to 7.2 million. I think that's positive. Budgetary appropriations for federal care have also been increased considerably. One point, however, was: For the support of asylum seekers, Mr. Minister, you will have 1 from 1st. The company was ordered by the European Homecare company on 1 July 2003. You have given me the answer in the committee that a savings of €0.821 per refugee will be achieved by the care of this company. If one still expects the premises to be made available free of charge, then the question arises whether the savings resulting from this is really so large. I think you should relevate that. Mr. Minister, what is going on under the Asylum Act is right that there has been a significant increase in applications from 1998 to 2002. The aim of the legislative initiative is to examine effectively and quickly, while respecting the rule of law. That's all right, but there are already some points that are worthy of discussion. Apart from the improvements there are for traumatized and for torture victims, there are also some improvements for family procedures. There are, however, some criticisms, such as safe third countries and so on, which must already be highlighted. If a recognised constitutional lawyer says that, first of all, he criticises the complete exclusion of the suspensive effect of an appeal and thus the immediate enforceability of the decision of the first instance, because here is an essential element of the rule of law, that on the second hand the principle of material truth applies in the administrative procedure, which should now be excluded in the asylum procedure, and that a person who receives asylum in Austria can first be stopped for 72 hours, then this provision violates the Constitutional Law on the Protection of Personal Freedom. And thirdly, it is true that certain countries are regarded as safe third countries; this is a system which the VfGH has criticised as unconstitutional. All this is a criticism you should take seriously. I believe that the objectively and legally well-argued criticism, even if it is not shared, is not obsolete by the political will which proclaims that he wants to do the opposite or not take this criticism seriously. I would like to address one of the points you have raised today, because I think that is a criticism that cannot be left to stand. They referred to the Israeli Cultural Community and said that 25 Jewish objects in Vienna are monitored by up to 100 security officials and that a large amount is available for the equipment of security facilities. I do not know if you are aware of the relevance of this statement, but I would like to draw attention to it: The protection of a population group that needs to be protected in that country is something other than the means available for the subsidy of infrastructure, communities and support from a group. This is a very questionable argument. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is a need to be very, very careful in the interests of security in the country, and I ask you to pay attention. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20514	The next speaker is Mr Pack. You can speak for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20532	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Strasser and my colleague Matthias Ellmauer have already referred to the field of civil service; I would like to comment on a number of additional points. At the last Civil Service Law Novelle I was not here yet in the house, but I remember very clearly the criticism of the opposition. Meanwhile, there is a very great acceptance and satisfaction not only of civil servants but also of the support organisations. There was an allocation record of civilian servants in 2002 and still an annual savings of €1.3 million. That's what I call a very successful novel! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It would also be worth mentioning that the budget accompanying law does not provide for the temporary period of validity of the services sectors of environmental protection and youth work. Minister! The idea of a daily questioning of the free places for civil servants on the Internet with an additional link to the legal entities or to the institutions to obtain further information can only be welcomed. Through a large offer in 2003, there has been a record of exactly 9467 demand surveys. Despite a large setback period before the Civil Service Novelle, there has not been a significant waiting time for allocations. That's very important. Even the 20 percent increase in civil service declarations we had in 2002 was effective. Ladies and gentlemen! Civil service is important for our country. Good work is being done there, and this work is for our citizens. of the greatest benefit. Although I myself did my own service with the army, I am convinced that both systems are absolutely necessary and important in order to ensure security, preserve the social system and cope with disasters. Personal experiences from my district Hartberg confirms that almost every civil servant develops a social consciousness during his service, which binds this civil servant to his former office very often with voluntary assistance in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20584	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20605	Mr President! Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Strasser said that it would never have been so many police and gendarmen on the street. – I think much more that never before have there been as many police and gendarmen members of the ÖAAB as they have been in the last three years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ: I think so too!]] [[Counter call at the ÖVP: But this is also very important!]] – That may be; you can say that at a meeting of the ÖAAB, but that certainly has not lost anything in the House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller:... distributed by the FSG!]] It's all quiet! There is still colleague Meidl, who can then throw a few smoke bombs and a few blend grenades again. [[Abg. He's called Mie dl! Legathenic failure!]] That's not a problem. Mr Strasser, you have harshly criticized the members of the UBAS in the Committee on Budgets, and you have rightly said that they would not terminate, decide and conclude asylum procedures, but they will collect files. This is, in itself, a behavior I do not know about you, because I normally know you in such a way that you defend your officials and not unjustly attack them. [[Abg. Wittauer: From the legal situation!]] You must pay particular attention to the following if you are a bit concerned with the UBAS: It has been set up for about 5,000 cases a year, but there are much more than 5,000 cases a year to be done there. [[Abg. Kößl: Let's make a new asylum law!]] The UBAS is not somewhere in the empty space, but it is embedded as a second instance in a three-position train. That is, he depends on the decision, on the quality of the decision, especially the first instance. The law does not require anything... [[Abg. Kößl: I'll give you the right! We need a new asylum law!]] Please stop with the law! The law does not require you as an asylum seekers to wait eight months until you come to an original request. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: There is no longer any more!]] You can also be consulted after three days of the current law! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kößl: But at 37 000 this is not possible, Mr Cot!]] The second is that in the third instance – and this also requires UBAS to comply – we usually have the Administrative Court, which lays very strict standards on the quality of the procedures the UBAS has to conduct. In reality, the UBAS does the work of the first instance in a number of procedures. That's why he also has a relatively large backlog, but the worst thing I've heard in the meantime is that the backlog in the UBAS is large, but that the backlog in the first instance, which is directly subordinated to you, is even bigger than that of the UBAS. Where is your criticism of the file collection in the first instance? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kößl: We need a new asylum law!]] The point of integration. [[Abg. Wittauer: The conscious delay in the asylum process is the problem!]] [[Call to the SPÖ: Who will delay it?]] I always have the impression that your symbol for integration policy is a fig leaf. You once again proved this yesterday when you opened an information center for integration. Dear colleagues! Do you already know the opening hours of this so-called information centre? – Monday and Thursday, not Monday to Thursday, but Monday and Thursday from 8 am to 11 pm. This integration office is a “tolles” service for immigrants. 8 to 11 o'clock, of course, in the morning, not until 23 o'clock! [[Abg. How many are there?]] If someone wants to go there, he'll have to take a day off! Why exactly the Monday and Thursday were selected, I don't know. Perhaps it has something to do with Monday and Thursday being those days of weeks, which are very often holidays. Perhaps this is the background, but perhaps you, Minister, can still explain it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gosh: Pure populism, dear friend!]] To the integration agreement. – In the first year, I thought 20 000 to 30 000 people would attend German courses. Now it's been half a year. How many are they so far? How many are they? 10,000? 5,000? 1 000? 500? 100? - No! 25 people! Please, this is a bankruptcy declaration for your law! That's a sign that it's absolutely next to it! I have to add: The city of Vienna has taught the German language through its language offensive 25,000 people. [[Abg. Wittauer: You can see this with the taxi drivers!]] You can see that the compulsion you're doing here doesn't do anything. Essentially in integration policy is the trust, trust of the people who migrate, as well as mutual congregation – and not the raised index finger. These are two very different things! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm surprised that the red lamb doesn't blink. Did I talk so briefly?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20871	No, 4 minutes 52 seconds. You are actually already at the end of your voluntary time limit. - Why the lamb doesn't flash, I don't know.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20887	A short sentence on civil service. The problem of civil servants is that they have to be indebted to civil service, quite rightly. [[Call the ÖVP:Go!]] That's it! Then you haven't talked to a civilian servant in the last three years. [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: Yes!]] Check with the civil servants! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister, at the end of the day: The budget is a numbering work. Having your handling of numbers She's shown today by always interpreting these in a way that's a mystery to me. I've got the 30. April was very well remembered when we discussed the establishment regulation in the main committee and you meant that Austria had the highest quota for family integration for decades. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: At all!]] But there has been no such quota for decades. I told you at the time that this was not true, but that this quota was twice as high as today in 1995/96. President Khol asked you to present the figures at this meeting of the main committee. I think there is one reason why you haven't done this to this day – that's almost two months ago – because what I said might be right. Our confidence in your interpretations of numbers is very low, so we will of course not agree to this budget either. [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: Vice versa too!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20967	The last speaker to this chapter is Mr Miedl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e20985	Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have big reforms behind us, for example the civil service reform. [[Abg. May. Prammer: That means nothing good yet!]] We have reformed the association law, reformed the security police law, created the integration treaty, distributed the transport offices, reformed the approval bodies. [[Abg. May. Worm: You haven't reformed!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Are you proud of all this?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Parnigoni, I listened very carefully to you earlier. We face the biggest challenge and the biggest reform the executive has experienced since the war. Do you know why this is possible? Because there are many police officers, gendarmen and executives who support this, and because there is a minister who trusts it. We are grateful for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where?]] Mr Parnigoni, I will tell you something: I have experienced the time of the SPÖ Ministers of the Interior. For 30 years a reform has not been undertaken! The wheel has confessed, nothing has happened. [[Abg. Ing. Chapeller: Stand still!]] I always thought of myself as a police officer at the time: What are the rulers doing here in the High House? There are things that would be going on. Nothing happened, and I can tell you exactly what I mean. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] [[Abg. Kößl: Jarolim! You don't understand!]] That which I am disappointed with is what is particularly moving the SPÖ in today's debate, namely that what has come of substance is zero. Now I'm gonna tell you a few things. Today we discussed the crime statistics with the crime report. We have discussed asylum law, we have discussed the reform of asylum law in approaches. But what it really is about, what the world-moving things have to be about, this dimension you, Mr Parnigoni, have in fact not completely seen! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: We are becoming a mockery in Europe!]] [[Abg. Kößl: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Jarolim) such a nonsense!]] Mr Jarolim, you do not object in any way. I was a witness in the Justice Committee when you urged the Minister of Justice that we put everyone behind the castle and bars in Austria. – Now I hear – I thought I didn’t trust my ears – how the same colleague Jarolim appears as a judge and says that we fail all the way because we are holding a lot of people in jail. Mr Jarolim, this is your policy! You have been recognized – and I have been through you for a long time, Mr. Cot! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] First point: Crime is urban. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Jarolim and Mag. Worm.]] - Listen to me! You can learn something, Mr Jarolim. You don't know that. Second point: The less personal contacts exist in an urban structure, the higher the anonymity and the higher the delicacy total. – By the way, this is not wisdom that applies specifically to Austria, but that is true all over the world. We are facing a major challenge in the urban area. Ladies and gentlemen! What happens in this regard has to be done for all of us in Europe, because the organized gangs are not coming to Austria because they want to do something to Minister Strasser. It is pretended as if the gangs were coming to Austria to do something to anyone, but they come to the best trained, well-trained country, not only to Austria, also to Germany, to Denmark and to Belgium. They are everywhere and are wrongfully getting the money they cannot get at home in a legitimate way. It's a bar, a bar, a bar, a bar! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to have more time to speak because I would like to say something to Mr Pendl. I would like to say something to Mrs Wurm, because you, Mrs Colleague, are very committed, really committed, just: They are usually in security matters. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, yes!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] You really don't know each other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Maier, the following conclusion: I was really concerned when Mr Maier made himself here and told about a secret service story. I didn't think that should be true: a Member who is being persecuted by the Minister! I listened very attentively, looked at the minister's mimik and noticed how he was angry. Then I looked at your mimik, Mr. Colleague, when you left the speaker's desk. They laughed and swung. That's where I knew: It's hot air you left out. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Mr Maier: You have me as an ally when it comes to defending and representing our Members' rights. But: I am not in favour of reproaching – and this has happened in this House at the security discussion, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would have expected more substance and more content, including you, Mr Maier. I'm sorry, but: The Austrian executive is better than the opposition here in the house. [[Abg. May. Worm: The Austrian executive didn't deserve you!]] – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e21208	Mr Parnigoni spoke for 2 minutes. He knows the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e21230	Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker claimed that I had not seen the dimension completely. I'm actually correcting him: I've completely captured the dimension! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kößl: There's no such thing as that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, there are more 100 000 offences in three years and a reconnaissance rate, which has fallen from 51.4 to almost 40%. That's fact! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[20:39]] External Chapter 20: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e21274	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now entering into the negotiations of the Exterior part, chapter 20. I thank Mr Strasser and expect Mrs Ferrero-Waldner. She's already hurrying down the stairs. We can start with the debate. Mr Deputies and President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have been announced for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e21302	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is late, speaking times are short, and it is therefore appropriate only to be punctual. animals. With regard to the external budget chapter, there are conflicting trends: Savings and increases – depending on the area. Sometimes this also appears to be a worthwhile attempt at focus sets. The costs in the headquarters are increasing disproportionately, including those for the representative authorities, although there are many significant staff savings. Worry us the rental costs when moving to the building of the Lower Austrian state government. It is certainly gratifying when one day all the services of the foreign office are together, but I do not know if it will be worth this price. As far as personnel savings are concerned, we know that this is really not easy, because they can be a problem in the preparations for the Austrian EU Presidency in 2006. As far as working methods and cooperation with Parliament, in particular with the opposition, are concerned, I would like to say that the contradictory tendencies of the budget figures continue. Sometimes the information and integration was very good, in other cases again not at all existent. If we want a common foreign policy, Mrs Minister, we should keep in constant contact, not just with cases, lusts and moods. With regard to Parliament's support and information by foreign representatives, including in the international and multilateral fields, I must say: This has worked very well, for which I would like to thank you and the staff. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask for and need to increase the transparency of ambassadors' occupations. The trend in the European countries is about hearings and detailed information in the foreign policy committees, and this should be so in Austria, especially at a time when many of your cabinet members will be taking up new positions, which is, of course, legitimate and in order, but one should speak and inform openly about it and leave nothing to suspect. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address a matter of substance and say: Well, I wonder a little bit about your silence, Mrs. Federal Minister, but maybe that's a policy of the middle again. The United States is going to Central and Eastern Europe – wait a minute! – with their desire to exclude persons of the United States from the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court through bilateral agreements. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] A great deal of pressure is being exerted on states, financial resources are being used and much more is needed, and some countries in South-East Europe have to surrender because they simply cannot afford to question economic projects. Romania, Georgia and Albania have already signed, Albania has not yet ratified, and the signing of Macedonia, Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia and Montenegro is being dealt with. On this point, Europe is called for. It is necessary for the EU to help these countries not to put pressure on them. It is also necessary for countries such as Austria, which wanted to play a role in this region, to raise their votes against the outpouring of the International Criminal Court and against the attempt to direct it with money in international politics and law.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e21368	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e21386	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to keep it in one with my colleague, Mr Schieder, which is to give a brief speech later in the evening before this plenary session. I agree with Mr Schieder on a number of points. However, I would like to begin by stressing that there is a significant increase in the 2004 budget approach compared with the 2003 and 2002 budget estimates. This is due to a higher dosage of development aid. This is what we all wanted in the House, and I believe it is also to the satisfaction of all the political groups here in the House that we are making 35 percent more available for development aid in 2004 than it was in 2003. I'm glad about it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I would like to say to the budget that it is also a matter of concern to me - when visiting, we are often made aware that Austrian embassies also need to be able to produce the facilities again in such a way that they are in order and that there is a corresponding effectiveness in relation to the public. There is now a focus here too. Mrs Bundesminister, and I think that is very well! In my opinion, however, the following must also be addressed in the context of a budget debate: We have just seen in the recent past that the Austrian representative authorities and the Austrian diplomacy are in demand as a service provider, especially when something happens abroad and a citizen or a citizen needs help from the Austrian representation. We have seen what is happening to the ten hostages in Algeria, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can do an excellent job there, a discreet work and a very effective work. The fact that the ten hostages were liberated after 51 days and were able to come to Austria without harm was largely also an effect achieved by the foreign office with the diplomats, with the special mission. I would like to thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, and all the staff of the Foreign Office for this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This service task is extremely important. It is asked and appreciated by the citizens, and I believe that many employees of the Foreign Office can do a lot for Austrians. Thirdly, as regards current questions, I can add the following: Mrs Bundesminister, after a discussion in the main committee yesterday, you also stated to the public that you were praising the outcome of the EU Convention, but of course you also wanted to change. I think that's right and I want to. I believe that as much as it is necessary to praise the work of the Convention and also of the Austrian members in the Convention, it must not remain the case that, for example, smaller and medium-sized countries do not have a vote in a Commission, because in the future only 15 in a rotation system which is not clearly designed should be represented by the seat and the vote. I also believe that the election of the European President in the Council is not yet the final conclusion of wisdom, namely that one will be elected president for two and a half years and will not be head of government. Ladies and gentlemen, whether this really makes progress for Europe, I dare to doubt it. I therefore believe that the basic substance should be adopted in such a way that, in these detail issues, which are also important for Austria, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs and Security, as a fighter for Austria is required, and it will also solve these questions with all our satisfaction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e21447	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for Lunacek. Desirable speaking time: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e21465	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also start by thanking all those officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who have done very important work in recent years, both domestically and abroad, and will continue to do it in the future. I expressly thank you for the important work needed to represent Austria well abroad, and I am particularly grateful to the employees, the officials in the respective embassies, who have had cuts in staff and budget in recent years and for whom it is often not easy to carry on this work. You have to imagine this: In a ministry in which all officials work in a building, it is also not always easy, but perhaps even more possible that someone is replaced by someone else or takes on an additional job, but in a message that has three to five or maybe seven employees, it is difficult to replace a missing person. That is why a very special thanks to these employees! I would also like to thank all those who, in the course of foreign travel, which we are making within the framework of Parliament, are very important and very helpful for contacts with Members and are trying to bring us closer to the situation in the respective countries and to make ourselves available to us organisationally and in terms of content. I would like to thank you, Mrs Minister, to forward to your employees. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is, of course, difficult to accept that there will be further cuts in the external budget chapter, as your answers in the Committee on Budgets have made clear, and there must also be further staff savings in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think that's a process that needs to end sometime. There must again be an increase in the other direction, because I cannot imagine how Austria will be able to perform much greater tasks in a globalised world in this area if this external representation is increasingly given less financial weight. I hope there will be a turnaround in the future, or: There must be them, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, let me address a number of points of content which I am concerned about and which, as I think, are now to be debated. You once meant that you see Austria's foreign policy in the form of concentric circles, in the following sense: We start with us and then go piece by piece into the world! I do not really share this view, but to pursue a certain structure, we do it now. I will start with the issue of EU enlargement. Fortunately, it is now clear – and I am very pleased about that – that this Federal Government is now no longer making threats. It has not announced either, and I am particularly thinking of the liberal members of the Federal Government that there will be difficulties in ratification. I hope I will not hear it from you, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't say threats!]] – You may not personally be, but others of your group. Don't do this now, because there was quite a stir in this respect during the last legislative period. [[Abg. Scheibner shakes his head no more.]] Don't shake your head because you know exactly what I'm talking about. Veto threats to the Czech Republic were not really a great thing for Austrian foreign policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: Threats did not exist!]] That was really not a great time when veto threats were repeatedly pronounced here. That is why I am very glad that there is no longer any such one, that it is clear that these treaties will be ratified by all the Members of the Austrian Parliament, and I hope that they will be all 183 Members. Mrs. Minister! However, one point is still a problem, even if it may be only a small one, and we will no longer need that in one year's time, namely two small agreements between the Czech Republic and Austria, namely the border crossing agreement and the intern agreement. This has been signed almost two years ago by Mr Bartenstein and his then Czech counterpart, but in the past legislative period it has never been sent to the Foreign Policy Committee, i.e. to Parliament. At the beginning of April, when we were sitting with President Khol on the plane to Prague, I had to learn that this had now been sent to the Council of Ministers but was taken back from the list, and since then it has not seen the light of the Council of Ministers or of this Parliament. My question to It therefore reads as follows: Will this agreement come to the Council of Ministers before the Czech Republic joins the EU? Afterwards, we won't need it anymore. Will this be in the near future, that is, in the next Council of Ministers? Will we still be able to ratify this by the National Council? Or, if I meet representatives of the Czech Republic, I have to say: I am sorry, the government is now on the enlargement timetable, there will be no veto against Czech accession to the EU, but there will be no border and intern agreement!Unknown term type: "%s".? Should I say: This agreement, which has been in place with Hungary for years, would be very important for people in the border regions, and Minister Bartenstein also ratified it, but the Council of Ministers did not adopt it, because there seem to be still some who do not want it!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mrs. Minister! I would really like to have an answer from you to these questions. I would really like to know the answer to the question: Will it be forwarded to Parliament, will it still be decided, or will we have to wait until the Czech Republic joins the EU? Will it then be called: There will be no way for people living in border regions to improve their language skills or similar skills in the context of such an agreement!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mrs Minister, I hope you will give me an answer. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another aspect is development cooperation. There will be a subcommittee next Monday, in which we will debate the new legislation. However, I would like to mention some of the points that I consider to be problematic in this new law and in the way of dissemination. I already see it as an important first step that the budget has been increased at least for 2004. But you have to say that it has been reduced a little for 2003 again. Somehow it's a policy according to the motto: First we go back two steps and then we go ahead, and then we sell one as a great success! I really don't see that as a huge success. Mrs Minister, you gave me the answer in the Committee on Budgets to my question: There is no binding financing plan until 2006, but Austria has informed the EU Commission that it will reach the 0.33% mark. Now I'm asking You again: What should be in 2005 and 2006? This must be at least €100 million per year, and that is not so little for a budget. My question to It therefore reads as follows: Why didn't you go on such a binding financing plan with the Minister of Finance? Why is there still no such one? As you want to release at least €100 million for development cooperation for 2005 and 2006, and that after your failure in recent years to get more money from the Ministry of Finance for EZA, I wonder. How do you want to guarantee that? There are too few words about the EU Commission. Why is there no such binding plan? The words in the budget speech of the Minister of Finance are too few for me, Mrs Minister. As far as the proposal for a law itself is concerned – we have already discussed some points – I would like to say: On the other hand, I have nothing to do with the fact that Austrian companies or the Austrian economy are to be more involved. The point is just the: Throughout the law, non-governmental organisations do not appear to be such as those which represent a very important part of civil society and which also play a very important role in this. Or another point: It says that the new agency to be set up can also obtain the fees for its services from third parties. We have asked you in committee who these third parties are. You said the EU and perhaps the ERP Fund. And on the question of who else and why you don't write it, you said you don't want to exclude anyone. – This leaves door and door open for all possible assumptions, such as: First, a company sponsors something, and afterwards this company might want a job. Mrs. Minister! That's very unclear! A law with such ambiguities, of course, opens the door and door for suspicions, who then finances anything. Above all, if you say that the Austrian economy must also support it more strongly, I am concerned whether it can be financed really clearly and clearly and cleanly. Mrs. Minister! Now I – and just briefly because of the advanced period – come to a subject that, at this time, is quite close to those who do not deal with Africa. The situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo in the north-east of the country has recently also become more visible in our media. There has recently been an EU mandate for the use of UN mandates, where Austria has also agreed and agreed to send soldiers. We decided yesterday in the main committee: There are not five, as was planned, but only three. In your office yesterday, Minister Strasser said that only three had been requested. I think that is good and nice and necessary, but there is a need for politics. I therefore ask you, Mrs Minister: Have you had discussions with the Austrian representations there? These are coordination offices – we do not have embassies in the neighbouring countries of Rwanda and Uganda, but these two neighbouring countries are key countries in Austrian development cooperation. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] These two countries, this is a region adjacent to this conflict region. And that's why one of my questions or requests to you is: Have you contacted the Austrian representations in these two countries in order to also influence the respective countries, namely the governments of Rwanda and Uganda? – These two countries support each other’s peoples. I think it would be a task for the Austrian Foreign Minister to try to influence these two governments, because the support of the conflict parties by these two states is anything but helpful. Second point: There is another UN mission in the Congo, MONUC, which has been trying to act as a peacekeeping force for some time to improve the situation there. Austria has provided some support for this up to this year, but in the 2003 budget, Mrs Minister – I have already faced you with this in a written request – the funds for MONUK, for this UN peacekeeping force in Congo, are reduced by €3 million. Yesterday in the main committee session, where you unfortunately were not present, Mrs Minister, I asked whether, given the fact that there will be this mission under the title ‘Artemis’, but that UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, as well as in your presentation to the main committee, is trying to increase the UN peace team MONUK, from your side give consideration – I thought it necessary and sensible – to spend this amount of €3 million, which was deleted in the budget today? You, Mrs Minister, answered my written question in a way like this: Well, the UN has not requested this money, so you have not been able to spend it and so you have, as it were, reduced the budget for it! It is now clear that this peacekeeping force should be increased again, and, Mrs Minister, I thought it was very useful and necessary in the sense of an Austrian peace policy – even if you do not always sign, sign and act in this sense in the sense that we Greens do not sign it – that this 3 million € will be included in the budget, that this reduction will not take place and that this amount of the peace mission mentioned will be made available in the Congo. I think it is necessary to make a contribution to peacekeeping. It is already extremely difficult to be active in this region in peace-political terms. It is very difficult, it will be difficult, but I think that few of what Austria can do should we also do. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] Mr President. I am already at the end of my contribution and hope that Mrs Foreign Minister will actually answer my questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e21575	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. The clock is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e21594	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the budget of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also traditionally less a debate on money, and you too, Mrs Foreign Minister, rightly still complain that, in fact, it is still too little and could be more; in this justified lamentation, we have always found ourselves. I believe that the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is less a debate on money and budget chapters, but rather the fundamental issue of the principle of foreign policy. Unfortunately, there seems to be little interest on the part of the media today, certainly also due to the late hour. I hope we can do it once – we need to get a little bit on the nose as well – to discuss this important topic of foreign policy at a slightly more attractive time too! [[As a surprise to the liberals as well as to representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I just mention a few points, even because Mrs Lunacek has challenged me a little about EU and European policy. – Mrs Lunacek! Ladies and gentlemen! I once brought a very honourable and excellent diplomat a bit out of the concept by a question – quite ironically. I asked him: Mr Ambassador, briefly define: What is the objective of Austrian foreign policy? – In fact, he couldn’t give me an answer like he shot out of the gun, which I actually expected. This too is one of the fundamental issues I mentioned earlier. We should talk about this: What is the objective of foreign policy at all – and in particular of Austrian foreign policy? Mrs Lunacek, you mentioned the EU and the Veto threat. – We believe – and I believe, also the entire Austrian Federal Government – that the objective of Austrian foreign policy – not only, but also, perhaps, especially – is the representation of the interests of the Republic of Austria and its population abroad: Whether this is inside or outside the European Union. That's the principle! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have seen our European policy in the same way – in order to explain it to you again. I know that we have been told that this is an anti-European policy. But I can tell you: The Freedom Party was already for Europe, for the common Europe, even for the then European Community, when your party did not yet exist! [[towards Greens]] At that time, all the other parties were very, very skeptical of this idea of a united, large Europe as a peace project. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: You know very well that this is not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Your predecessor party...! Let's go back in history!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, and this “but” please do not understand negatively! – even here, the principle must apply that we have to represent the interests of Austria and its people in relation to this important project of a common and united Europe! We have always brought this critically. And I believe that this is quite meaningful and for Europe – and is not directed against Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, also from the Greens! I am convinced that this project of a common Europe will only work if it is borne by the awareness of the population. And we all know that this awareness of Europe does not yet exist to the extent that we would all wish for it as a European politician. We get this awareness of Europe when the population sees that this Europe is an opportunity – including for the people of Austria – and not a danger. And it will not be a danger if the population has the feeling that politicians, Austrian politicians, are sitting here, who are putting everything into the fact that exactly these are our interests accordingly represented. And if you say, Veto threats, that's a little contradiction. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Yours, not ours!]] You have now accused us of threatening with Veto at the time. - But apologise: If you are in the middle of negotiations, you will probably have to develop a maximum of negotiating position, and then finally bring together one, as I hope, good and reasonable compromise, of which we can all say: Yes, we can stand behind it! Only in this way can we justify the trust that the population – including the critical part of the population – has placed in our representation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As you agree with your line of criticism of the government, I do not understand how we, as you have said, have completed the energy chapter “for quick” – for example in nuclear policy! The non-A conclusion of a chapter is in fact equivalent to a veto – and means that this country cannot join and the Treaty of Accession is not concluded. We went another way and said: We're not bringing in any of these fixed limits, but we're negotiating to the end. We have not implemented ourselves in all, but in many areas, such as free movement with the transitional periods. I am also thinking of the milking process and, wherever I hope there will be a result, for example with the Czech Republic, which is the result of the Beneš decrees. This is also a result of this clear, strict, sometimes also hard negotiating position. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: That's not true!]] I think it will be necessary to continue this in the future. We really see – even though we are on the road internationally – that there are many people in the European Union, many officials, including politicians who make all possible decisions and confessions to this common Europe, but when you talk to people, you can see that it does not look as if this awareness of Europe were really in the minds, but above all in the hearts of these people. But that would be important! Therefore, it must not be allowed to allow a bureaucracy in Brussels to decide from above what is good for people and to regulate everything possible. I believe that the solution of the core tasks, the support of a positive development of a European society with regard to the characteristics and diversity of the countries in Europe, is needed. And these problems need to be resolved. In doing so, we Austrians can bring a lot of historical experience to Austrian foreign policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But it is also about looking at the situation outside Europe. Mrs Lunacek, you have referred to Africa and it is right: A few hours ago, the main committee and the Federal Government decided to send out an Austrian party. But I have to tell you: I'm a little skeptical. We are in favour of this, but I would have preferred a different strategy, especially in the case of peacekeeping in Africa. I also discussed this with Mr UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, saying: I do not understand why we are necessarily sending UN quotas from Sweden, Norway, Austria or, for example, Holland to regions that are so different from all the experiences these soldiers, police officers and other Peace-Keeping experts have from their home countries. There are, of course, problems to be integrated into the culture there, into the circumstances, but also into the framework conditions – from the climate alone. It would be much more useful to support the stable countries of Africa – and there is no doubt this – so that they can build up their own and functioning Peace-Keeping quotas, crisis management capacities, which can then be used in these countries: with the support of Europe and the United Nations. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: But there is also a need to provide more resources for these quotas!]] I believe that this is a difficult approach, perhaps just a medium to long-term approach, but at least a more sensible approach than if we are celebrating here that we are sending three or five soldiers to a region that we have little experience of, both in terms of the environment and, for example, the climate conditions or other conditions. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Then we will not send them at all!]] I'll tell you: This would be the more sensible medium to long-term approach in this area. Next point: Security policy; also an important means of foreign policy. – Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, especially of the Greens! I would expect you to see a little more of the commonplace, that you go away from day-to-day policy – something that may be popular and perhaps a little more up-to-date in the short term – and that you aim more at future prospects, more at real needs. I also wish that less in dogmas, in terms, be argued, but that we seek more benefits for us, for Europe and for a global security policy. We might perhaps have some discussions here about alliances, about joint cooperation in security policy, different from what was often the case in the past – and unfortunately still is in the present. These would also be interesting things to discuss if we were to debate foreign policy and the possibilities of this foreign policy. Finally, what would be important to me, Mrs Foreign Minister – I know that you are going to be in conformity with us, and I really want to congratulate you on your management and also on the view of most of your officials in the field of foreign policy: [[Federal Minister Dr. Ferrero-Waldner: Thank you!]] What is missing is a networking of all foreign policy activities in the wider sense. This is not only about agendas relating to your place of business, but also about those relating, for example, to the economic resort, as well, of course, other areas. It would be interesting to develop a strategy here, especially when it comes to promoting development cooperation, for example, when it comes to thinking about: Where do we send, for example, quotas of our federal army? There should be more cohesion, because we should cooperate with the economy, so that we not only participate intensively in reconstruction payments, but also in how Austrian companies can be involved: with all our know-how, with all our possibilities, also with our financial services, in order to contribute to reconstruction in these crisis areas. This would be a networked, offensive and positive foreign policy. In this regard, we all have a lot to do together, because we see that many businesses are theoretically talking about opening up international markets, but some lack the courage to go to areas where a market can only be identified for the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I hope that we will be able to talk more thoroughly about principles in foreign policy – and that we will return to that national consensus that has once existed in Austria in foreign policy, a consensus that is usually used internationally – and which would certainly be very useful for our country too.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e21799	Mrs Ferrero-Waldner spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e21817	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! A debate on the budget also gives the opportunity to talk about the policy of a ministry – and I am pleased to be able to do this now. Ladies and gentlemen! We are living at a time when a new Europe is emerging, a new Europe in which Austria has a very important role in the enlarged European Union, as I believe. We have seen with what enthusiasm many of the countries adjacent to Austria have completed their referendums in the last few days and weeks. And I think that gives rise to hope that those speakers who are still missing will also find a positive conclusion. In this way, there will be ten new Member States in the European Union – and I believe that this has already shown that a good path has been taken for a stronger Europe. But: This must, of course, go hand in hand, and this deepening is currently being tried in the European Convention. I believe that the Convention – to which I may congratulate all the Convention members – has done basically good work, above all, a lot has been worked, but you know anyway: I'm not quite satisfied! I believe that this EU Convention was a good starting point and a good basis for work, but the Intergovernmental Conference, which will begin in mid-October, will, of course, continue to be based on this basis of work. I believe that these are three essential points that we would like to see taken up once again. For example, I ask myself the question: Why must there really be a President of the European Council? As I believe, with the rotation of the Presidency among the individual countries, it has been repeatedly shown that we take equality seriously that we also take the equality between the institutions seriously. And when I think back to my own Austrian Presidency: This was, as I mean, a very good one, but, of course, at the same time required us enormously. Why is it actually trying to stop this by creating an EU President for two and a half years, who at the same time – no matter what his position in detail will look like – will build a parallel bureaucracy with the European Commission President?- Oh, my God! I believe that this question is very important, because it concerns either the Commission's community – or intergovernmentalization on the other hand. Even if this is a little better in this compromise proposal, which is already on the table, even though many things have been withdrawn, I am still not happy with it. - That's the first point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. We've always asked: What is more important to the identity of a country than to be represented by its own Commissioner? We've always found: Every country must be represented in every institution! And I believe that right here in Parliament, where it is always important that all parliamentary parties have the opportunity to be represented in all the committees, we must understand this position. I hope that it will succeed in bringing a global Austrian position to the Intergovernmental Conference in this regard. In any case, the last word has not yet been spoken; this has proved very clear in the General Affairs Council yesterday. There are a number of countries that do not agree with this position and there cannot be larger countries in the Commission with 15 – but 14 remain outside! This would, as it were, be a new Security Council – and this would certainly not work in the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The third point: It is important that there is an effective, strong and efficient Europe. And how can you achieve this better than by going the way towards a qualified majority – and not staying with the principle of unanimity? When we look at the mistakes made so far in many areas, such as the mistakes during the Iraq crisis, we see that the positions were so different that they could hardly be led to each other. You have to go in this direction, even if you have to give up sovereignty by doing so. I believe that this is very important – except, of course, the military issues which, because of their sensitivity, need to be decided unanimously in the future. We will also fight for this, ladies and gentlemen, and I also ask for your support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These two questions will, of course, also be at the top of the agenda at the Thessaloniki European Council. But another question, which must be very important to us Austrians in particular, must be on the agenda, and that is the question of the Western Balkans or, as we better say today, of South-East Europe. I believe that South-East Europe must have support for the continuation of reforms, for the stabilisation and association process, which is important to these countries, which began in Zagreb in 2000, but which is far from complete. These countries, which, of course, are extremely important for our economic but also for our stable political development, have only one objective: They want a real European perspective. In order to achieve this perspective, we must support them in the reforms. But we can only give this support if we also increase the funds. That is to say, we decided yesterday, in principle, to increase the CARDS programmes. These are not so called accession partnerships, but they are called European partnerships, and they will be used exactly where they will be needed in particular, namely on the issue of border management, on security, on the issue of tow, corruption and cetera, where real deficits are. I think that if we clearly represent this position, then this European perspective for those countries of south-eastern Europe can also be continued positively. And Austria, I can say, is a country that is very, very closely accompanying these states. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP, the Freeman and the Deputies of the SPÖ.]] Another point, ladies and gentlemen, which has also been raised, is the operation of Artemis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We have by no means forgotten that there has been a situation that has already occurred in Rwanda in a similar form. At that time nothing was done, but unfortunately the international community did not listen at that time, but at least did not respond in time. This time the UN Secretary-General has responded, and this time the Union has declared itself ready for a joint action within three weeks – and this is very quick in the Union. I very much supported Mr Platter's sending a few soldiers. I am pleased that this has succeeded, because we show solidarity with it. But I also raised a special issue yesterday in the General Affairs Council when this matter came up: You will remember that when I was the chairman of this Human Security Network, I also have a curriculum for child soldiers developed in addition to the human rights education manual. And where, if not there, are child soldiers now used, where, if not there, do you need exactly that? This curriculum says that all field soldiers who are used there are supposed to proceed after this curriculum. This was seen positively yesterday and mentioned in the conclusion. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the issues of foreign policy are always very diverse, so one tries to focus on some. Of course, I do not want to miss out on two more issues. Firstly, development cooperation. I am very pleased – and I thank you all for recognizing this – that the extension of operational development cooperation, which is linked to an increased budget in development cooperation, will be possible by addressing in the EZA Subcommittee all the questions you have just mentioned here in brief. It is very important that one receives synergies with the economy on the one hand, but on the other hand, Mrs Lunacek, we have not forgotten the NGOs. The NGOs – I have said it again and again, and you know it – are being treated better than in any other country of the European Union. 50 percent of all projects are carried out in Austria via NGOs, but the Agency also has a chance that the Agency can also manage funds at European level and may even be implementing agencies. That's why I think we're gonna find a good way here. In detail, we are talking about this in the committee. It's just a little bit more than two questions. – Mrs Lunacek, you asked: What about the cuts in Congo? – Well, I can tell you that our budgets for UN operations – and that is why they have been in the past – are always compulsory contributions. Of course, these compulsory contributions will only be settled in retrospect. Therefore, no change has yet been observed. The recording of the costs of short-term changes can only take place in retrospect with regard to national budget planning. Example Congo: In view of the significant deterioration in the situation on the ground, the UN Secretary-General, in a special report, on 27 November, adopted a resolution on the implementation of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights in the European Union. In May, a strengthening of the presence of monuc was proposed. The UN Security Council then took place on 30 June. We will now have a stronger presence there. Of course, Austria will be taking part in this presence, but will also have to pay joint costs. We will not give the bill until after that. So it is not true that we are using less funds for Congo or for other African countries. A short time ago, on a question concerning the ICC, the International Court of Justice, which was referred to by Mr Arbitrator. I can tell you that there is a common position here of the European Union, which, of course, depends on Austria. The Americans are trying to undermine or partly reduce the International Court of Justice through bilateral derogations agreements. Austria and the Union do not want this, and we, of course, as the European Union, have made this position clear to both the Croatians, the Bosnians and the others. Some have stuck to it, others have said they can and can't do it. That means it's not like we didn't do anything. We have discussed it very well, but the Union is not always strong enough here. Thank you very much, I know my time is over, Mr. Klubobmann is looking at me. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Time is not over! The speaking time!]] I shall now end my speech. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e21914	The speaking time had not yet expired, but please. Member of the European Parliament One is the next speaker. I'll give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e21935	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me, because of the short time available, deal very closely with one or the other. Mrs Bundesminister, at first maybe a word on the Convention. I have full understanding, in particular, of the experiences we have made in the Convention, that everyone who has his own position on the Convention and on individual questions of the Convention understands very well why his own position is his own position. I would just ask you to take this into account in your opinions on the outcome of the Convention, perhaps taking into account that not some children have been gathered together for a year and a half, but that we have therefore come to those results that are now available, because there have been such and such positions, and because it was necessary to agree on a consensus, on a compromise – even if I personally do not believe that we need, for example, a longer term President-in-Office, for example. It does not help us if we constantly tell ourselves what we believe. Finally, we have to find a compromise, and I would expect the Foreign Minister to deal with such a result more cautiously than immediately saying: I have a wish, and he's always been different, and he's still different now. I was also another one, but we should understand that politics is something else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs Bundesminister, let me also say something about three special issues that have played a role in connection with the Convention. As you know, the security provisions of the Convention proposal include the establishment of a European Office for Armaments, Research and Military Skills. I think this makes sense without giving up long-sleeping reasons. However, I think it would be appropriate for Austria to take an initiative from us – and this does not have to be in amendment of the draft Constitution – also to create a European Institute for Conflict Prevention. Ladies and gentlemen! So it is right that the European Union should consider doing things together, for example in the procurement of arms or in arms research, so much so as to make it clear that it is not only about operating arms better and more consistent, but also about systematically dealing with the experiences of conflict prevention and providing Union bodies with them. I therefore invite you to become active for such an initiative, which is very, very good at the face of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Third point: The draft Constitution contains a proposal on a voluntary assistance pact between EU Member States within the Union. I have no doubt that this proposal will not become a consensus, because both the UK and other NATO countries will not accept it, either Sweden and Finland or Ireland. However, I think it is necessary – and I say this again today, I said it at the last meeting of the main committee – to find a solution that ensures that the minimum level of solidarity we need within the European Union is ultimately also found in the Constitution. What do I mean by that? . I mean that no one can imagine, of course we can't, that if a Member State of the European Union is attacked militaryly, which, fortunately, is highly unlikely today, the others simply reject and say: Bad luck, he's been attacked. I think it is possible to find and find a solution in which the Union will become a broker of solidarity and ensure that the other Member States, within the framework of their constitutional, economic and also military possibilities, provide the assistance they can provide in order to help the threatened or attacked state. I have put forward written proposals to this end. I think we will also need compromise proposals in the context of the Intergovernmental Conference. Leave You've told me the last time, A paper has been drawn up and presented in recent days, a draft European Council statement on the fundamental principles of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. I welcome this extremely and expressly, because I think that on the one hand a lesson from the disaster of European foreign policy in connection with Iraq will be drawn. This teaching is drawn in so far as there is now suddenly a concept that is indeed diverse and multifaceted – and that is correct in the basic approach. That is why I would like to stress this explicitly. At the same time, however, I would like to say that there is still a risk that has also become devastating in the case of Iraq. I think it is also necessary that, if, as has been done in this paper – and for the first time, if I understand correctly – one has to create in the Union the possibility of violent intervention as the last of the possibilities, one must also ensure that the appropriate analytical skills are created in the Union, which allow it to judge more effectively than that which has apparently happened in the case of the Iraq conflict. I think there's something else to do, and I wanted to express myself for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22014	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22033	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would also like to start by saying a few words about the Convention. I believe that the three points mentioned by Mrs Bundesminister are already those that need to be considered. For example, the Presidency: When I remember – I was not yet a Member of Parliament, with the study just finished – at the beginning of Austria’s membership in the European Union, Austria was given the first Presidency of the Council. And how was that for all of us? – For the first time, a Europe that can be felt in Austria! I believe that there is an incredible amount to lose when we give up this rotating presidency, which is an incredible amount of sensitivity to Europe for people across Europe. For this reason, much more than for all institutional reasons, I would be incredibly sorry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, on the question of Commissioners without competence, without portfolios and without voting rights. It would, I believe, be quite inconceivable with us and would rightly be criticized by the opposition, for example, we would introduce ministers without competence and without voting rights in the Council of Ministers. Offices to pay, lausers at the door, white elephants somewhere – such objectively in no single European country, even imaginable institutions and functions should now be accepted at European level as the smallest common denominator, just because one cannot agree on something meaningful? I think it is very much up to policy to fight and ensure reasonable and acceptable solutions, apart from the smallest common compromise and the very least common denominator. I believe that it is important to do so in this respect, as I hope, with great agreement between the political groups. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As a spokesperson for development policy, however, I would like to focus on what, in my view, is also a historic moment for development cooperation: We decide for 2004 the highest ever-determined increase in a development aid budget, the highest development cooperation budget that this Republic has ever seen in terms of gross domestic product. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The development cooperation budget was increased by a total of €30 million in 2004, of which 20 million will go to bilateral development cooperation, especially in the countries of the south, to the poorest countries in the world. – We are here again at the conflict prevention that all colleagues have already mentioned. I thank Federal Minister Ferrero-Waldner, on the one hand, for having fought these funds hard. What has been done in this area in recent years, Mrs Bundesminister, requires the highest appreciation and the greatest thanks in the sense of one of the most important tasks, namely to maintain peace, which we have at all in foreign policy. – Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hallelujah!]] With these € 20 million of course not enough! In addition, €6 million will be added to the East Aid, which, as I believe, is a particularly important area in which our competences are large not only in the economic field, but also in support and assistance – another €4 million in international organisations in the field of development cooperation. In addition, the government programme provided for the further increase in development cooperation appropriations to 0.33 percent of GDP by 2006 – our foreign minister said thank you again – which has never been achieved in other constellations in previous government programmes. These funds are now to be managed more professionally, especially as they are increasing so much. This is why an agency is set up, which is absolutely necessary and which we will discuss in greater detail next week in the relevant subcommittee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22093	Mrs Lichtenberger spoke. The speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22112	Ladies and gentlemen! Before I turn to the central issue of my previous speakers, namely the Convention, let me briefly address some of the comments that have been made here and which, in part, have to be put right. Mrs Hakl, that the budget for development aid is higher this year, is unfortunately only a numerical phenomenon. In reality, we have lost percentage – and that is probably what counts – behind a stand that we had already reached. [[Abg. May. Hakl: 2000... the highest budget of all time!]] You too should know that there is something like changes in the financial sector that occasionally result in the figures not remaining the same for centuries. I think this is an important insight that you might once become your own. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Heinzl.]] Second point: I am still allowed a small excursion to the foreign policy of the “little man” on which Mr Scheibner referred, who once again referred to the veto question and its impact on Austrian politics, especially the Austrian reputation abroad. Mr Scheibner is not present at the moment, but the following must nevertheless be said here: The announcement of various vetos, almost already in the monthly period, has on different topics – unfortunately, in my discussions at European level, I have been able to see this again and again – led to the fact that it was not the impression that these topics were important to us, but that the question was raised: Yes, are the Austrians against enlargement at all costs, and are they right to do so? – That was exactly the result of the announcement of vetos three times on various topics. Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, the reputation of the consistency that Austrian foreign policy once had was greatly damaged. Unfortunately, you have to take note of this! But now on the subject of Convention. – Mrs Minister, you have said that the Convention was really a good preparation for an Intergovernmental Conference. But I must tell you – and I believe that I share this feeling with almost all the Convention members – that this Convention was more than the preparatory meeting of an Intergovernmental Conference, at which the results of this Intergovernmental Conference can then be re-opened and changed as desired. Mrs. Minister! If you see this only as a starting point, as a preparatory meeting for an Intergovernmental Conference, you are truly in bad society of those who are very negative to European development. It was our problem, in fact, that precisely the government groups have been the ones that have made us aware of what they are criticizing today, namely a purely intergovernmentalism in foreign policy. Mrs Minister, that was the problem! The government representatives – and not the Members of Parliament – have slowed down further development. This must be taken note of. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Ferrero-Waldner: Not everyone!]] Even if you are today in a partner look with the Federal Chancellor – i.e. yellow tie, yellow costume; look quite bold –: In your further work, please do not accept this attitude of the government representatives! We need other voting and decision-making mechanisms here if there is to be further development. And when it comes to the content you have also addressed: Yes, I too am not happy with this question of the Presidency. I also do not think that this is a productive process, that we now have, in addition to a President of the Commission, this somewhat rolling construction of a President of the Council. I also believe that it is particularly important for the candidate countries in the early stages to have this presidency in order to identify with Europe, and that, at least for a time, the rotation must continue. But there was an effort by all Convention members to find a compromise across all borders, including a compromise with the UK – and you know how difficult that is. That's why I appeal to you, Mrs. Minister: What happens if you open up this difficult compromise now? Then, not only the points that have been considered critically, but also the UK, for example, comes back and wants to eliminate the anchoring of fundamental rights in the future European Treaty. I appeal to you, despite your partner look, to take thoughtful action with the Federal Chancellor here in order not to fall back further behind a result that has been laborious but yet achieved. I am in favour of this compromise, which has been achieved, even though I naturally criticise it in detail, but it is also a fact that, if more than 20 European states are trying to find a common way, not every state will enforce all its wishes and concerns. I would ask you, Mrs Minister, to support the Convention in those points where movement is still possible. I would like to mention these points briefly: This, for example, is the question that, from my point of view, it is urgently necessary for the Convention to continue to be mandated, so as a Convention, we have the opportunity to discuss the third part, and above all the question of EURATOM can be added to a failed solution. Mrs Minister, I expect you to take a lead in this matter, that you are trying, even at the Intergovernmental Conference, to set the course in such a way that we can find a successful solution to EURATOM. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This failed solution can only be the outcome of what we have proposed, namely the so-called sunset clause: 2007 is supposed to end with the nonsense of a contract that has lost nothing in the new millennium. [[Abg. Murauer:... find European Greens! They're eh...!]] I would also ask you, Mrs Minister, to make once again your concern to the question of structured cooperation and the power of the military sector over civilians in foreign policy through different decision-making mechanisms. There must be a change here, here Europe on the global stage must hold up the civil flag and must not try, so to speak, to hunt the arms tasks into the immeasurable in an approach of the same height with the USA. Mrs. Minister! This is a grateful task for you, and with it you have a lot to do! In this context, a UN mandate for the European Union's operations should also be provided for. This would also provide us with many opportunities for a joint decision, for example with the neutral countries. We have to make this happen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last thing about the budget – something that will be very busy for us in the next few years: If there will be a European Foreign Minister and a European foreign policy, it will also need what Farnleitner, as representative of the Federal Chancellor, has repeatedly stressed: We will have to prepare diplomatic services for this task, and we will need a European diplomatic service. We must look at this transition and transfer phase very carefully and together, I think, in order to organize it optimally. That means, Mrs. Minister: The next Intergovernmental Conference and the next Intergovernmental Conferences are more than central and important. Support You here the Convention in his work, and don't try to score exclusively on the internal political stage!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22213	The next speaker is Mr Mainoni. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22231	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Now, of course, I am referring briefly to Mrs Lichtenberger's comments: For a long time before we have voiced liberal veto threats, the reputation of Austria has already been damaged, namely by a number of important politicians in the European Union, who have believed that they will do something about sanctions against Austria. [[Abg. Oellinger: Bossi!]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: You have exchanged cause and effect!]] It was long before the Veto threat came from our side – I honestly admit that it did not cause anything. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Mr Scheibner said the opposite first!]] Our veto threats have done just as little as your policy, by the way, because at Temelín you drive the same way – and you have to give me the right in the result – about us as well as the Beneš decrees. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Who's driving over you?]] The assessment of whether the veto threat was useful or not is therefore only relative, because your policy has just as little led to success! The importance of foreign policy has proved these sanctions. Austria has been approached. The perpetrators are known, we don't need to talk about these today. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: We are now talking about the 2003 budget...!]] In this context, foreign policy means that, thanks to discretion, wise action and, above all, an elegant foreign policy, the Sanctioners have emblazoned themselves on our part. This is a successful foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The fact that the others are blaming is a successful foreign policy? - That's a little ghost!]] Good foreign policy can also be a silent one. They all remember: When German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer was asked about the abolition of sanctions – this blamable result for those who have imposed the sanctions – whether he might not want to apologize to Austria, he simply criticized “A devil I will do!” – there is reasonable foreign policy to say nothing at all, for these statements are self-evident! [[Abg. Großruck: I'm going to make a devil!]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] However, I should like to refer briefly to the results of the EU Convention, because the future foreign policy of Austria is, of course, greatly influenced by this European Constitutional Treaty. I should like to mention just a few important points which have not yet been mentioned and which we expressly agree with: For example, the explicit possibility of voluntary withdrawal from the Union – which has not yet been done – following an appropriate national decision. Or also: The regime laid down in Article I-58, which no longer allows for unlawful arbitrary sanctions against Member States, as they have just been imposed on Austria. Or, another point: The power to trigger an early warning mechanism – a very important point that will probably prove to be relatively soon in practice. However, the competence of the European Court of Justice to examine actions which may be filed by Member States at the request of their national parliaments and/or regional parliaments with legislative power for infringement of the principle of subsidiarity. In our view, these are very important points, as are the concepts of European framework law, law and regulations, which create more clarity among the instruments. Or also that in crucial areas – and I do not entirely agree with our Foreign Minister – in terms of Treaty changes and the common foreign and security policy, the unanimity remains expressly maintained. Finally, the Charter of Civil Rights, which will be part of the Constitutional Treaty, which we see as a great advantage. All in all, ladies and gentlemen: At the end of this integration process, I have the impression that Giscard d’Estaing has also wanted to do so, should not stand the United States of Europe, but at the end of this integration process and the decision-making process on this Treaty, a new form of peaceful, equal and above all fair cooperation between the national states and their population should stand. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22369	Mrs Bauer. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22389	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Federal Minister! Mr Klubobmann Scheibner complained that the Freedom Party should have been pushed so much into the corner or became as far as European policy is concerned. – Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you have contributed a lot to this! First, they voted against accession to the European Union and then again and again strongly opposed EU enlargement. [[Abg. Großruck: That's what the Vranckky did! That's what the Socialists did!]] What would you call this: a very European-friendly policy or, in fact, an anti-European policy? If one defines the objective of foreign policy, as it was mentioned, as the support of Austrian interests abroad, one must already wonder how this objective can be achieved, how it can be implemented now. I believe that there is a lot to be done here, Mrs Federal Minister, in the short budget. Even if this is rising in 2004, it is a tight budget, and I cannot see whether there is already a start budget for the Presidency in 2006. It's not recognizable. It must also be noted that the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a structure which is essentially still from the 1960s, is characterized by these and has been far too little adapted to the new situation. It is still a structure based on bilateral tasks, the EU, the UN and all these things, although Bilateral and European Union have actually grown so much together that a new definition has to be made here. I also believe that a better division of sections, a pooling of global tasks such as UN, environmental protection and development assistance, as well as the already mentioned integration of the EU and bilateral tasks would be very urgent. I would also like to look at the issue of Central European partnerships as one of those who, as it were, live neighborhood and entered into this discussion very early. Long before Austria was a member of the European Union, we created a good climate in the border country through cooperation and regional agreements. I think that has contributed a lot to building a climate of trust in border regions, despite some of the mistones that have been brought in there. As regards the EUREGIOs – I am one of the presidents of the EUREGIO wine district – South Moravia – Western Slovakia – I believe that cohesion policy and regional development policy were a very successful policy of the European Union. However, it is necessary to ask what form these EUREGIOs should and should be recognised at European level in the future. I would ask you to answer this question of clarification. I also mean, Mrs Federal Minister – and I really would like to say this very critically – that you should also check travel diplomacy if she is always marked by the efficiency that is initially assumed. If I think you're going to fly to New York on a Friday, for example, to meet Kofi Annan, who's in Vienna on Monday, then I don't know if that's always the efficiency you can expect from your mission. I believe that it is also important to pay attention to much more long-term prospects in a resort that is extremely important for Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22426	Mr Murauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22444	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: Of course, the budgetary debate on foreign policy is also another opportunity to draw attention to the fact that foreign policy is an essential part of security policy. The Federal Minister has already pointed out this in her statement. We have already tried, in the Security and Defence Doctor of our country, to widen the security concept accordingly. In addition to the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also been involved, which was extremely valuable: It has done great things, both in terms of analysis and in terms of the external and security consequences for our country. I believe it is important to draw attention to the fact that both in our country's security and defence doctrine and in all European and international organisations, up to NATO, humanitarian action, conflict prevention, democratic support for individual countries, and social and economic security, will be the priority and will do everything possible to ensure that it does not lead to military conflict in the last episode. Ladies and gentlemen! If our Minister of State focuses on the strategic, regional partnership with the neighbouring states, extended to include the Danube region, what I am very grateful for, this is of particular importance for our security and stability. Especially the development in the Balkans, Kosovo, the individual new states and in South-East Europe must be of primary interest to us. It is therefore pleasant to know that the foreign policy, the policy of our Federal Minister, gives particular attention to this. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the action for the war-damaged children from Iraq – she was not mentioned today – was taken as a media spectacle and the accusation came that it would only serve to enable the woman minister to sit in the scene, I would like to say: It is the small actions, the small Austrian actions in the international framework, which are exemplary and actually a business card for our country! We are limited because of our small size and possibilities, but such actions leave very positive traces! – Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] One of these tracks – I would like to tell you a little more – left the HTL in Steyr. On the basis of personal connections, students of HTL Steyr have installed new computers with Director Reithuber in Kosovo, in a school in Suva Reka. All those involved, the pupils and teachers on our part, but also the students and teachers there in Kosovo, are positively affected and affected by this small action, which is perhaps just a drop on the hot stone, but at least a business card of our country: The Austrians were back and helped, where there was a need! [[I should like to congratulate the EIA and the representatives of the Free and Greens.]] They have set up in conjunction with the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Defense those drops which are known to be able to hollow the stone. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger:... Metaphernentleisung!]] The foreign policy of Austria and the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs is on the right track, namely on the way to representing and representing Austria. This has always been shown in a bravorous way. To that end, we do not need to leave the politics of the middle, Mrs Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22493	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22511	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Last Thursday, the United Nations Security Council again adopted a resolution prohibiting the International Criminal Court from investigating peacekeepers and other personnel in UN operations, provided they are members of a state which has not ratified the Statute of the Court of Justice. This can be seen from tomorrow’s issue of a daily newspaper. My colleague, too. Arbitrators have already talked about this. It turns out that the position of the United States and also of the Security Council is becoming increasingly problematic, and that the sense of the International Court of Justice is being questioned. In the meantime, according to our information, the US has concluded bilateral agreements with more than 30 States, whereby these States commit themselves not to extradite US citizens to the International Court of Justice. There are also three such countries in Europe, Albania, Romania and recently Bosnia-Herzegovina. There is already a certain reason to worry that the United States is playing its position of strength in a way that, for example, has happened in Bosnia-Herzegovina, where the recruitment of all military aid and the withdrawal of more than 2,000 US soldiers from the SFOR security force has been threatened. Similarly, the behaviour of the US was also a penalty for U.S. military members in UN peacekeeping. As early as last year, the United States insisted that Americans, even if they commit war crimes in the United Nations, do not come before the ICC, and this has to deal with a certain concern in areas where international cooperation is needed. You too, Mrs Foreign Minister, are very much in demand. Secondly, I ask you to clarify our position. It could be read that the EU obviously wants to take over the doctrine of the American government from the “preemptive trap” and for the first time has declared itself ready to support, if necessary, the use of force against States that have illicit weapons of mass destruction. While the UN should play a role in violent action, if I understood you correctly, you said that if diplomatic pressure failed, forced measures such as the capture of deliveries and the use of violence could also be considered. However, for a neutral state like Austria, this is already a point that requires a clarification, namely what is meant by the interception of deliveries or the use of violence. I think that needs some specification. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the story which Mr Murauer has also referred to, namely the aid action for eleven Iraqi children, who are being treated for medical treatment. ==References====External links== I think it is undisputed and was always our line that Austria is providing humanitarian aid. However, our wish is that this is moving in a certain proportion, that there is a reasonable relationship between the aid that is generated by it and the use of financial resources it requires. In this respect, it is quite possible to ask whether the costs of your associated travels are in a reasonable relationship with the aid provided in this context, and also whether they are, so far, € 1 million for humanitarian aid provided to Iraq, at all, in a reasonable proportion to the actual needs and amounts that the country would need. It is therefore quite interesting to relate to the extent to which your travel activity is compatible with humanitarian aid. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22565	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22584	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can start with a small segment, namely the Austrian cultural institute in New York. It's actually a worry child, we know the history, we know the costs. It was an image product. I would ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, perhaps to consider how to use it. I myself – as well as many acquaintances who have visited New York – have gained the experience that the use is not yet optimal. It's very, very little loose there, you can almost say, there's a lot of emptiness. Found entrepreneurs have given me the idea to stimulate you, but the top floors that are now used as an apartment and which are simply the most beautiful spaces in this cultural institution, perhaps in the long term for an Austrian café or such with a view of New York. I think that would certainly do a good job for the general recovery of this cultural institution, and above all one has the opportunity to consult visitors there. Otherwise, I would like to address the Convention in my brief speech. For us too, many important and controversial questions remain open. I am pleased that you, Mrs Federal Minister, are also very critical of the proposal of a elected long-term president, because we also believe that the half-yearly rotation should be maintained. We see the problem of the Commission and the members of the Commission who are entitled to vote and who are not entitled to vote, as do you. We discussed this yesterday in the main committee. I would say that the members, the Commissioners, must be equal and right to vote and should be entrusted with tasks. Everything else is, I believe, unexplainable to the public and not argumentable before it. Imagine that we have an Austrian Commissioner without the right to vote and without a portfeuille or with the right to vote and without a wallet! As always, it turns and turns, it is unexplainable and, as I believe, not in the sense of all those Austrians who voted in the referendum for the EU at the time. But I would also like to express my astonishment; Mr Niederwieser is not in the hall now. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] [[Call the SPÖ: But!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I'm a witness, he's here!]] - There he sits! Sorry! Mr Niederweiser yesterday expressed something from my point of view new, surprising and strange in the main committee. He expressed his impatience in his second speech and said that the whole process in Europe is going far too slowly, that Europe is holding on to the nation states far too much – and that the United States would never have brought it to a state in this way. [[Abg. May. Posch: He's a Tyrolean!]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser:... “World Power” I said!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Just quote, Mrs. Colleague!]] Mr Niederweiser, I must say: This may be your view or the view of the SPÖ. It is also revealing that it addresses the very path towards a central state that we do not want to go to a state rather than a state! [[Abg. Grossruck: A bloody civil war in America!]] Moreover, I do not know whether your voters will vote in the upcoming European elections – it is still time, but yet – that you want the United States of Europe. I can only say: Our way is another! We want a state union. And I am particularly pleased that strengthening the regions is clearly defined in the draft Convention. This is something that is very important, also for the creation of a European awareness of the population. It would also be worth noting that Austria has to put much more weight on border land transport than it has been. Border land transport was promised mainly to the countries of Carinthia and Styria, but this is still outstanding in my knowledge. I would like to ask you to work to achieve a comprehensive rural development there, just as in Lower Austria. This would be necessary, especially in Styria, because the border country was always disadvantaged. Since the fall of the Iron Curtain, a lot has been achieved due to the support structures, but it is still too little for the next step. One word on the principle of unanimity: From our point of view, the principle of unanimity must be adhered to on essential issues. This concerns spatial planning, security and defence policy, land use, the judicial sector, but above all – and I am expressing this here – water rights. You know how sensitive the debate about water is and that otherwise national interests are violated. I believe that national interests must be put before all other interests, and try to negotiate hard and fight for the principle of unanimity on these issues. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: For water rights, the grass is the most dangerous! ...]] In conclusion, it is important that the result then looks so positive that the Austrian population does not feel betrayed and that, above all, Austria's interests are preserved in the longer term and intensively, because we do not yet know what happens to us with the second step of enlargement. This will, as it were, become a new chapter again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22703	Mrs Muttonen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22723	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to make a few comments on foreign culture. It shows a spiral down in this area, because the budgetary provision for the Austrian business card abroad is still insufficient and insufficient. After having been shortened in recent years, the savings fund will again be set up for the years 2003 and 2004. So there are no announced increases. Mrs Foreign Minister, you have shown yourself satisfied with the budget for foreign culture in the Budget Committee. They meant that slight losses in culture were a very acceptable result in times of strained budget positions. I can't see it like you. But it's not just me. In the meantime, even your own employees, in concrete terms the head of the foreign culture department in an APA issue, call the foreign culture budget a mourning game – and I can only agree with it! In this context, the introduction to foreign culture policy in the 2002 foreign policy report is read in conjunction. It says – I quote – that: “Austria is perceived as a cultural nation worldwide and, with an active foreign culture policy, creates the conditions to use it for its international position.” – Citing. I wonder what ‘active foreign culture policy’ is meant by and how you want to achieve this by what means. Its new concept for foreign culture policy has led Austria to operate cultural forums instead of cultural institutions. The integration of the cultural institutions into the embassies with so-called synergies was justified. And this is very interesting, because if you look closely at the budget, you can see that the costs for the representative authorities have increased considerably and this increase is higher than the amount that was last spent on the cultural institutions. That's where I have to ask you: Where have these synergies remained? – Apparently well hidden or packed in the budget, this is unfortunately not to be read out. For example, the costs of cultural forums relating to administration, personnel and rent are hidden. With the resources available for foreign culture, it seems to me that it is an impossibility to achieve your ambitious goals, which you wanted to achieve with the new concept for foreign culture policy – you call it so wonderful “Foreign Cultural Policy New” – even close. Perhaps you should write clearly in the foreign policy report: We cannot and we do not want to afford this active foreign culture policy, as you call it, in contrast to the interception hunters. I can only repeat: Budgets are figures of cast policy. The height of the dosage is thus a measure of the value of the respective area. Unfortunately, I see very little development opportunities for “Foreign Cultural Policy New”. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22772	Mr Schultes. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22791	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Important steps in the enlargement of the European Union The European Union has succeeded in resolving sensitive situations with our neighbours. The enlargement agreement is signed, the interests of Austria were well represented. Congratulations on our Minister, Dr. Ferrero-Waldner, and her employees! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Europe is growing together, Europe needs to deepen. Foreign policy must be further developed, as the instruments of European foreign policy in particular still have many weaknesses. I can give you an example from my own experience: As a reconstruction aid, the European Union has opened up access to the European sugar market to the ex-Yugoslav countries. Our sugar market regulations gave them the chance to make honest money. Unfortunately, this special offer has been misused. Large quantities of sugar have been supplied to the EU with false declaration. The direct damage to Austrian beet farmers has so far been more than €3 million, it is €400 for each beet grower, for the European sugar industry probably €100 million, and only the damage caused by the abuse, not what was planned as aid. The European Anti-Fraud Office OLAF has revealed this abuse. This agreement has therefore been suspended – and hopefully is repaired in such a way that further abuse is no longer possible in the future. Another example – this time in a positive way – shows what can happen: Trade is an important opportunity for developing countries; we agree on this. I say: fair trade. With this value creation is carried into the villages as well as in less developed regions. Fair trade is a valuable concern – and we do. Recently, the fair trade organization – after coffee and bananas – presented the fair traded sugar to the public in Austria. I also participated in this presentation and, on behalf of the Austrian beet farmers, welcomed this action, because I believe that the consumer should have the choice between beet and cane sugar. We have no problem if, under fair conditions of competition, we strive with our products for the benefit of consumers – even if we compete with third-world products. We Austrian farmers agree with the farmers from these countries in the fight against the exploitation of people and the environment, and we also agree with these farmers that this would be a good aspect in the WTO. Austria has set the right priorities in development policy with a lot of expertise and good cooperation with NGOs – and will continue to do so. I wish development cooperation much success because this is a good Austrian contribution to the global peace policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22855	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22873	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make a few comments on that part of the budget, which deals with development cooperation. Before: I and my group are very pleased that there will be an increase in 2004, albeit of very low levels. I think that until we reach this 0.33 percent of the gross national income we have made for the year 2006, we will still need a lot of effort and a lot of effort and a lot of money. I would also like to have a level plan, a concrete plan as we achieve it. This would also simplify the calculation and planning very much. On the structure of the budget, I have to say quite honestly that this budget actually raises more questions for me personally than it answers questions. On the one hand, we know that much of the operational development cooperation will be transferred to an agency in 2004. There will therefore be a transfer of tasks from the Ministry to an agency. For example, if I look at the budget for public relations in the EZA area, I would point out that the budget for public relations in the Federal Ministry in 2004 will be almost twice as high as it has been in 2002 – and at the same time, the budget for NGOs managed by Komment will fall by €0.5 million. [[Abg. Silhavy: But this is interesting!]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] I don't quite understand that, I have to confess honestly: On the one hand, competences are outsourced, on the other hand more money is spent within the Ministry. I really do not want to suspect that this could have anything to do with the simultaneously held federal presidential elections. I don't mean that there should be some PR shift from EZA funds, because: A bad man who thinks evil! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Otherwise, in my view, the budget is mainly marked by inconsistency: Land support, priority funding and money for NGOs are mixed in relatively colorful ways, and from my point of view, it is not really understandable which organisation for which project gets how much money. I would very much like, as is usual in the cultural field, a report once a year that precisely separates the flow of money and makes it understandable who has got what money for. I think that would be a very democratic matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Whatever this budget is, a few are quite “white” anachronisms. For example, there are organisations that are no longer in my knowledge at all. The budget, for example, says the ÖED; it is also called the Development Assistance Information Service. – These are taught, but are no longer existent. On the other hand, other organisations that do very good work, such as the “South Wind Agency”, such as “HORIZONT 3000”, are not at all in the budget. [[Abg. Großruck: What is Horizon 3000?]] But now I know that these public funds are getting, so I also believe that something – let's say it – has been misworked. Coming to the end: Despite all the non-perceptibility, despite all the inconsistency of the budget and this sluggishness, these budget figures are almost a blow of pain. These are the very last ones of their kind, I think, because from 2005 we will hardly have any interpretation of the EZA budget. There will then be this agency, and there will be a post that will be administratively donating this agency and another post that will do it operationally. So a discussion, as we are now conducting, is, I fear, not possible anymore. All of this will escape Parliament – and I think that is a step back on democracy policy and a very sad one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22946	The next speaker is Mrs Felzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e22965	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Stability and economic consolidation of democracies in south-eastern Europe is a key objective of this government's foreign policy. The intensive pursuit of this strategy is also reflected in the budget. It can be seen that the budget, particularly with regard to the promotion of the East, and I am now addressing the CEEC and the NUS programmes, has defined an amount of € 16.4 million. This means an increase of 60 percent compared to 2002. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The enlargement of the world's largest internal market has already created no barriers to customs and trade. This enlargement round will provide Europe with a population increase of 20 percent: growing from 376 million to 450 million inhabitants, more than the population of the USA and Japan combined. This can be seen from what incredibly large market is in existence. On the other hand, this enlargement in relation to the Union's GDP means only an increase of 4 percent. In other words, the current candidate countries are mostly small countries, which, of course, also has a relative economic impact on the EU economy. Nevertheless, I would like to make the following very clear: This EU enlargement is not a concession to the East, but is in Austria's most economic interest. Austria – this can be said – has been the great winner of EU enlargement: Export figures have quadrupled since 1989. We know that external trade has changed and developed extremely dynamically. To mention Hungary in this context, for example: Austria has 3.3 billion exports, followed by the Czech Republic with 2 billion and Slovakia with 1 billion. We also know that in Austria we More than 57 000 jobs can be recorded through enlargement, and we also know that Central and Eastern Europe are the largest growth market. – As far as economic growth is concerned, we know that Hungary is likely to reach 4 percent, which is undoubtedly quite significant. Austria is an investor in all these countries and very, very successful. We not only create jobs there, but this is also reflected in Austria. The fact is: We have won so far – and, just as the budget is, we see that the strategy continues in this direction. I therefore rely on our sustainable foreign policy, especially with regard to south-eastern Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e23020	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e23040	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today, the social component of foreign policy is clearly the extent and type of aid that the rich industrialized countries provide to the poorest and poorest countries in the world. I think it is much better to help poor people than armies in the context of development aid, because if people in poor and poorest countries can live half-humane lives, they are also, I believe, worse to address terrorism. That is why it is not only our humanitarian duty, but also our security policy in our highest interest to shape Austrian development policy in this spirit. But if you look at the most recent international comparisons of development policy, it does not look as if Austria is exceptional. Austria's development cooperation is only certified as mediocrity. In the course of the debates on national defence, for example, it is repeatedly mentioned that the Austrian Federal Army is particularly actively participating in peacekeeping measures and that therefore the various expenditure on the defence of the country is justified. That's all right, too. However, if you look at the assessment of the Austrian contribution to the international peace mission by independent institutes, it must be noted that Austria can only be found under “remote” terms. Ladies and gentlemen! For a country that has pursued an active peace policy under Kreisky and has been respected worldwide, this is certainly not a glory sheet. Not least, this foreign policy mediocre is due to the far too low budget for this area of development aid. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would ask you to work to ensure that at least in the future, “development aid” approach is no longer saved, but is also increased. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e23078	The next speaker is Mr Ledolter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e23096	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This double budget, which stands for debate here, is not only an ambitious numbering, but also the basis for a very forward-looking and dynamic foreign policy. In contrast to Mr Heinzl, I cannot see that the subject of the debate would be mediocre. I also prefer an foreign policy, Mr Heinzl, which is not based on what Bruno Kreisky has shown with terrorists and others in the double pack, but rather on an external policy, as represented by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs in a very competent, very committed, very cordial and winning way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinzl and Dr. Niederwieser.]] With regard to the peace-making effect, I would just like to point out that I had the opportunity to represent the interests of the Austrian Parliament at an OSCE conference in Moldova about four weeks ago. On this occasion I could also take note of how valuable this peace-making and Europe-oriented policy is also in this area. It is simply because, perhaps more or less forgotten by the European public, a movement of autonomy has increased there in 1992 until a civil war. The lot- the solution of Transnistria and Gagausia, which is Turkishly dominated, has split this country, and the autonomy initiatives, which President Voronin is now setting, are heading in the direction that he is trying to bring the refined brothers back to a table with a federalisation of the country – an initiative whose impact will undoubtedly also be felt in our home country, which is urgently necessary to ensure the EU external border in a few years, but which will ultimately also improve and increase security in Europe and thus also in Austria. I believe that this initiative, which is very necessary in this area, is linked to the continuation of the good policy of a Foreign Minister Schüssel and the continuation of the initiative of the OSCE Presidency of 2000, a continuation of the idea of ‘reverse Europe’ and, of course, the partnership for Europe. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] – I conclude, Mr President. I very much support this policy and wish the Foreign Minister that she continues on this successful path, in the interests of the Republic, in the interests of the people of that country.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e23153	The speaking time of the Austrian People's Party is exhausted. I now have a speech by Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e23175	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! An essential controlling instrument for service companies is the evaluation of customer relationships, and it would be very interesting to have such an evaluation carried out in your ministry, which provides services for people over long distances. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Then you can get back to the cost!]] My personal evaluation and the evaluation I can make from conversations with people who communicate with me in connection with supporting assistance from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that very good work is being done. But it would be very interesting, I think, to have an agency evaluate the work, even in the sense that there is a continuous reduction in personnel. From 1999 to 2004, there are 192 planning posts, and it is always the question of how far one can go with the reduction of staff without the services being pitied. Mrs. Federal Minister! I have been asked by the Landesverband der Donauschwaben – and I am happy to follow this request here – to ask you what the state of affairs in connection with the Croatian compensation law is like. Mrs. Minister, you know that the Croatian compensation law grants Austrian citizens, who were expelled from the territory of today's Republic of Croatia as a result of the Second World War, a right to compensation for expropriated assets. These people can seek compensation if, and now comes, the right to submit is governed by a bilateral agreement. Mrs. Federal Minister! The question of the Landesverband der Donauschwaben is: When can the Donauschwaben expect such a bilateral agreement if on 28 May the Commission February of this year a letter from the office of the Austrian Federal Chancellor to the World roof association of the Danube Swabs, stating that the Croatian Prime Minister, Ivica Racan, has also stated before the press that the preparations for the necessary bilateral agreement on the Croatian compensation law are on the right track? The president of the Weltdachverband der Donauschwaben, Dipl.-Ing. On the basis of this letter from the Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel, Rudolf Reimann, and from his law firm, gave a public opinion in which it is said – I quote – that: “The Austrian negotiations with Croatia are to be presented by our compatriots” – that is, the Danube swabs – “as a positive example for their governments all over the world.” However, nothing has yet happened in this direction, and I therefore ask you – so that this will not be embarrassing for Austria – to put your finger on it and to put pressure on it accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e23211	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner, if he wants to take the floor. - He wants to, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e23240	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I shall try to follow the intentions of the President and to give a brief speech. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] We have already heard that the individual budget positions in the field of central administration and the representation authorities are well underway today, but changes and reductions have also been made on time. In the field of EZA, I am still a bit skeptical of whether the operational means a larger budget – or whether only the conversion of staff costs to this increased expenditure position in this segment will lead. Today, however, I am again concerned about discussing a positive example of Austrian foreign, technology and research policy, and perhaps, Mrs. Federal Minister, we can take additional measures in this segment of the Austrian political presentation. We know that there is an Austrian scientific attaché in the USA, which is very successful in networking the Austrian researchers, developers and other personalities in the American field and has developed a very good virtual but also real platform, which is of great benefit not only to the Austrian researchers in the USA, but also to their fellow researchers here in Austria. I think this model could be further developed together with BMVIT or with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and implemented in other markets, such as Hong Kong, China, Japan as well as Israel as some possible candidate countries for such science attachés, because I am convinced that Austrian research and technology policy is an important contribution to Austria's foreign policy presentation. In this sense, I would be pleased, Mrs Federal Minister, if in the future there could be several of these science attachés from Austria in the individual industrialized countries outside Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e23285	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e23332	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Three brief comments; the first concerns Mr Ledolter. Mr. Johann Ledoltervon of the ÖVP has found it necessary to reduce the number of terrorists to a few from this speaker's desk from Bruno Kreisky's foreign policy. [[Intervocations at SPÖ as well as calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Ledolter: Whoever had the opportunity to listen to Bruno Kreisky's speech, for example at his appearances before the United Nations on the topic of South Tyrol, or to hear about the great visions Bruno Kreisky had for the Middle East, would never speak like you! No one has ever found anyone for Bruno Kreisky's shoes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Oh, the Bartenstein!]] I am also sorry that I have obviously scared Mr Rossmann in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, with the statement that we should not think too provincially when it comes to the idea of Europe. I have mentioned, specifically, that the idea of Europe is bigger than we always see from our waiting time, in the example of the right of appeal demanded by Vice-Cancellor's Head. And I have also said that this Europe will, of course, be a federalist one, but it will not be the case that each of these small local authorities will be able to speak in all areas and claim the same rights everywhere. I understand, however, that the Freedom Party, with its partly provincial and nationalist approach to the issue of Europe, will have problems with such considerations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: You have to tell us! Take a look at the mirror!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who says that?]] Finally, to the very main reason of my word: It has a certain tradition that the budget debates of the Austrian Parliament do not pass without we also concerned ourselves with the issue of South Tyrol. However, this has not yet been done. In any event, I believe that, from our protection function for South Tyrol, we should also take advantage of this opportunity for a fundamental debate on foreign policy to make it clear that, by setting up our own Subcommittee of the Foreign Policy Committee, we are continuing to deal with the issue of South Tyrol in the Austrian Parliament, we are closely monitoring the development there – and now we are also recording that there is no progress in the autonomy movement, but that in the current political situation we must be glad that there is only a standstill and not a setback. The women and men in South Tyrol should certainly be aware that the Austrian Parliament has the theme of South Tyrol, that we have not forgotten the South Tyroleans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e23417	There are no further statements of speech on this debate, so I conclude. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00024_d7e23436	I can still say that in today's session, the self-employed have been brought in applications 155/A to 158/A. Question No 535/J to 549/J has also been received. It is my request by the honourable Member Mag. Molterer, Dr. Cap, Scheibner and Oellinger proposed to postpone the deliberations at this point. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a postponement to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. In this sense, I call the next meeting of the National Council for tomorrow, Wednesday, 18. In June, 9 a.m., with the following agenda: Budget debate: Chapter 65: Transport, innovation and technology, then Chapter 12: Education and culture, then Chapter 14: Science, also the whole financial area: Financial management, cash management, financial compensation, pensions et cetera as well as the text of the federal financial laws and plans and the second and third reading and, as far as I know, the motions for resolutions. I would remind you that a meeting of the main committee will take place tomorrow at 8.15 a.m. The sitting is closed.
