ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2254	Ladies and gentlemen! The meeting was opened. I ask you to take your seat and welcome everyone. I particularly welcome Mr Thomas Klestil, President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who, as it is tradition, attends the budget speech of the Minister of Finance. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] The official protocols of the 12th and 13ths. Meeting of 29. On April 1, 2003, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported to be Machne, Pepper and Arbitrator. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2297	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2413	I have a letter from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, which reads as follows: Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 30 June. April 2003... the Federal Minister without a portefeuille Maria Rauch-Kallat according to Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitution Act with effect from 1 April 2003 She was discharged by the Office in May 2003 and appointed as the Federal Minister for Health and Women in accordance with Article 70(1) at the same time. With the same resolution, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany appointed the State Secretary and assisted in the management and parliamentary representation of the Federal Minister without a portefeuille Maria Rauch-Kallat-Bijbeit University Professor Dr. Reinhart Waneck with effectiveness from 1st century onwards. In accordance with Article 70(1), in conjunction with Article 78(2), the Federal Constitutional Act of the Office was removed and, in accordance with Article 70(1), appointed as State Secretary in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act and attached to it for support in the management and parliamentary representation of the Federal Minister for Health and Women. Hievon, I'm honouring to make a statement. Wolfgang Schüssel’ Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2458	Before entering the agenda, MEPs Dr. Cap, colleagues, asked for urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 115/A (E) tabled at the same time by Mr Dr Josef Cap, colleagues on ‘No pension robbery for interception hunters’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 152/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2488	I would also like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on Question Time 152/AB of Question 132/J by Dr Grünewald, colleagues on the appointment of the University Councils by the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2512	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take the government documents relating to the Federal Financial Laws for the years 2003 and 2004 together with Appendices, 60 and 61 of the Supplements, at first reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2539	It is proposed that the debate on points 8 and 9 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. That is why we are going into the agenda, and I ask all the Members of this House to turn off the phones. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2564	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 157.5 minutes, Free 108 minutes and Green 117 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This proposal has been adopted unanimously. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government’s templates concerning the Federal Financial Laws for the years 2003 and 2004 together with investments
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2597	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item: Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance. I now give the floor to the Federal Minister for Finance to make this statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2621	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President of the National Council! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Governor! High house! We are at the beginning of a new legislative period, and after just over two months it is possible for Alfred Finz and me to present you with the double budget for the years 2003 and 2004. [[Abg. Oils: Really?]] In this context, I would like to thank my colleagues in the government for the very successful and very constructive budget negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! The double budget 2003 and 2004 is a future budget, it is a reform budget, and it is a relief budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With this budget, we will invest in the future of our country; we will implement reforms to ensure sustainable social systems; we will continue the administrative reform and significantly reduce the tax burden. Only that is the right way to create an economic upturn of its own strength. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] The economic environment is a major challenge for budget creation – but only in the face of wind is the stability shown. Let us take a look at some of the events that have a significant impact on the global economic development of recent years: On the security side, there is the horrendous terrorist attack of the 11th. September 2001, then the global fight against terrorism, the war in Afghanistan, then the war in Iraq, and on the economic side, there are massive losses of trust of investors and investors due to accounting scandals as in the case of Enron. [[Abg. Oillinger: ‘ Accounting scandals ’? – These are economic scandals!]] All of this, of course, has left deep traces in the world economy. High ro-help travel, dramatic cuts in stock markets and rising unemployment have insecured investors and consumers over the last two years. While monetary policy and fiscal policy are expansive in the US, there is a double deficit in the government budget and in the current account – especially in the medium term – that is to say, a problem in the medium term. Japan does not find out from deflation, Europe is struggling with its structural problems. The labour market is certainly rigid the Achilles' farces of the Old Continent. Given these developments in all the Member States of this triad, current economic growth remains well below the long-term trend. At present, there are only a few growth poles in the world economy: China, India, Thailand, i.e. “Emerging Asia”, belong to Russia and – fortunately for Austria and for the strategy of many Austrian companies – also Eastern Europe, with which we are already handling 17.5% of the total exports. Clearly – and good for Austria – these countries will also have an above average growth in the coming years. Meanwhile, the rapid end of the war in Iraq has led to significantly lower oil prices and also some optimism on the stock exchanges. Only the fall in oil prices by around 10 US dollars – which is also seen in the falling fuel prices in Austria – should make the world economy grow faster this year by half a percentage point. Also, the international economic downturn has taken almost three years, which is an unusually long period of economic downturn. That is to say, the opportunities for a rapid upturn should therefore rise. Nevertheless, one must say that uncertainty remains great about the further development of the world economy, the world economic framework is still fragile. We also do not live in Austria on a “island of the Blessed” – I think that is known to all of us. Nevertheless, we must say: Too much pessimism would be inappropriate because Austria has developed well in recent years. We can therefore look to the future with confidence and realistic optimism. But if we want to raise this potential for an upsurge – and thus for more prosperity, for more jobs – then commonness is now needed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Economics – we need to know – is above all a question of psychology. And that is why we should all call on the representatives of the trade union in this House: Stop your strikes against the Federal Government! Don't damage the good economic basis we've worked out! It's irresponsible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Frequent!]] It is irresponsible to harm the entrepreneurs and workers of our country in a difficult situation. [[Abg. Oillinger: Please take care of your responsibility!]] Return – this is my appeal – to the dialogue and to the negotiating table! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] High house! If the United States, if Japan, when Europe is in a downturn, of course Austria is not spared either. Since the last high-economy year 2000, domestic economic growth has developed significantly weaker, as well as expected by the economic researchers. The timing of the forecast upturn has repeatedly slowed down, which has burdened the situation on the labour market and made it difficult to meet the budget targets. Nevertheless – and I would like to stress this – the Federal Government has always used this small national margin, which remains in a globalised world, to provide reasonable impetus and incentives, not through large debt-financed expenditure programmes, but through structurally sound economic programmes. [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens: What?]] At the beginning of the economic downturn, we adopted the first economic package in autumn 2001. In doing so, we have set priorities for research and development, facilitated training and higher-qualification measures and set up businesses. A year later, with the implementation of the second economic package, we gave further growth and employment impulses for youth employment and investment. Both economic packages – and I would like to stress this – will relieve the economy of more than €500 million a year in the following years and are therefore a very important boost to the economy. Finally, after the flood disaster last year, it was also very important to set up an aid and reconstruction programme with a volume of over € 1 billion, quickly and unbureaucratically. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the many Austrians, the aid organizations for their great, yes, I believe, for their sensational willingness to donate for the victims of the flood disaster. I would like to thank the countries and communities for their good cooperation in the implementation of these aid programmes. We have so far paid more than € 210 million in grants. We were able to help more than 30,000 families together. You can see: We're together in an emergency! The initiative was supported by all the political groups in the House. That's Austria! That is living solidarity! We should do the same on other issues! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] High house! Despite these difficult international conditions and in view of the fact that we have started and reversed the right reforms, I note that Austria with 4.1 percent the lowest unemployment rate..., the third lowest employment rate in the European Union – this was a nice promise before; perhaps we are still the lowest – and has a record employment rate of last 3 155 000 employees on average in 2002, with a per capita social product of 26 700 € exceeding the EU average by about 15 percent, both in 2002 and 2003 growth faster than the euro zone, growth faster than, for example, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Switzerland, with 1.7 percent the third lowest inflation rate in the European Union, which has achieved the export performance of our companies at 113 billion euros in the previous year, the export growth of 4.1 percent was significantly higher than the value of the euro area of only 2.4 percent, the trade balance for the first time since the second Republic achieved a surplus of 3.5 billion euros per year. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Eder: That's probably not true at all!]] [[Abg. Eder: You can't do that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is an excellent current account at a difficult economic time, and I would like to thank the skilled employees, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs very much and congratulate them on these outstanding achievements. [[Abg. Oillinger: Company pleas!]] It doesn't make us like that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The domestic economic researchers are currently assuming that economic growth remains weak in the first half of 2003. However, for the second half of the year, a slight economic upturn is expected, which should then accelerate significantly in 2004. [[Abg. Eder: You told me that two years ago!]] When creating this double budget in 2003 and 2004, we assume that, according to the forecast of the Austrian Institute of Economic Research, Austria will achieve a growth of 1.1 percent real and 2.4 percent nominal and next year, 2004, a significantly higher growth of 1.7 percent real and 3.5 percent nominal. It's carefully planned. The economic forecasts of the Institute for Higher Studies, the International Monetary Fund and the OECD are significantly higher, particularly for 2004. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians know that only a powerful economy can create and maintain prosperity and work. This means that we are orienting our economic policy to the principles of economic freedom, performance, competition, sustainability, and, of course, social responsibility. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Only a strong economy, ladies and gentlemen, ensures social cohesion in the long term, because, to speak to Friedrich August von Hayek, “it is a fundamental illusion of socialism that poverty can be eliminated by redistribution of existing prosperity”. Those who want to fight poverty effectively – and we want to do so – must free our businesses from shackles and burdens, they must create a climate in which performance is worthwhile for the individual. We therefore want less state influence and more market. We want less bureaucracy and more freedom for the individual. We want fewer unemployed and more jobs. We want sustainable tax relief – and thus more opportunities for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: More and more unemployed!]] Since our policy is based on liberal and social principles and reforms are rapidly being implemented, the attractiveness of the Austrian site has improved significantly in recent years. In 1999, Austria was still on the 18th place in the World Competitiveness Scoreboard. In the meantime, we are in place 13, so we are the thirteenth most competitive economic location in the world. In 1999 we were in the institutional investor position 16, now we take 9th place. In the ranking of the EU indicators, we already prove the considerable 5. It's all right. We know what we want – and that pays off for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You see, we've achieved a lot! Austria is well equipped, but we want more. [[Call the SPÖ!]] - I'll be there later. – The Federal Government has recently launched an offensive so that Austria can rise among the three best locations in Europe. So we have a very clear goal: We want to become top 3 economic and labour locations in Europe, because we know that site benefits bring more investment. Investments are jobs, jobs are incomes, and income means security and life opportunities for Austrians. And that's what we want! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] High house! A cornerstone of Austrian economic policy is our stability-oriented budget policy – a sound budgetary policy that has set itself a very ambitious goal with the zero deficit, with the balanced budget over the economic cycle. We wanted to make this understandable and verifiable for the people. In particular, we have significantly reduced government expenditure and, despite difficult economic situation, for the first time for more than 30 years reached the zero deficit in 2001. This policy is necessary, it is successful and we will continue it in the next few years! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have often been accused of fiscal consolidation, that the zero deficit has been achieved mainly through higher revenue. It is therefore my concern to present what it really looks like, ladies and gentlemen. Let's compare the year 1999 and the year 2002: When I took office as Minister of Finance in February 2000, I had to take over a general government deficit of 2.3 percent from 1999, at which time the tax rate was 44.4 percent of the gross domestic product. – Despite weak economic development, we achieved a deficit of 0.6 percent last year, i.e. 2002, – an internationally outstanding value. At the same time, the tax rate has increased to 44.6%, i.e. only slightly. That is, we have reduced the deficit from 2.3 to 0.6 percent, consolidated by 1.7 percent of the gross domestic product. Only 0.2 percent of these are due to a rising tax rate, 1.5 percent of which, ladies and gentlemen, were on the expenditure side consolidated – and thus the majority of the deficit improvement is expenditure-side consolidation. And we will continue this path that we have sought from the very beginning! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Contrary to the examples of other countries – also contrary to the opposition’s proposals – this federal government has never left its course of stability and reform-oriented economic policy. This transparent and courageous policy has brought us economic political recognition: at the International Monetary Fund, at OECD, at the Commission of the European Union, at international rating agencies, in the financial markets, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, in the Austrian population. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Austrians have clearly recognized that this serious and stability-oriented financial policy is important for our country, because they know that solid state finances are the necessary prerequisite for a sustainable and socially just economic policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Every household, every company has a budget limitation. No one can spend more money in the long run than he takes – of course this also applies to the Republic of Austria. [[Abg. O God, that's what's coming!]] Persistent deficits, ladies and gentlemen – which has always been shown – lead to higher public debt. Higher public debt leads to higher interest rates on this public debt – and we all need to finance these interest rates through higher taxes and taxes. This also leads to less investment, slower structural change, lower international competitiveness and, ultimately, lower economic growth in rising unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: That's why he's making debts!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Your policy creates unemployed!]] This is the model of the red-green coalition in Germany – and exactly the opposite is our goal! We want more investment, more growth, more employment. Therefore, a budget balanced by the cycle, the zero deficit, is not a numerical dogma, but a sound economic policy concept. With the double budget presented today, we will continue this path with all the consequence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] High house! The draft estimate for the Federal Government 2003 and 2004 is €57.5 billion for 2003 and €59.1 billion for 2004, €61.5 billion for 2003 and €62.6 billion for 2004. This year, the Maastricht deficit will amount to €3.95 billion and 1.8% of gross domestic product and €3.28 billion or 1.4% of gross domestic product. In the sense of the 2003 Internal Stability Pact, in terms of countries, cities and municipalities, we assume delivery surpluses of 0.5 percent and 0.7% respectively in 2004 respectively. The financial and economic deficit, which is relevant to financial and economic policy, is therefore 1.3 percent this year and already in 2004 very good and internationally over 0.7% of the gross domestic product. [[Abg. Eder: This shall be paid to the nations and communities.]] At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that in a weaker economic phase, as we currently have in Austria, deficits in the government budget are quite useful, because they are primarily due to higher expenditure for the increasing number of unemployed and lower levels of taxation on farms. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Abg. May. Worm: A new bill!]] These deficits temporarily stabilise consumption and investment demand without them – and that is important to us! – in the long term lead to an increase in public debt. It is crucial, however, that deficits in poor economic conditions follow in good times, in high-economic times. That is exactly the difference, ladies and gentlemen, between the deficit policy of the last 30 years and the new stability-oriented financial policy that we have achieved – and we will continue! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Austria, with its fiscal policy, now also maintains every international comparison. As the final light of the European Union, we started in 2000 – and we are already significantly better than the EU average with a general government deficit of 1.3 percent for 2003. The EU average is 2.3 percent in 2003. In 2004, ladies and gentlemen, Austria will have 0.7 percent general government deficit. The average of the European Union is 2.2%. Austria will be the sixth best country in 2004 with regard to financial policy in the European Union. Germany, France, Portugal and probably Italy have an excessive deficit this year, i.e. one of over 3 per cent and thus violate the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. In the first three countries mentioned, despite high deficits, unemployment rates are much higher and higher than in Austria. That means you make massive debts, you spend a lot of money discreetly, anyway: Unemployment rates are much higher, growth weaker than in Austria. Overall, these three countries, which I have just mentioned, increase their debt by more than €100 billion in 2003 alone. It is also recognised that it was good that we had reached a turning point in financial policy in time. A reliable way – and everyone knows what it is about, and: It pays off for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] High house! A closer look at the expenditure side of the budgets presented for 2003 and 2004 shows that it reflects two priorities of this federal government. First: We want to reduce passive expenditure categories, i.e. administrative costs, subsidies, interest payments. Secondly, We want to increase future-oriented expenditure, such as for training, research, development, higher qualification, technology orientation, infrastructure, education, of course. [[Abg. Oils: Education?- Oh, my God!]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ and the Greens]] Behind that, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the right priorities in the use of public funds are crucial for improving the long-term growth opportunities of our country. Austria needs bright heads – as Mr. Federal Chancellor emphasized in his government statement. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The transition from the hierarchicalally structured industry to the network-structured information society creates completely changed demands on the skills patterns of our society. The strengthening of education and training, the strengthening of science and research is therefore a real concern for us. Their quantity, but much more so in their quality, is decided by all of our economic prosperity, but also by individual fates and life patterns. We must therefore pursue a policy that constantly improves the supply of education and training. Freedom and self-reliance, ladies and gentlemen, mean that people must take advantage of these opportunities themselves. Our task, on the other hand, is to make these opportunities possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is precisely where we are setting very clear priorities with the two budgets in place: We foresee more than €8.2 billion for education and science for the 2003 Federal estimates; in 2004 these expenditures will even increase to over €9 billion. – In 1999 this was still quite modest €7.5 billion. Federal Minister Gehrer has achieved that the expenditure for universities and scientific institutions is almost doubled between 1999 and 2004. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Through a budget for universities already set by law for 2004 to 2006, there is also something that has not yet been done, namely medium-term planning security – an important progress for universities. For the next two years, we will increase the expenditure for the technical colleges – I would like to stress this in particular – to € 107 million. This is more than a doubling of the funds we use for the vocational colleges compared to 1999. Never has there been a financial contribution to education and science as much as in these two budgets. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Research and development, stimulating innovation, is crucial to our country's growth. That is why we are of course continuing our research and development offensive programme, which we started in the last legislative period, with additional expenditure from €600 million in 2004 to 2006. The Federal Government’s research-effective expenditure will increase to €1 560 million in 2004. Compared to 1999, this is a very significant increase by 24 percent. For the first time, we make spending on future broadband technologies and also study contributions for professionals tax deductible. All these are important impulses. You can be sure: We will do everything we can to achieve our truly ambitious goal of increasing the research rate to 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product. We will be our Minister of Science Liesl Gehrer, we will be our Research Minister Hubert Gorbach, we will support our Minister of Economic Affairs Martin Bartenstein so that this path becomes possible. These are investments in the future of our country, for more growth, for more innovation, for more employment in Austria – our common goals, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We also need the extension of road and rail – especially in the background of the upcoming east expansion. The funds for the high-level road network were therefore increased from € 658 million in 1999 to € 1 194 million in 2003 and € 1 319 million, i.e. very significant, next year. Of course we also invest in the rail: Based on less than €900 million in 1999, we will be providing more than €1.1 billion each year next year. Never before has so much been done in the field of infrastructure! These are investments in the future of our country, for more growth, for more employment, for better quality of life and for better environmental conditions in Austria. There are, of course, other priorities which we set in this federal budget, which are a very special concern for the Federal Government and certainly also for the High House. The Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Social Affairs will spend significantly more on disabled people in Austria in the year of disabled people with €72 million than in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In addition, the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Social Affairs has set up an important initiative by increasing the care allowance for particularly care-needed persons by €10 million this year. Ladies and gentlemen! We will spend €4.8 billion on family policy this year. Childcare money is a great success. The family-political services are the Federal Chancellor, are the Vice Chancellor, are Secretary of State Haubner, yes to all of us an important concern. Austria will therefore remain Europe's most family-friendly country in the future. We're proud of it. Although the children represent only 20 percent of the population, they represent 100 percent of the future of our country. It is the right way to invest in families and children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We will significantly raise expenditure on development cooperation – a genuine concern of Foreign Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner – and in Austria we will achieve for the first time the internationally important objective of 0.33 percent of gross domestic product in this legislative period. We are increasing our budget for sport, which is a particular concern of State Secretary Karl Schweitzer. We have the European Football Championship. We fight together, the Federal Chancellor and the entire Federal Government, for the presentation of Olympic Games in Austria. In the cultural field, in the art sector, Franz Morak is setting up a film promotion initiative in Austria, an important digitalization offensive in the broadcasting sector. Agriculture: Sepp Pröll has fully implemented the 3-billion-€ package for agriculture provided for in the government programme. This is important in order to support the land-based small-scale agriculture in Austria and actually maintain the high quality of its products. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At Sepp Pröll I stop, at Sepp Pröll I start: Our Environment Minister will set very important signals and initiatives in the years 2004-2006, including in terms of achieving the Kyoto target. The budget will be increased by €30 million in 2004, €60 million in 2005 and €90 million in 2006. You see, environmental protection, ecology are a major concern for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are numbers that can be seen. Austria is a safe country. We're proud of it. That's how it's supposed to stay. We are therefore spending around €4.4 billion on internal and external security and on justice. Our security minister Ernst Strasser, Günther Platter and Dieter Böhmdorfer have an extremely important task, especially in an open country where the export of goods, in which tourism plays an important role in foreign direct investment, is to invest in safety. We have important reform projects in these areas. A wake-up body, more efficiency, more safety for the population will be the result. On this occasion I would also like to say: We are aware that the security of our citizens and our country cannot end a few meters above the ground. We will therefore also carry out the purchase of airspace surveillance aircraft provided for in the Government Convention. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Warplanes, Minister!]] I can assure you that we will negotiate hard and well with our contracting partners, and the resulting counter-businesses will, in turn, bring important impetus for research and development and will send very important signals for employment for the industry, for the small and medium-sized enterprises of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] High house! The objective of our economic policy is full employment, because full employment is the best means of achieving the best possible social cohesion. But one should of course be aware that not politics, but only a functioning economy can create jobs in the long run. Austria's labour market data are excellent. The unemployment rate is the third lowest in the European Union. Youth unemployment is significantly lower than in the rest of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== May also brought the number of employees of April. In April, we had 3 166,345 employees in Austria – compared to the previous year, an increase of 38,000 employees, an absolute record in the history of the Second Republic as far as people employed are concerned. [[Abg. May. Worm: Poor workers!]] We have been able to reduce unemployment easily. These are figures to which I can only congratulate Minister of Labour Martin Bartenstein very warmly, also internationally excellent values of employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are fully aware of this responsibility for the labour market, and we are therefore committed at several levels of action: to force active labour market policies, to increase the efficiency of employment placement, to create customer-friendly structures in labour market policy, to promote employment-oriented, needs-oriented qualification and to promote a qualification campaign for older workers. This year, we invest more than €4 billion in important labour market policies. Funding for active labour market policies will be increased to € 783 million this year. This is an absolute peak in the last ten years. This is more than 25 percent in addition to the year 1999. [[Abg. May. Worm: Hundreds of thousands of unemployed!]] Through a reform of the labour market service, we will ensure that we can communicate unemployed even better and faster. No one who is unemployed is expected to wait on average for a new job longer than 90 days. Over 50 years old and under 25 years old, we give a right to further training if within three months no job placement succeeds because we know, ladies and gentlemen, that the qualification of unemployed is the key to reducing unemployment. We can be optimistic. The April numbers show us that we will succeed in the trend change on the labour market, perhaps already successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] High house! Despite a clear focus on education, research, infrastructure, active labour market policy, family and safety, the total expenditure of the Federal Budget 2003 will decrease by 0.6 percent at €61.5 billion compared with the previous year and will increase by only 1.8 percent next year, much less than the growth of nominal gross domestic product. The ratio of government expenditure to gross domestic product therefore falls from 28.5 percent in 2002 to 27.7 percent in 2003 and to 27.2 percent in 2004. Ladies and gentlemen! This proves: We continue this path of expenditure consolidation. We are strengthening the quality of public finances, and we are at the same time opening up scope for the future, scopes for discharge, which are just as important to us. High house! The Austrians have a right to efficient and modern public services. They are not only the sovereign of this state, they are also his clientele. That is why we have to ask ourselves again and again the very central question: Is the current supply of services actually worth the money paid by the citizen for it? Does the citizen have a fair equivalent for his taxes and taxes? – And to be honest, I think no! We need to achieve fundamental improvements in the same way as in the last legislative period in these four years. Especially in this area, we can now take the unique opportunity – and that is why I am looking for you – of a cross-party, a joint reform coalition. That is why we have set up the Austrian Convention – President Khol, President Fischer, President Prinzhorn, President of Fierce – with the aim of reviewing the building of the authorities and defining a new division of tasks between the European Union and the Federal Government, countries and communities in a constitutional reform. Existing tasks are to be questioned critically, expensive double-tracks are to be abolished, processes simplified and accelerated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The tasks and expenditure of the administration must be re-examined and radically re-evaluated. For this legislative period, the Federal Government has therefore undertaken, inter alia, to abolish the indirect federal administration, to further expand the district authorities as central service-oriented contact points for the population, to strictly implement the two-stage transfer of bodies, to shorten procedures, to strengthen the country's fiscal sovereignty and to reduce 10 000 planning points at the federal government level. I am optimistic and convinced that, with comparable efforts as in the Federal Government, significant savings potential can be achieved by 2006. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it must be a great concern for us to reform the Austrian Federal Railways fundamentally. The motto must be: Less strike, more efficiency and less tax money! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We will transform the management state of old into a modern service company. Ladies and gentlemen! Get out of here with the bacon! – This is our goal in this legislative period. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We only want to save €3.2 billion in the Federal Administration. I think that is also our commitment, ladies and gentlemen: Get out of here with the bacon! Save €3.2 billion. We will be able to relieve taxpayers and free the entrepreneurial forces. High house! One important issue: Austria has one of the best state pension systems, one of the best pension systems in the world, but also one of the most expensive pension systems in the world. Our pension system, ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e3223	I interrupt the sitting and call on Members after they have made their demonstrations to clear the transparency in accordance with our practice. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e3253	I will resume the interrupted session and ask that the banderoles be rolled in in accordance with our constant practice. [[The Transparent will be shipped.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Grasser.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e3286	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. You have given me a keyword with the reference to the state pension system. Austria – and we are proud of it – has one of the best state pension systems in the world, but also one of the most expensive. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Our pension system is currently costing about €32 billion. That is almost 15 percent of the gross domestic product. This means that pension expenditure in Austria is by far the highest throughout the European Union. Average pension expenditure in the Union amounts to 10.4 percent of the gross domestic product in question, just under 15 percent in Austria. Austria now has the oldest students and the youngest pensioners, and that should give us some thought. I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that is important to us: We also want to guarantee the first pillar of state pension provision for the future. Since this is serious, we also need to ensure their financial viability. A brochure from the Vorarlberg Chamber of Workers shows that we would have to increase contributions by 53 percent within the next 40 years – the Chamber of Labour – without a pension reform, which would have to reduce pensions by 45 percent or increase the retirement age by ten years. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not want to go this way, of course we will not take this measure, but precisely that is why a responsible federal government now needs to implement a large, basic pension reform. There's no alternative. We have to act now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to highlight what we are actually talking about. Without basic pension reform, the pension allowance from the budget of all our tax money alone would increase by €3.2 billion over the insurance contributions of workers and employers in this legislative period. To the €32 billion that are already spent, €3.2 billion in addition! [[Abg. May. Worm: Shame!]] What we are doing with our pension reform now is nothing but preventing this additional money, which would be necessary only in this legislative period – in other words, €3.2 billion – to be spent. We do nothing but weaken expenditure growth and not add €3.2 billion to it, but “only” – under quotations – € 2.6 billion above. [[Abg. Oils: That's a shame! That's all wrong!]] That is, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about a reduction, but about a weakening of the additional expenditure, and we are talking about 600 million € less additional expenditure in a period with total expenditure of 32 billion €. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] We talk about 2% of total pension expenses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm telling you honestly: We are also concerned with the credibility of politics. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Too often people have abused the trust of the population on this sensitive issue. It's about maintaining the generation contract. It is a fair distribution of the loads between generations. Just as grandparents and parents always want the best for their children and grandchildren, so do we for the young generation. We must not exaggerate the young people of today. Why should they stand straight for the high debts left behind and for our pensions? Either debt or pensions, but not both. We must end this policy of undiscovered checks on the future and the burden of the next generations. The generation contract must be secured and restored. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Pension Reform Commission, which also includes the social partners, where both the trade union and the Chamber of Commerce were involved in many meetings, has been involved for three years. It has essentially also reached agreement on both the need and the main cornerstones of the pension reform. The main agreement was reached on the gradual increase in the early retirement age to 65 years in men, to 60 years in women, on the gradual introduction of a life-long calculation period of 40 years, on the principle that 45 years of insurance and contribution are to guarantee a net replacement rate of 80 percent of the total living income for the pension, and on an improved billing of child rearing periods. Of course, the question is also very important for our political debate in this context: In what period, with what transitional periods, with what concrete steps do we come to this objective? Above all: What steps can people take? With our decision in the Council of Ministers, we have provided for a 25-year transitional period for the extension of the calculation period, a cover-up of the possible conversion losses of 3.5 percent by 2007, with 7 percent by 2015 and with 10 percent beyond, a ten-year transitional period for the expiry of early pensions, a cover for the deductions, a three-year transitional period to receive 80 percent pension with 45 instead of 40 years of contributions, as was the case in Austria for 50 years. We have also achieved consensus on the continuation of the “hackler regulation” and the creation of a new permanent right for particularly difficult working groups; a new permanent right for difficult working groups. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is – I am really convinced – a reasonable, a fair, a highly socially responsible concept. The evidence of this social competence of the Federal Government is also that we do not intervene in existing pensions. None of the more than 2 million current pensioners have anything to fear, regardless of whether he was employees, workers, farmers, traders or officials, except for the small pension insurance contribution of 1 percent, we guarantee these pensions. This is our understanding of social justice: no intervention in existing pensions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The equal treatment of ASVG insured persons and officials must of course be ensured. A good example of policy in the field of political pensions is essential. There must be no improvement in the future, in whatever form. In a second step, the Federal Government – and we ask for it – will involve the social partners, with the involvement of the countries, with the involvement of the Pension Insurance Reform Commission to Parliament until 1. Next year, a budget-neutral draft for a uniform pension right will be introduced and implemented for all. [[Abg. Scheibner: (on the ranks of the SPÖ) Then it will be quieter over there.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very important structural reform! No one has managed to present a uniform pension right for all over 50 years. We will implement it: a pension right for all, because it brings more justice, more fairness to our people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! Next challenge: Health system. Of course, we also want to maintain and further improve our good and proven health system. People are getting older, medical progress is increasing, treatments are getting better, but also more expensive. At present, the sustainable financial viability of health insurance is certainly a major challenge. The main association of social security funds has announced to us that by 2006 a deficit of just under € 1 billion would be created if one continued as before. We know that health insurance has been held in self-government for decades, under the responsibility of the social partners in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We have made our contribution by empowering social security institutions to withdraw from all insured persons a socially-designed self-retention by means of the budget accompanying laws. Now the insurance companies are on the train, now the social partners are on the train. We also need, of course, to increase efficiency and efficiency. Only in this way will it be possible to continue ensuring high-quality medical care for all citizens regardless of income. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Our Minister of Health Maria Rauch-Kallathat and her State Secretary set important initiatives. The ambulance fee is abolished by these budget accompanying laws, the health certificate fee is abolished with the socially just self-retaining. [[Abg. Eder: Who introduced all of this? – That was you, Minister!]] I am very confident that it will work together to ensure the high quality of our health system and ensure sustainable financial viability. Ladies and gentlemen! Trust is extremely important in social, economic, political with one another. Trust is acquired by acting when there is a need for action, and by holding fast to the goals set – sometimes also against resistance. The Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor have repeatedly invited the social partners and the opposition to participate in the important reforms of our social systems. We all know that political decisions must be taken in Parliament. There is in a democracy the place where you should get involved, and not on the street. [[Abg. Oils: You have a road phobia!]] This is also a good tradition in Austria, and we wish nothing more than that this tradition can continue in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Just because the Federal Government is a real concern for social peace, I would like to stress that we will not give in to the pressure of the road and, secondly, I have absolutely no understanding of yesterday's political strikes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: You have a road phobia!]] This strike against the Austrian Federal Government has seriously damaged Austria. With the strike, the union itself threatens jobs and creates additional uncertainty in an economically difficult situation. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yesterday alone, the strike caused losses in domestic value added of an estimated €100 million. With these strikes, the trade union does not meet its real goal either. The trade union wants to meet the Federal Government, but it meets Austrian companies, it meets Austrian employees, it also meets poorer people who depend on public transport. On this occasion I would like to quote a former president of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. In an interview in the “Small Newspaper” on Sunday, President Franz Olah said something very important to me, a president of the Trade Union Confederation, who did very important things in the most difficult times for Austria: "Streiks may be in a democracy, but they do not solve the problem and the problem is: too few children, too few payers, too many people. Then the high life expectancy.” The question posed by the “Small Newspaper ” was: “Who can do what for it?” Franz Olah says: “The original sin was committed in the 80s and 90s when the politicians opened the locks and wanted to resolve the crisis of the nationalists by sending masses to early retirement. A fool! Then the cowardice of not telling people the truth that the barrel is over. At that time you could have corrected.” [[Abg. Parnigoni: Forced retirement!]] And then also a crucial question of the “Small Newspaper”: “How would you have acted as ÖGB President?” Franz Olah says: “I would have tried not to get that far. You can’t increase pensions by strike.” And then Olah closes and says: “The correction of political power cannot take place through the street, that would be analogy to the 50s.” Ladies and gentlemen! A great Austrian, who gives great insight and a great understanding of the problems of our time. That is why I would like to appeal again to the representatives of the trade unions in the interests of Austria, in the interests of our place of work and business: Stop these strikes against the Federal Government! Work with you! Return to the negotiating table! We'll give you both hands to dialogue! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Finish your speech, then we'll be better again!]] High house! Dynamic companies without reasonable framework conditions are like fishing without water. However, an economy without dynamic entrepreneurs is like a water without fish, it is lifeless and the slow devastation is abandoned. Being a businessman, being independent, is a culture of its own! Entrepreneurship is always acting under uncertainty. You're consciously taking risks. Many decisions are made, of which one does not know for sure how they will affect in the next few months and years. Only a society that is still willing to take risks can also take the growth path up. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's so banal!]] There is an unbounded optimism behind that for the future. It is behind the attitude to understand change and change as an opportunity. Change means, ladies and gentlemen, being willing to question the status quo means questioning products or processes with which one has been living well for years; that is, giving up old, proven and risking new, uncertain ones, means viewing change as a living opportunity and not as a threat. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] I'm saying this because I'm deeply convinced of it: In our country, we need more entrepreneurial, so-called opportunity-seeking culture: Easter enlargement as an opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, tax reductions as an opportunity for a large SME offensive, competition as an opportunity for new products and business areas, a flexible labour market as an opportunity for additional employment and a pension reform as an opportunity for the next generation. [[Abg. Oillinger:... to change the pension reform!]] Entrepreneurship is inseparably linked to competition! Competition is nothing but a discovery process for better and more innovative solutions! [[Abg. Parnigoni: The government of Schüssel – a chance for Austria!]] Thanks to this constant competition, entrepreneurs secure the innovative power of their country. Through this competition and through innovation, they create jobs with an attractive wage level and thus also ensure the purchasing power of our people. We need this innovative entrepreneurship. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we want to promote this attitude, and we will promote it at schools, colleges and universities. Our policy stands for this culture: Change as an opportunity, opportunities that individuals can take, opportunities that policy must allow. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! I think Austria can be proud of its companies! I think it is known to all of us that small and medium-sized enterprises represent the backbone of the Austrian economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] They account for 99.5% of the production and service sector's enterprises. It is the small and medium-sized enterprises that – which is very important – secure 1.5 million jobs in our country. They generate 60 percent of the value added and a large part of the income tax revenue. Our industrial companies are the suppliers of export and direct investment abroad. Austria already generates 53 percent of its social product from exports. One million jobs depend directly, another million indirectly on export. Export promotion is therefore of particular importance in the context of site policy. With all due consequence, we want to continue this path successfully, especially for a small open economy. The Republic's export-promotion liability is currently €48 billion. In the 2003/04 budgets, we have spent €25 million each on another export offensive, which Martin Bartenstein will implement together with the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. In this way we can secure jobs in a sustainable way, ladies and gentlemen! These achievements in exports also have much to do with the immediate enlargement of the European Union. It was always the very clear strategy of this Federal Government to establish Austria as a bridgehead to the Central and Eastern European candidate countries. Austrian entrepreneurs have used this bridge, and it has paid off. We are already benefiting from higher exports, more direct investment, more employment and more growth. Beyond these economic advantages for both sides, enlargement of the Union for the continent is simply a historic moment! Our country is moving from a peripheral position in Europe to the centre of Europe. It is simply a visionary concept with an immense power of a united, peaceful Europe. This concept will be a reality; I think these are many good reasons to welcome the new Member States with great enthusiasm in the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We've always said the state is a bad businessman. This has shown the history of the nationalized industry in Austria. We have therefore implemented a very good, very ambitious and ambitious privatisation programme in the last legislative period. [[Abg. Dobnigg: Get down!]] When I took office in 2000, ÖIAG's debt amounted to more than €6 billion. The resulting interest rates could not be fully borne by the ÖIAG. We therefore had to raise taxes on the interest payments made by ÖIAG from the budget in addition to money for the operation of the interest service. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the ÖIAG is able to distribute dividends to the budget in addition to the operation of the interest service: at least €200 million this year and € 100 million in 2004. We have been rehabilitating ÖIAG, ladies and gentlemen. This is a successful privatisation policy, from which not only the owner, not only the companies themselves, but also the employees of these companies and also the many Austrian small shareholders benefit. We are continuing this policy. In turn, we have an ambitious privatisation programme for this period. The targets are clear. We will privatize in the Austrian interest. [[Abg. Eder: In your interest!]] The company's headquarters and research institutions will remain in Austria, the capital market will be strengthened and we will be able to disband ÖIAG towards the end of this legislative period, thus creating a visible sign for the end of the era of the nationalized industry in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! With 44.6 percent of the gross domestic product, the tax and tax burden on Austrian companies and employees is far too high! We need to change that! High taxes are the sign of a welfare state of old embossing, but we want to increase people's power over money drawn up over it again. We want to bring the forced happiness of public goods back to what is necessary in a modern and solidaric society. [[Abg. Brosz: Reduce forced happiness with pensions!]] That's why taxes are lowering, giving freedom! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: No forced happiness!]] High taxes, ladies and gentlemen, lead to location disadvantages in a globalised world. [[Abg. Ollinger: This is not a neoliberal programme!]] Companies invest where the cost burden is low. Of course, taxes are part of the cost. Highly qualified mobile workers are looking for employment where their benefits and earnings are not affected by high border rates. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's quite banal!]] In the tax competition, the rapids and goods also prevail over the slow and unconcealed. Our motto is therefore: Performance must be rewarded again, we must open up new perspectives for people, give new opportunities. We have to send signals, ladies and gentlemen: It pays off to invest in Austria! Use and performance pay off. People need to know what they're working for. There must be greater incentives! [[Abg. Oils: The citizen should listen to this!]] We must create a new and fair distribution of taxes and income. There must be more left to people in their wallets. That is our goal for this legislative period! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] If we want to achieve this, ladies and gentlemen, then there needs to be a system change, then it is not about small cosmetic interventions in an existing system, but then a big throw is necessary! It is about a medium-term conception of large, sustainable, but also manageable discharge. It is not about the continuation of the old interplay – I would like to stress that! –: today’s savings package, tomorrow’s tax reform and the day after tomorrow a savings package. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that was your policy – you can take it with you. People must be able to rely on it, they must be able to rely on the fact that we will achieve this great discharge in a number of steps, step by step as well! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This discharge, ladies and gentlemen, is extremely important for the future of our country. It will improve Austria's location attractiveness for investment, it will reduce the cost of labour, it will provide environmentally friendly incentives, it will improve the equity base of businesses, it will simplify the tax system, and it will increase our growth potential. [[Abg. May. Worm: fairy tale heinzi!]] We will therefore realize no more and no less than the greatest discharge in the history of the Second Republic! Ladies and gentlemen! We reduce taxes and taxes by €3 billion in two steps, and we will continue this path until we reach a 40 percent tax rate of gross domestic product in 2010. In this legislative period, we want to give an average of €1,000 per year to every household in Austria, and we will maintain our policy of the balanced budget over the economic cycle. This is a very ambitious way. But we'll realize him! We confess to that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is important to us, ladies and gentlemen, that this biggest tax reform in the history of the Second Republic is not implemented sometime in the future, but we are now starting with it. The first step is already part of our budget accompanying laws and becomes with 1. In January 2004 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the We are particularly concerned about the reduction of small and medium-sized incomes. Taxable persons with a gross annual income of up to €14 500 will in future no longer have to pay taxes in Austria. This will allow more than 200 000 Austrians, who are still paying taxes today, to keep every euro of their income tomorrow. This will benefit more than 1,650 million workers, 730 000 pensioners, 60 000 self-employed and farmers, thus more than 2.4 million Austrians will benefit from this measure. This increases the purchasing power of many, but above all small incomes and supports the economy at the right time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Sufficient equity is the key and the prerequisite for a new dynamic and offensive of our small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. May. Worm: Read the poverty report!]] The lack of equity is still due to the insolvency issue number one for many businesses. At the same time, adequate capital requirements are essential for rapid business growth and thus also for more employment. Capital equity has so far been discriminated against against in Austria. This has also led to an under-average capitalization of our economy. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we propose that, for the first time from January 2004, profits not collected in Austria will be taxed at half the average tax rate. More than 200 000 individual entrepreneurs and companies will benefit from this. This is the most massive equity promotion measure that has so far been implemented in Austria. It will allow for improvements in the declared equity of up to 10 percent in just five years. We thus strengthen the crisis strength of these companies, we increase their willingness to invest, and we trigger a growth shift. We want to create jobs and thus strengthen the economy at the right time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The third point, ladies and gentlemen, is justice. In Austria too, the year has only twelve months. I have always thought it unacceptable that finance ministers, just to enhance their budgets cosmetically, make the economy a 13th. VAT prepayment required. This was a huge burden on liquidity with €1.7 billion. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: This is a mature performance! Exactly researched!]] We have repeatedly announced that we will abolish this injustice, so I am very happy that if you follow our proposal, in December 2002 this 13. VAT prepayment last time. So this is the 13th anniversary. No longer provide prepayment of VAT. We are thus strengthening the economy at the right time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have been talking about ecologizing our tax system for a long time. We are putting them into practice in the European equinox. We are starting with an increase in the taxation of energy consumption. At the same time, we reduce the additional wage costs for older workers. This provides important incentives for their employment. The burden on the consumption of natural resources and the discharge of human labour create jobs and meet the European Union's eco-social objectives. You see, environment, ecology is very important to us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] High house! This first stage of the tax reform will move a volume of approximately €950 million. It will lead to a net relief of €500 million. Together with the two economic recovery packages, the discharges even amount to € 1 billion. These are substantial first steps of a discharge. The discharge is coming! Let us inform the population comprehensively and jointly. These are important impulses to raise the mood as well. That is how we strengthen the economy and contribute to an increase in employment! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] After the securely comprehensive discussions and the decisions we will take on the 2003 and 2004 federal proposals and on the budget accompanying laws, we will be preparing the next discharge step. It's our goal, with 1. In January 2005 the second major stage of the tax reform with a net relief volume of €2.5 billion was put into effect. A major collective reform of income tax or wage tax will bring clear reliefs to all workers, to employees, to employees, to employees. [[Abg. May. Worm: Flat-Tax!]] We will have to address the next major reforms in corporate taxation. A reduction in the corporate tax rate by at least 3 percent is necessary in order to ensure the competitiveness of Austria's economic and labour location for the next years. The continuation of the ecologisation of the tax system while at the same time compensating for wage reductions, as well as massive simplifications of the very complex tax system, are important. – All of this is on our reform agenda. Ladies and gentlemen! This tax reform will give Austria wings: It will stimulate private consumption, it will stimulate investment, and it will stimulate the pace of innovation and growth of our economy. [[Abg. Oils: But not you!]] We want to implement the necessary relief for the good and secure future of Austria just and sustainable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! In conclusion: Our common goal must be to overcome the growth weakness of the past. We therefore want, first of all, a balanced government budget over the economic cycle. High debt suffocates the dynamics of the economy, debt reduction and economical economies liberate us. Austria has made the change of course. He will open up new scope for action. Secondly, We must increase growth, invest in the future. Austria spends more money on education, research and infrastructure than ever before. This will strengthen our innovative strength, improve our competitiveness and increase our growth potential. Thirdly, Further liberalisation, deregulation, privatisation and more flexible market conditions strengthen private entrepreneurship and competition and increase location attractiveness. [[Abg. Oils: This is not neoliberal! That's quite banal!]] This promotes investment and brings employment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oils: Banal and neoliberal!]] Fourthly, tax reduction. This gives citizens more purchasing power, which increases the business's willingness to invest, promotes capitalisation and allows them to take on innovation and research risks. It is the key to revitalising the economy and brings more prosperity to wider sections of the population. Fifth – this is important –: Our policy aims at better opportunities for youth, more support for the family, better security for the really needy and the disabled, higher fairness between generations, and hence overall more social justice. [[Abg. May. Worm: Bla bla bla!]] This will strengthen social responsibility and social cohesion in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! These are the cornerstones of our Austrian success model. With this economic policy programme and the double budget presented today, we learn from the past, we act in the present, and we ensure the future of Austria sustainable and socially fair. I ask you for your support and invite you to go this way together for Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e3957	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for Finance for his statement. 2. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (38 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Ozone Act and the Immission Protection Act Air (66 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e3981	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). He'll talk to us for 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4005	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Austria has followed a successful path with its concept of the eco-social market economy and has thus turned to number one in Europe, in which the EU is preparing and preparing for environmental protection. We were particularly concerned about air conservation, clean air was a central concern. We have therefore also given special importance to the achievement of the Kyoto objective and the implementation of the Kyoto measures. We are taking another important environmental policy step with the new Emissions Maximal Air and the Novelles to the Ozone Act and the Immissions Protection Act Air. We have already been successful in reducing air pollutants in recent years. For example, sulphur dioxide emissions have fallen by more than 50 percent over the last ten years. But I'm just saying, Further efforts are needed, for example in the ozone precursor substances, in the nitrogen oxides or also in volatile organic compounds. Ladies and gentlemen! We need a comprehensive strategy for clean air. The government programme contains this strategy. An important part of this strategy is this Air Resource Package, which now sets new national ceilings for certain pollutants, which provides that the population will be informed about the ozone exposure earlier, and that it also has the content of further efficiency improvements being achieved in execution. On the three laws or novels some remarks: The Emissions Maximal Air Act implements EU law. It creates national emission limits, which are now legally fixed and will be complied with from 2010, and it brings – that is also important – an improvement in the data situation through an annual inventory. The novelle on the Ozone Act also implements an EU directive. Ladies and gentlemen! It brings about a further reduction in ozone exposure and an improvement in the early warning system for our population. Finally, the novel to the Immission Protection Act adjusted air of this law. The issue of ozone is now finally regulated in the Ozone Act. It also brings about an increase in efficiency, greater transparency, lighter procurement rules and the like. Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, we can say to this law and to these novels: Austria has already done a lot in recent years for the preservation and repair of our environment, but this concept is another proof that we want to be a model for Europe in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The unanimous decision-making in the Committee has also shown impressively that this path is the right one. Ladies and gentlemen! Our policy, the policy of this coalition, is characterised by a willingness to reform, reform and responsibility for the future generations. This federal government and this coalition operate sustainable policies, not only as you can see, in the necessary pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4066	The next honourable Member, Mr Mag, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Sima. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4084	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A brief sentence is permitted to me at your address, President Dr. Khol: I found it very strange that, after the Minister of Finance's speech had been concluded, you said: “Karl-Heinz! That was a brilliant speech!" to the microphone trumpets. I already expect the President of the National Council to act extraparticipally – and not to give such praises via room microphone after a speech of himself! I really can't understand that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: If you give a brilliant speech now, we say so too, but we are still waiting!]] I do not think it is too much to demand that the President of the National Council act over-participally – and not distribute praise to individual ministers. I think you're going to give me a hand because you wouldn't want it to be the other way around. Ladies and gentlemen! We welcome the implementation of this Ozone Directive, which the EU has given us. An appropriate procedure has already been initiated, because Austria was sparse in this area. What I regret, even though we will agree to the proposal and have also agreed to it in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, is that no longer will go beyond the requirements of the European Union. This seems to be a principle in environmental legislation now that it is no longer possible to go beyond the EU's proposals. For the alleged environmental model country of Austria, this is a bit of a matte performance, I have to say. Most recently, all environmental laws have come mainly from the European Union. That is to say, there are few ambitions in this area to take action. The main implementation of directives is given by the EU. Unfortunately, this is a little too little for ambitious environmental policy, Mr Environment Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The implementation of this Directive is an improvement for Austria. We will have a national programme for reducing emissions and reducing precursor substances in the ozone sector throughout the country. There will be alert plans, there will be remediation plans in this area, and there will be a reduction in the information threshold, i.e. the warning level. That means that these are quite positive measures that we are now implementing with this law. The limit values are also lowered. There will have to be a limit value above one hour at fewer measuring points, i.e. only at one measuring point, so that the warning level in the ozone range is triggered. Federal Minister! But how effective this law is now, it will also be very much dependent on implementation. Is there a paperier now, or will there actually be measures? – It must be clear to us that this implementation will now also more often achieve this so-called information level, i.e. more often the warning level will be given in the ozone sector. Then we will have to put in place measures that are not so popular. This will then be partly restrictions in the transport sector and so on. It will now depend on what concrete measures will be taken by the countries, but also by the Federal Government in order to fulfil these tasks. Since we otherwise have no opportunity to talk about this issue, I would like to conclude by saying a few words to the Environment Committee and to the procedure in the Environment Committee. There were three applications for opposition, whose treatment by the government parties was also postponed this time. This is a process that – I don't want to say – has system in recent years. The reason for this is that it is obvious from the government parties that one does not want to discuss applications for the opposition in plenary. I would like to appeal to you if you are interested in constructive cooperation in the Environment Committee – we are interested – to be at least as fair and democratic as we can vote on our proposals. The permanent postponements mean that we will never have the opportunity to discuss our requests in the plenary session. I think it is simply and simply undemocratic if we do not get this opportunity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that you act with the majority relations as they are now is simply such that these applications are permanently postponed, but will never be voted on is a new practice that exists in many committees. I vehemently reject this practice. I would therefore like to appeal to you again: If you want to work together constructively, at least be so fair that you at least vote on our requests, then at least you have the courage to reject our requests if you are not our opinion, but finally stop adjourning everything in order to get out of the way of a debate here in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4142	Mr Wittauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4160	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mrs Sima, your sensitivity in all honours – but that was a good budget speech. I would like to express my praise: Honor who deserves honor! I think... [[Abg. Parnigoni: And the partyity of the President! That's a strong piece!]] I do not think it is necessary to say to Mrs Colleague, who is here at the speaker's desk. Since we are already praising: We have to thank our Minister Gorbach and Minister Pröll for this very bill which is in place today. The implementation of this bill will take place in a very short time. I would like to thank you once again, because that was a heart concern for the liberals. Praise in the right place is always appropriate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Mr Wittauer! You owe this to the EU! Nothing done!]] I know the sensibilities, but I will come back to what we owe to you today from the Social Democrats – like the transit agreement that we are almost flabbling through. With the IG air we will achieve some things that are good for our country. That is why I stand here and am proud that we have this bill. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Thick air in the SPÖ!]] But also for me as a liberal – I am now returning to the actual content – it is a praise when the social democrats scoff at this place, because then I know that I have made a good policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] Today's legislative project is a progress in environmental policy and progress towards further minimising pollution in Austria. We have discussed the Kyoto Protocol here in this House, we have discussed sustainability in the environmental field, we have read reports on the fact that limit values are being exceeded, and we see news about the increasing traffic burden. The population is wondering: What does the Federal Government do? What are the Members of Parliament doing? – The answer lies in front of us: As a result of the enlargement of the EU, there will be an increase in the volume of traffic in Austria, Vienna will be affected by the tangent as will the main transit routes running from east to west or south. Nevertheless, as a Tyrolean, I was allowed to talk primarily about the situation in my federal state. “Thanks to the wrong figures of the former head of state Weingartner and the ex-minister Streicher of the Social Democrats, we have a transit contract that has really done damage to Austria. [[Abg. Reheis: And what do we have now? Nothing!]] “Thanks to the increase in traffic, the Alpine transit is one of the greatest health risks for the Tyrolean population. Fritz Gurgiser of the Transit Forum regularly goes to the public with new tables and data, and the population wants us to do something against the transit. Even appointed chief negotiators with special European contacts, such as Herwig van Staa, polterns against the EU, threaten with their veto, then little later, and say how valuable the European idea is and can actually be done as well as nothing at all. But we know that's not quite the way it is. There is, for example, the possibility of a night's ban to limit traffic and emissions. We have decided on the Alpine Convention, thus setting a sign that there are also people in Tyrol in addition to stones and mountains. It is important to protect the habitat, because for the population, nature is the basis of life both in agriculture and tourism. Now we have set a further stage on the way to reducing emissions, increasing the quality of the air and raising the quality of life. This bill not only takes account of European development, but also contains numerous intensifications to the current legal situation. I would like to mention a few examples: If a limit value is exceeded today, then a state captain – once it was so that the national leaders couldn't care – is forced to present and implement a package of measures within 15 months after a status survey. I think this is a progress; earlier it was a kann-destination, today it is a must-destination. In the case of bans, which were always sprinkled with derogations, it is now so that there is a limit of twelve months. I mean, this too is a step forward. The head of state can no longer simply do what he wants, but he must also implement this package of measures. With the introduction of more time-consuming regulations and simplifications where the bureaucratic form of office is strong, we have tried to claim environmental concerns and prevent negligence. Every small charge is important to protect our habitat through this bill. Of course, someone can make themselves from the opposition here and say: It's far too little. – Of course it is too little! Of course, in protecting our habitat, the principle applies: Enough is never enough. It is still possible to adopt better laws, even stricter rules; as I said, however, we have to do with one stage here, and every step in this direction is a real step. Behind the Immission Protection Act Air, short IG Air, stands a longer-term strategy. No matter what Federal Government is in office: It should not change the direction in which environmental matters are moving. The rules are clear, the direction is defined: We want an Austria with low pollutant loads, with as little pollution as possible and a high quality of life as possible. We can no longer correct the betrayal of Tyrol, as we call it in Tyrol, by the government of Vranitzky with its inadequate transit contract. The cart is stuck, time trips are not possible to change something. Today we can only put in place measures that do not conflict with the laws and regulations of the European Union. That means that we must pay particular attention to every measure in Tyrol, that it will not be perceived as a unilateral measure to hinder the free movement of goods. At EU level, we cannot argue that we want to protect the interests of Tyrol or the interests of Austria. When we talk to the European Union, it must be clear that not the state is the demarcational territory, but the interests of the people – both those of the holidaymakers and those of the locals – must be at the centre. Ladies and gentlemen! The principle of environmental policy must mean that there are no limits. If European politicians say that the burden in Tyrol is not so bad, there are enough other or equal burdens in other European countries, I also call on these politicians to take measures that are similar to ours. Environmental protection knows no boundaries, pollutants do not comply with agreements, they affect the climate, health, so that the social state, the countries and municipalities. Since we are aware of this, we have participated in the global fight against pollution and natural destruction as a small country – Kyoto Protocol, Toronto objective and Rio Conference. Even though the United States persistently refuses to listen to the reason of life – we contribute to global climate protection, we contribute to reducing pollutants and try to stop those who do not comply with these objectives. In concrete terms, this means fighting the contaminants who, with their pollutants, are worsening the air quality in Tyrol and also in Austria. In Tyrol, people suffer from pollution pollution, but they also suffer from the noise of transit. I am not one of those politicians who have become hardy due to this burden, but I listen to the Austrians, I listen to the Tyroleans. It is therefore important to me that this law is implemented today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I don't think there's an effect right away. But this step brings about a law that actually guarantees implementation, and that is important to me. In spite of all this, I ask the opposition to agree to this bill, to go this way together in environmental policy and to continue to follow this path consistently.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4272	Mrs Glawischnig. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. I'd like to set the clock to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4290	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The Greens will agree to the present package on air pollution, but this is a good opportunity to discuss how long Austria always needs to implement EU proposals, EU directives and to discuss what quality it does. Austria joined the European Union in 1995 with a great vision, namely the project to be an environmental pioneer, environmental model country, an engine within the European Union, to drive forward and develop environmental standards. We also had better standards in some areas. However, this has been wrong in the meantime. It is precisely this directive that we see very clearly: Austria has become a follow-up. The EU directive, which we are now implementing with regard to the emission limit for the future, would have been implemented last year. As early as October last year, the corresponding action programme would have been notified to Brussels. But that's not an individual case. The Ozone Act – as the second example – which we are also innovativeating and improving here today includes demands, the environmental organizations have been saying and writing! – ten years. I can remind myself of a press conference in 1993, which was precisely about the problem that Austria was concerned with ozone prevention, with ozone warning far behind the EU standards, with the three-hour mean value, with the higher limit value and so on. There has now been a procedure here because the Commission has sued Austria. The last Minister for the Environment, Environment and Consumer Policy called it word-clave when we urged that EU law be finally implemented by this procedure, to recognise the shortcomings and to turn them into the better EU system. Now we're finally doing it. I wish for the future that we are no longer imitators in EU environmental law, but that we are open to these things, that we want to be pioneers, and that we will also be able to do this with courage, and that we also draw economic benefits from them, as has been the case in the past in the field of air pollution. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] With regard to ozone, there is a big problem: In some cases, the limit values are significantly exceeded in Austria. In the last 15 years, there has essentially been no success; this is an area in which, as already mentioned, very drastic measures may be necessary, for example, in the field of transport. It will also show how courageous the new Minister for the Environment is in the task of speeding up and making them more efficient, in some cases for ten to 15 years. Unfortunately, however, we are also in danger of becoming an EU follower in another very important area. Since my previous speaker said that air pollutants, pollution and air pollution do not adhere to agreements, I must point out that Austria does not comply with agreements either. If Austria continues to do so with the Kyoto Protocol, which we have signed, which the US unfortunately did not sign, then we have no chance at all to achieve the objectives by 2008/2010. In this context, I have noticed today in the budget speech the following: Minister for Finance Grasser said that environmental protection was important to the government, and he referred to the budgetary resources available for climate protection. We compared these with those budgets made available by the blue-black Council of Ministers, Cabinet Schüssel I, last year. For the great surprise we had to observe: It's less this time! The new budget is less planned than the Blue-Black Cabinet Schüssel I decided in the Council of Ministers last year. The new Minister for the Environment has less money available than the old one would have had to achieve climate change objectives. I mean, that's a very, very sad development. I wonder why you have not enforced the negotiations with the Minister of Finance and why there is now less money in the overall budget of €43 million, which is expected to be the whole legislative period, than it was at the end of the day. We have already criticized the fact that this is too little. We finally wanted the full funding of the €90 million needed to provide a fresh cell cure for the Austrian economy – as many economists say. But this is really the summit: It was better than Shell II in the field of environmental protection and climate protection. [[Abg. May. Molterer: As agreed with you!]] You think I'm not quite intelligent, Mr Molterer, when you say that it was so agreed with us. On the contrary: You know exactly that we had agreed much better numbers! You really think I'm stupid! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Should I show you? Mrs. Glavischnig! A short memory!]] It is not understandable how this situation could have worsened from last year to this day; and this also in view of the dramatic environmental disaster in Austria last year. I think it is cynical for a finance minister to thank the people for their willingness to donate, but in the area in which he could do something, namely to give financial injections for climate protection and thus to take natural precautions against such disasters, to do nothing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We Greens are therefore bringing forward a motion for a resolution on climate change, so that we do not become an EU follow-up to what we are at the moment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Pollutants have no limits. As far as environmental leaders, environmental protection and the truly progressive, intelligent use of such instruments are concerned, Austria should not have any limits, and at least in this budget, if already verbally committed so offensively to climate protection and the eco-social market economy, should make it visible in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4388	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I call Mr Gahr. The speaking time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4409	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The challenge of the future for all of us will be how we can deal with environmental interests and economic interests together in the dialogue. The following three principles must be observed: An intact environment, based on ecological principles, is our top principle, and we must use economic principles skillfully. We need an intact environment to have a basis for economy, agriculture and tourism. Another principle must be to protect our citizens in order to ensure that we take care of health and do not have to pay after-care for them. However, it is equally important for the future that we create framework conditions for our economy, which enable us to ensure secure jobs, strengthen competitiveness and have prospects for Austria's economic location. Unfortunately, the environmental and air quality situation has deteriorated in recent years. There are regional overruns of the limit values, which are naturally due to the situation. As a Tyrolean MP, I can already say that it makes a difference whether you live in the plain or in a V- Valley where many Tyrolean citizens have to live. But there are also several reasons why air quality is affected to be more objective. This happens, of course, through transit. Secondly, this is also due to the increasing economic development: more businesses, more jobs. But thirdly, it is also one's own traffic; and there each one of us is required to move forward with a good example. Unfortunately, it is also true that in Austria, railways in the field of freight and goods transport lose capacity and traffic on the road increases. Therefore, I am grateful to Federal Ministers Pröll and Gorbach for the rapid implementation of the EU template with the new Immissions Protection Act Air. This novelle actually brings three priorities: firstly, a cleaning in the ozone sector, which is regulated by the Ozone Act. Secondly, it makes it clear when implementing transport measures. There are time limits for exceptions, there are forced measures in the event of non-compliance with driving bans, and there is the facilitated call. But it's important. Thirdly, the closure of a legal gap, because air conservation is federal competence and it was only possible for countries to take action here. In practice – and especially we Tyroleans have already been able to implement measures and are, I believe, pioneers – we must even be pioneers in order to protect our citizens so that there are general bans on air pollution. Derogations are now limited to 12 months and need to be subject to a review thereafter. A so-called status survey must be completed within nine months, and within six months – up to a maximum of 15 months – the head of state must issue a catalogue of measures in case of excesses. We are all affected by noise, dust and exhaust gases. The current excesses of pollutant have made it necessary, as I explained in detail earlier, especially in Tyrol to bind up a package of measures. This also gives our head of state, who was an initiative, and the whole of the Tyrolean state government the possibility that in this area measures with a night-travel ban between 10 p.m. and 5 p.m., with 1st. It will be extended to cover the whole of the year. There is also a sectoral ban on driving with 1. August enters into force to transfer goods such as waste, roundwood, grain and iron ore to the rail. Fortunately, however, there are also – and this is important for the domestic economy – exceptions to the destination and source traffic in order not to endanger the economic location. The aim of this measure of the state of Tyrol is to reduce the truck number by 200 000, because of course we also know that we are under international pressure in the free movement of goods in the EU. I am also very grateful that we are not only working aftercare, but also that our Federal Minister Pröll has announced preventive measures in the last Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which will be implemented gradually this year. There is a five-point programme from our Federal Minister, through which the emissions of pollutants from the Transport should be reduced: First, the introduction of lead-free fuels by 1. ==References== Lead as an environmental poison number one must be removed from the fuel. Secondly, there are policy initiatives at EU level. It is mentioned in the first place of the diesel particle filter. We are currently trying intensively to find allies at EU level. The third measure is to mention the forced use of alternative fuels. I believe that this is an opportunity for local agriculture. The fourth point is national measures such as strengthening infrastructure – new transport concepts, modern transport concepts – and also an optimization on the logistics issue. Fifthly, legal initiatives are important, as we decide on them today with regard to the IG air. All in all, this innovation accelerates the process. It is important to limit and control more flexibility locally. We can counter international pressure, which, due to the free movement of goods, will affect Europe as a whole and will not be reduced by the enlargement of the East. We can contribute to ensuring quality of life. That's where we're all required. The difficult-to-reach Kyoto target must always be at the heart of our efforts; this novelle is a contribution to this. Ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful for the broad agreement here in the House. A measure alone is too little, there is still much to do for our environment. We're all for It is a matter of making a contribution. The environment needs it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4519	Mrs Bayr. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of the Your speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4538	Mr President. Minister! Dear High House! This novel – which has often been said – implements an EU directive. It's late, but it's not. I also dare to say that it is an EU directive that is being implemented, because it is a bit unloving what is happening there. This novel is a mandatory program and certainly not the course. There could have been much more ideas that there could have been much more emotion and approaches to this law. Let me address some criticisms specifically concerning ozone law! On the one hand, there is § 13 para. 1, which provides for programmes for those ozone surveillance areas where a target value is exceeded. With regard to these programmes, national leaders are asked to make proposals for action. – Now I think it would have been possible, since the federal states have a bit more to take into account. [[Abg. Großruck: This is Austrian courtesy! You don't know federalism! The heads of state can't buy anything!]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Unfortunately!]] I think it would have been very smart to come up with a really concrete mechanism, as the Federation and the countries can work together, because binding cooperation is absolutely necessary for a meaningful and functioning ozone protection. In my opinion, a pure request is also a too weak basis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Second, to § 15 para. 1 which provides an action plan for emergency measures, which may also be absent, if the measures do not have significant potential. – I am already in favour of it and think it is politically correct – even in the sense of the costs – that there is a proportionality on the one hand between the means and on the other hand between the effects. That's not a question at all. The question is only – and I have also put it in committee –: Who, in fact, determines this proportionality? To this I got the answer: A study will be commissioned, and on the basis of this study, the national leaders can decide. I doubt that it is possible to draw up a study that will always make a clear directive, which is proportionate and what is not, when, how or where emergency action should be taken. What else I doubt much more is that it is possible, whenever it is necessary to put an immediate action into order a study, because that would take too long. It is about immediate action, something that studies do not actually have in themselves. I'm not against studies – not at all! – I think these are very useful, for a good basis, but I just think that this law lacks clarity as to proportionality – and that is a pity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the third, to § 15 para. 4: It regulates the possibility of a regulation for bans on motorised individual transport as a measure and also regulates the possibility of exceptions, namely exceptions to motor vehicles with particularly low emissions of air pollutants. – There is a particularly low level of air pollutant emissions. There you can ask: What's that? I've come to think of this, I've associated electric car with it. On the question of what is meant by a vehicle with particularly low emissions of air pollutants, I have received the answer: These are Euro-4 trucks. – I find this very exciting that the car should be with low air pollution emissions! That is, we are setting the level for the exceptions so high that we will never exceed them, and that means that there will hardly be any significant relevant traffic restrictions on ozone problems. We all know that precisely this motorized individual transport is at the same time the main cause for all climate-related pollutants. This is a pity, and even more a pity, that concrete incentives are missing in the law – incentives to switch to public transport. Mr Scharer will say a few things about this. Even if it were only the implementation of an EU directive, it could have been, I believe, far better rules for air and for the environment. I am thinking of dust and long-lasting diesel particles, which could have been much better managed. I am sorry that the Minister for the Environment has missed an opportunity with this presentation, namely the opportunity to take a firm stand on environmental protection in Austria. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4610	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4628	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is an environmental policy and environmental standards number one in Europe. This would not be possible if we were only always to implement one environmental policy from Europe, but we have also committed ourselves in the past and will do so in the future. So this accusation goes simply and simply into emptiness, otherwise we could never have reached this place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You can also see this on the central issue of climate protection policy. While the target in Europe is minus 8 per cent, Austria has set a reduction target of minus 13 per cent on the basis of 1990. This too is an ambitious goal than Europe has done on average. We will also achieve this goal with the measures we are taking and with our Climate Action Plan between 2008 and 2012. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have planned the use of budget resources of 30, 60 and 90 million € until 2006. Mrs Glavischnig! If you correct the 2003 Council of Ministers lecture, I have to say that I quote the 2002 Council of Ministers lecture: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: 2002!]] They have forgotten that the budget target for €90 million was used in 2008. However, we will already implement this sum in 2006 – as you have always sought – and will make a decisive contribution to climate protection and to achieving this objective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Austrian Federal Government has made it its central concern to implement an action programme “clean air”. This consists of a mix of measures. I myself have taken the initiative to do so, and we will be starting from 1. January 2004 offer sulphur-free fuel on a voluntary basis together with the OMV across Austria. This will lead to a rapid improvement in air quality, especially in the urban areas of our country. In the past, we have already been able to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions by 50 percent and will continue to make every effort – for example, within the framework of European initiatives, we will take an additional step through diesel particle filters for diesel vehicles – in order to achieve the desired high standards. We will implement this efficiently our programme. In order to be able to implement this programme of action "clean air", we have now presented this package of legislation to Parliament. It consists of the following three laws: Emission maximum volume law air, novelle to the Ozone Act and Immission Protection Act Air. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the individual laws, I would like to maintain the following: We set national limits with the maximum emission limit law air. We must reach these limits by 2010 and then comply with them. We want to reduce the negative effects of acidification, over-fertilization and soil-based ozone across Europe. Austria will work consistently on this. Mrs Sima, you have asked me not only to present “flowery” laws, but also to put in place measures to achieve the desired objectives. You can assume that this Federal Government is really addressing the objectives it defines and is also putting in place the necessary measures to achieve these objectives. This is also true of environmental policy. [[Abg. May. Sima: We will remind you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also create an improved data situation with the emission limit of the law. We will carry out emissions inspections annually to locate the pollutants and then derive the corresponding measures from them. Now to the novelle on the Ozone Act: We will thus help to reduce the overall ozone exposure. This amendment sets out the 2010 target values for ozone concentrations in the air. We will draw up action plans, and they will also be implemented consistently. The population is warned earlier in the future than it was in the past. We have had three thresholds so far, and we will reduce them to two. These are: Information threshold and alarm threshold. We will thus be able to protect the population from ozone pollution in a more timely and efficient way. Now to the third part of the law package, to the novelle on the Immission Protection Act Air: We are setting new measures – this is already a few times – especially for the sensitive zones. That's where the heads of state were addressed. A clarification shall be made of the implementation of transport measures, such as a temporary limitation of derogations. We are increasing the potential for forced measures for executives to violate driving bans, and we are facilitating these bans. This is a decisive advantage for the sensitive regions in particular and contributes significantly to the reduction of pollutants in these regions. Due to the reduction of the time limit for status surveys in the framework of the Action Plan, we increase the force for the first time to 15 months. This will increase the efficiency of the opportunities for effective rapid action to protect the population. I believe that with the action programme “clean air”, with the desulphurisation of the fuels and with the present legislative instruments, namely the Emissions Maximum Volumes Act Air, the Ozone Act and the Immissions Protection Act Air, we are making a decisive contribution to a better environmental quality in our country, thus increasing the quality of life in Austria. Therefore, I am glad that there was unanimity in the Committee on this matter and that the opposition has also joined this common objective. In any case, we are prepared – you can assume – to implement these projects gradually and consistently, and we are confident that we will achieve this by 2010.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4696	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4714	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Introducing a thought: I think we would have saved ourselves a lot of discussion in environmental policy and also in transit issues, in all these things, if we had negotiated a reasonable transit agreement at the time of accession to the EU if, at the time of the SPÖ government participation, the necessary framework conditions had been created in this area for which we now have to fight so to speak. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: You didn't bring anything together in transit policy! Absolutely nothing!]] We're talking today about the emission limit law air. Mrs. Sima! I think it's totally funny, and I've never experienced a Member's wish for his requests to be rejected. I think it’s “inspiring” that you’re out here saying something like this: Please reject my requests! – Something can't be all right! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Sima.]] You have to put your requests – and I told you that in committee – in a formal manner and fill them with a good content, and the liberals will be willing to support and support your ideas. [[Abg. May. Worm: In Tyrol one suffocates at the noise and the exhaust gases!]] Thank God for not suffocating in the noise, because the SPÖ series are so empty that it cannot be so loud at all. [[Abg. Reheis: Is something wrong with you?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Thank you. But now to this matter of law: I am convinced that this law is a step in the right direction. I also share the opinion of the opposition that even more has to be done in this area. It is often the case, however, that you just take a step in the right direction, which many steps still have to follow. It is precisely by this law that we are creating an extension of competence for the national leaders, but also forcing them to act, that I believe that both our fellow Members and the SPÖ colleagues will give a lot of freedom to ensure, in their countries with their organisations, that this directive is implemented in such a way that it also fulfils its purpose and contributes to bringing our country to the better in environmental policy, so to speak. One thing is clear: It must be in the interests of the general population that we have an intact nature, that we have a healthy environment and that we do not create a land worth living, but that we are preserved. I would also like to admit – with all the legitimate criticism that comes from the opposition – that: Environmental policy in our country is not that bad! Nature in our country is not that broken as it is often described! Faith You're telling me: We should really rather work constructively to change and improve things, rather than act destructively in the committees, and not contribute to these changes. I should also like to say a few words to the committee responsible as such. This committee, I believe, is a very important committee, because environmental policy will increasingly play a central role. The Minister for the Environment will certainly be very much required in the next few years, and it is quite clear that this Committee will have important changes because environmental policy affects many other areas that are directly or indirectly affected by them. There has also been a discussion on nuclear policy in this committee. I welcome, as I would like to expressly say here, Mrs Glavischnig's proposal to re-position us in the Committee with a four-party proposal on nuclear policy. No question at all! We're going to position ourselves to that. It has always been and has always been the liberal attitude to contribute to an exit from nuclear policy, to ensure that Austria remains nuclear-free and that Europe becomes nuclear-free, and we will support it. We will also be fighting side by side here, together with our colleagues from the Government Party, for us to implement what we demand. Therefore, I would like to ask you again – that is what I would like to give you – to work constructively here and not to operate polemics, because none of us have been helped with polemics. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, the previous speakers from my group have already said it: We support this bill. We will vote in favour of the draft law. There is a broad consensus on this matter of law, which I very much welcome. I believe that we should stay on this path or not leave this path and in the future ensure that we take more and faster steps so that environmental policy in Austria retains the importance it currently has. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4816	The next item is the report by Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4835	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Appreciate High House! The provisions of the Emissions Maximum Air Act are based on the Gothenburg Protocol to combat acidification, eutrophication and ground-based ozone. This sets nationally the maximum emission limits for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, volatile organic substances and ammonia to be observed by the end of 2010. The Greens have also asked about ammonia. The load with ammonia is assumed – a rough estimate – with 68 kilo tons per year, but should actually be at 66 kilo tons per year. This has led us to consider very specific measures, measures which have, in part, been rather incompetently commented here in the House. That means that we have the problem of recognizing what to do, but there are no concrete proposals to do so. The law does not contain any new instruments for reducing air pollutants, but, as it were, it is a reflection of the EU directive, a directive which, as my colleague said earlier, is not exactly "excellent", which is a new approach. It merely serves to capture emissions and to document measures, which is, after all, something, but it stands to reason and falls down to the accuracy of the emissions inventory. In the case of the innovations, we consider it to be positive that sanctions are intensified in the event of infringements of the catalogues of measures, otherwise the whole instrument will not be useful. The deadline for drawing up the status survey is shortened; this is also to be assessed positively. And those IPPC plants that are not yet subject to a federal legal authorisation obligation are subject to authorisation. The innovations are therefore generally to be assessed positively. However, this should not conceal the fact that the implementation of the law has so far been very inadequate. Although there are far more than ten air pollutants areas in Austria, until now a single catalogue of measures has been adopted. Even in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the special capacity of our minister has come about to be very confident. However, confidence must not be confused with blue-eyeness. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's right!]] It is confident that we will achieve the goal of reducing CO2 emissions. That is to say, it is confident that from an assumed value of 86 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent to the assumed value of 68 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, we will achieve a reduction of 18 million tonnes, and that with little money, because the assumed support from the federal budget of € 540 million has been reduced to € 180 million, which I find miserable. This brings us back to the problem that, obviously, many people in the government assume that environmental protection is a kind of orchid theme, that is, that environmental protection is something that is quite nice but should not cost. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Did you look at the budget?]] The Greens voted for the law in the Committee, because it brings about improvements in the legal framework for air pollution. However, this does not change the criticism of the Greens that the implementation of the Ozone Act has so far been more than lacking. The revision of the Air Re Content Act for boilers and therefore for measures for large combustion plants has long been outstanding. Air is a volatile substance that you don't see, and there is obviously the saying: “What I don’t know doesn’t make me hot!” – Don’t hot, but sick! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4893	Mr Gorbach has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4915	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I spoke spontaneously, because the word “transit” has fallen several times. Of course, transit and its development have a great deal to do with the environment and the pollution of our air. I have, above all, made my speech because of the fact that a call has come from the opposition ranks in connection with the transit contract, with the accusation that: Now we have nothing! I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity to note that it was really a mistake to forget when negotiating the transit agreement before accession to the EU, more than ten years ago – and I do not want to address the political responsibility of the time – to ensure that a replacement solution is adopted when it expires after ten years. While it was promised by the EU that by then there would be a road cost directive that would allow the transit to be restricted, it was forgotten that this Treaty would include the possibility that the Road Costs Directive might not be there until the end of the transit contract. This is the case now. Therefore, in the few weeks of my term of office, I have not failed to promote, first of all, a suitable transitional solution with regard to the transit treaty, a transitional solution containing at least half what we have promised, but which has not been held – I am coming to speak later on – and, second, to achieve that the responsible EU Commissioner De Palacio has quickly put the Road Costs Directive on the table for discussion. My efforts have also been successful, because she informed me yesterday in Brussels that she wanted to put the draft directive on the table and discuss it before the summer. So it has very well used this urge from Austria's side. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, in the many discussions I have held across party borders with various Members of the European Parliament – whether that was with Caveri, whether it was with Echerer of the Greens, whether it was with Swoboda, whether it was with Simpson from the Socialists yesterday, or whether it was with Peijs from the Conservatives in Europe – I always pointed out, knowing that there are some people who prefer not to have a transit contract in order to ensure unlimited transit traffic: If we do not find a solution, Austria will, of course, make use of national and regional possibilities! – I have always used Tyrol as an example. I am very much in favour of creating, in this respect, the legal conditions for national leaders to be able to stop polluting if necessary, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. I think this is a very positive thing. We should also talk about this in Europe, without threatening to do so at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen! I say something to you very clearly: It is not going to be good to act now with debt allocations, who then has confounded the matter of transit contracts, in which lies the cause of this bad situation in which we are now. I can recall that the transit agreement negotiated before Austria's accession to the EU basically promised two things: Firstly, that there is no boundless transit that there will be possibilities to limit the number of trucks passing through Austria by means of ecopoints regulation. Secondly, that the pollution burden is reduced by 60 percent, which is sustainable, beyond the transit contract. This sustainability does not end with 31. ==References== Both have not been done. Both were not observed. The 60 percent reduction has not yet been met by the EU, and the Road Costs Directive is not yet on the table. We are now in the bad situation of having to fight for a transitional solution for three years, although we have not actually gotten something promised. I'd like to remind you of that! I would therefore like to call on all political groups to support themselves and all of us in the government in finding, at European level, a reasonable solution, a solution which cannot be called Caveri's report, but which goes at least towards 'Silvester compromise', Denmark's compromise. In this context, I should like to say a few words about technology: The Euro-3 models, according to Caveri report and some others, would hinder the free movement of goods if the Euro-3 trucks were still subject to ecopoints, should not be liberalised, because, according to our calculations, 80 percent of all transit traffic would be liberalised. It really can't be! Furthermore, on this occasion I refer to the so-called Artemis study, a study by the TU-Graz, which was commissioned by the European Union and which also clearly proves that these Euro-2 and Euro-3 models in the sense of pollutant reduction, in the sense of low-pollutant trucks, did not bring what was stated in the theory in the test reports. In other words, the reduction of pollutant will take place at a maximum time when the so-called Euro-4 models are used. That is why we can quite liberalize them, but they will only be on the market, on the market from 2005. We must therefore do everything to bring the Euro-3 models back into the ecopoints scheme. I therefore believe that Mr von der SPÖ, Mr President, it is necessary to make calls here, but we should do all we can to find a transitional solution that serves the environment, which serves to reduce pollutant emissions and puts pressure on a road cost directive, which also has meat on the bone, if one wants to say so, which also allows cross-financing towards rail, which also allows for sectoral driving bans, which also make external cost calculation more possible for the toll calculation and similar. I ask for your support!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4985	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5003	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The implementation of two EU directives in the Federal Law, which amends a maximum emission level law, a federal law on national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants, as well as the Ozone Act and the Immission Protection Act Air, will further improve air quality in Austria. In order to reduce acidification, eutrophication and ground-based ozone, a strategy has been designed to enable a reduction in all three levels at European level. This is a matter for the European Parliament. Therefore, national emission limits for air pollutants – sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds and ammonia – have been established, which are no longer to be exceeded from 2010 onwards – a topic that may occur to a very chemical-technocratic, an impression that deceives. It is true that we are permanently and closely affected by it. The negative effects of air pollution are visible and noticeable. We all remember the pictures of dead forests from the Ore Mountains from the past years, see damage to objects and monuments. However, we must also note that there are direct effects on people, as studies prove. This federal law is a very important regulatory measure in the European context. It seems equally important to me to raise the awareness of the problem of all in order to increase the necessary acceptance of implementation steps. Two topics are of particular importance in the field of air pollutants: First, it's space heat, and second, it's traffic. In the area of space heating, many forward-looking measures have been implemented in recent years. In the field of renewable energy for heating and hot water production in Europe, Austria is in absolute excellence. Hundreds of biomass-based district heating plants and zig thousands of hacking goods and pellet ovens prove this. With regard to better use of space heat, almost all the federal states have implemented the key points of the climate strategy and have implemented a wide range of projects in the area of old house renovation as well as in the new construction of low-energy buildings. A very positive contribution can be made here by objective advisory bodies, such as the "energy agency forest district". Summarically: We're on the right path! More difficult is the situation in the transport sector: More and more vehicles, higher mileage and the addition of additional traffic flows through the reunification of Europe are a considerable challenge. In order to reduce air pollutants from the transport sector, our Environment Minister Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll, whose blueness in the environmental field is limited only to his eye color, is one of his first measures signing an agreement with the OMV, which provides for a comprehensive availability of sulphur-free fuels for both the Otto and diesel engines. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] ==References== In January 2004, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and Less fine particles from the diesel engines and less ground-based ozone are the most important objective. The next step must be the increased use of biogenic fuels. The use of biodiesel in relation to the conventional diesel fuel reduces the pollutant load in impressive dimensions. Biodiesel emits 46 percent less hydrocarbons, 52 percent less Russian and 36 percent less particulate matter. And biodiesel releases only that CO2 that was previously absorbed by the plant. The reunification of Europe More traffic flows, but considerable benefits. The new EU countries have significantly reduced their pollution levels. This has partly also been done with high-quality Austrian products – a fact that especially pleases the people of the border region, such as the Waldviertler. The re-unification also allows railway lines separated by the iron curtain to be restored. This is the case with the Zwettl–Waidhofen–Zlabings–Iglau route. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Minister of Finance has confirmed in this room that Mr Molterer, Federal Minister of Finance, has made sure that additional amounts – rising from 30 billion to 90 billion – are available in the period 2004 to 2006 in order to efficiently implement environmentally relevant projects in our home country Austria. This federal law is a sensible and efficient law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like your consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5092	The next speaker is Mr Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5110	Mr President. Mr. Minister! First of all, I should like to say that I am pleased that the finding that Austria is the environmental country number one in Europe has been met because this is due to the work done over the last decades. Unfortunately, however, I also have to say that this pioneering function has actually been lost in recent years. I remember the great discussions where environmental policy has not yet been so self-evident as to where environmental policy has been very sceptical. The positive thing about all these discussions is that environmental policy is generally regarded as a high value today. I do not want to see progress, such as the measure, that from 1. January 2004 in Austria is to be offered sulphur-free fuel. As far as the transit agreement is concerned, Mr Gorbach, I would like to point out that, of course, the EU has a lot to do with the Road Costs Directive, but on the other hand, there have been three years to negotiate a transitional arrangement. As long as there is no road cost directive in Europe, it is necessary to make virtually every effort to get a transitional regime. I wish us and you, too, much success in achieving an appropriate transitional arrangement. I would also like to make the point – almost every speaker has pointed out – that the mandatory implementation of the EU directives is now taking place. However, it is the emphasis on the words “compulsory implementation”. This expresses a certain summity. Nevertheless, I believe it is important to do everything to reduce national environmental pollution, prepare programmes and report on them. However, even now it is not clear on which date this has to be done. There is a reference to the fact that with 1. This positive contribution is to be measured on October 2006, but it is not necessarily acted upon. In this law – and I would like to say this critically – more of the tradition is frowned by a wide range of limit values, targets, alert values, alert values, supply values and information values, without ensuring that the execution bodies are also able to enforce compliance with all of them accordingly. This is my main criticism: that there are shortcomings in implementation, because the measures to be taken by the countries have not really been experienced, even though there has been some improvement and there has not been any alerts so far. I would also like to refer to a comment by the Tyrolean colleague, who has worked this out strongly. I would like to know, for example, whether in Tyrol there is a willingness, if, for example, an approval for a new industrial plant has been sought, to refuse, on the basis of the ozone pollution in this region, the consent to the re-establishment of the plant. That's the nail sample when it comes to implementation! It's not just about setting values, it's about putting them into practice in the consequence. This is very important in the fight against ozone pollution: that the appropriate measures are also really required by the countries. I believe that cooperation between countries, which takes account of specific regional needs, is very important. It is also about cooperation on what has to be done if there is a breach of the limit values. That's what it's all about. It is not just a proposal right, it is a question of cooperation with the countries and then, ultimately, of the actual procedure, in the case of the action programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5168	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5187	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! In Salzburg, 90 percent of all days in summer will be exceeded with the ozone of the precautionary value for human health. This is announced by the head of the measurement network for Salzburger Luftinformation. According to the 2002 Ozone Report, the analysis of ozone data from 1999 to 2001 shows that the target values for health protection are exceeded at 66 percent of the measuring points. And Ozon is not an abstract word! It greatly limits our health and has a strong impact on it. The main responsibility for heightening the air situation is the rapid growth of traffic, and this increase will continue to increase dramatically in the future. It is therefore clear that efforts are essential for a clean air. High house! This law is another step towards reducing the load on air pollutants and improving air quality across the EU and, of course, Austria. This will make a major contribution to the protection of the environment and, in particular, to human health, as the establishment of national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants will reduce acidification, soil ozone and over-fertilization. As the air pollutants do not stop at the national borders, Austria will benefit from the Europe-wide directive because a considerable amount of pollutants will be imported from neighbouring countries into Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For sustainability in the environmental field, it is particularly important that not only load values are established, but also binding, concrete measures are put in place. It is precisely this obligation that this law provides for, for the government will and will have to draw up programmes to speed up the ongoing reduction of emissions. It is also necessary to keep track of the objective that the set emission values will no longer be exceeded from 2010 onwards. We have great expectations in this regard in Mr Pröll. On-going review of the measures is also enshrined in the law, as annual emissions inventory has to be transmitted to the European Commission. In the second part of this Act, in the revision of the Ozone Act, the focus is on the clear definition of objectives and measures. The Directive contains targets and long-term objectives for the protection of human health and vegetation. Again, the Federal Government is obliged to develop programmes so that the target values can be met from 2010. In addition, national leaders are also required to draw up urgent action plans and to implement the necessary criteria. Ladies and gentlemen! This law is certainly a crucial contribution to environmental policy, as concrete programmes need to be drawn up and measures taken in the interests of the environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5251	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5269	Ladies and gentlemen! This debate often takes the view that the adoption of this law will automatically improve the environmental situation in the field of air pollutants. – Ladies and gentlemen! That is not the case! The situation will always depend on the way in which and with what concrete, targeted measures are taken in the areas concerned. I can read to you from the annual report of air quality measurements in Austria the list of all the limit values published for the year 2000. This is the first list to be found on the paper, so to speak. However, since I also follow this online, I can see that the excesses in the last two years, especially in the past few summers, have unfortunately increased significantly. In Kärnten in Wolfsberg, St. Andrä, Klagenfurt and Volksmarkt, in Lower Austria in St. Valentin, in Upper Austria in Linz, in Styria in Weiz, Hartberg and Köflach, in Graz practically throughout the city area, in Tirol in Innsbruck, in Upper Austria in Braunau, in Salzburg am Mirabellplatz, in Vienna am Hietzinger Kai and in Taborstraße, there were already notorical excesses that would have to lead to measures. [[Abg. Wattaul: Is this all from the house fire?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Have you heard of any measures? – The highly controversial catalogues of measures were those in Tyrol regarding the ban on night driving and now the discussed sectoral ban on driving, which we must do in order to reduce the load situations in our mountain valleys. [[Abg. Wattaul: Complete nonsense! You have to let them drive at night, the load comes only through the traffic jam...!]] We are required by the law here, and I am very satisfied that this novelle now also includes a reduction in the periods. [[Abg. Wattaul: You have to leave them at night!]] The mechanism was extremely difficult given the lack of time limits for the catalogues of measures and a very, very generous time-limit for the advance. Ladies and gentlemen! With these delays it has become clear that you have to react faster, and that is what is happening now. But we still have the problem, what is happening in concrete terms. You see these excesses – and the analyses of the data also show quite clearly –: The causer is primarily transport, and of course heavy traffic. [[Abg. Wattaul: 5,000 trucks at the burner a day!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You can go already, just do your feet hurt!]] Mr Wattaul! The house fire is a cheap excuse, you can see when you look at the pollution processes. [[New calls to the liberals.]] Mr Commissioner, I can explain it to you in detail. If you compare the pollutant processes at the measuring points with the speeds of heavy vehicles, you will see a parallel variation. Perhaps you too, Mr Wattaul, will understand that measures will have to be taken here, specifically relating to the polluter. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I can't go to the dentist if the shoes hurt me! [[Abg. Wattaul: You just want to create an enemy image!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr President, we are going to have to work properly. You too will have to understand that concrete action will have to be taken. Only these measures, ladies and gentlemen, will bring us to the goal that has been mentioned by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs and also by Members of the Liberals, namely to really reduce the pollution burden. Ladies and gentlemen! It was quoted from the transit contract to other measures – for example, in relation to the house fire – everything possible. Of course, the emissions disaster measures will not be sufficient to resolve the situation in the long term. That is to say, the question of the cost of transport – and that is again what you, Mr Wattaul, are going to have to solve! But there must not be fear of one's own courage and, secretly, be quite happy if we can use an excuse that the European Union offers us. [[Abg. Wattaul: I didn't know that was a traffic debate!]] In clear text: Intro-Austrian measures will have to be taken in a wide range of areas, and the existence of a list of pollutants overruns... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5426	Mr Wattaul, may I include you in the list of speakers? [[Abg. Wattaul: No!]] - No? Okay. Please, ladies and gentlemen, continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5452	Ladies and gentlemen! As you are obviously enjoying yourself on the subject: There is a list of limit values in this length, and I can tell you that, unfortunately, for the years 2002 and 2003, will be even longer. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] This must be an invitation for us not only to place on the horse of the IG-air regulations, but also to take further measures, for example in the area of rail/road costs. [[Abg. Scheibner: But the horses are not an alternative! Here's the animal protectors!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] That's why we won't come around. The Minister has said very optimistically that he will fight for cross-subsidisation. I hope that it will also prevail against the ASFINAG, which has no great enthusiasm for it. Of course, I can only support this measure. We also call for them, and I am very glad that some of our demands are slowly, but surely, but enter programmes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5508	I call Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5526	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! One of the most sensitive and vital areas of environmental protection is air pollution. In order to improve this, two directives of the European Union are now being incorporated into our national legislation. Austria is the number one environmental protection in the European Union. We are continuing this successful path. We increase the budget for air pollution by € 30 million from 2004 to 2006 in order to achieve the Kyoto target. In addition, national emission ceilings are set which aim to reduce acidification, eutrophication and ground-near ozone not only within Austrian borders but for the first time at pan-European level. This is an important step, as this will put the EU's Air Re Content Directives on a common standard. The maximum levels shall cover air pollutants of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds and ammonia, the limit values of which must no longer be exceeded from 2010. Furthermore, under the coordination of the Federal Ministry for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, the Federal Government has to prepare a programme for emission reduction and submit it to the European Commission. This action plan is intended to guarantee the roadmap to achieve our Kyoto objectives. On the other hand, the Ozone Directive introduces new thresholds and a new classification of information and warning for the population. Also new are the target values and long-term objectives in accordance with the Ozones Directive, for which compliance will be required. In addition, specific measures for the transport sector have been included in the novelle on the Immission Protection Act Air, because according to scientific studies, which have also been published in the “Austrian municipal newspaper”, transport is currently the main cause of the pollutant emissions and will most likely continue to be in the future. That is why it is important to counter this development with great emphasis – and in this context I would also like to mention the strikes yesterday. The Austrians have responded wisely and wisely to these strikes! Many have formed driving communities, others have switched to the bicycle or got into work on foot. As everyone could hear in the news yesterday, Vienna became Europe’s “bicycle capital. ” According to a survey, the respondents stated that they would want to abandon the car more and more in the future. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's positive! More often than not, a job laying down!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It is precisely this attitude that needs to be promoted! This would reduce traffic congestion, especially in urban areas, and thus reduce the risk of ozone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is also the only positive aspect of yesterday's political strike. We should use the parliamentary discussion to recognize the conservation of the natural composition of the air in its entirety. Legally, this law takes place in accordance with the European Directive. The health and well-being of people, but also the life of plants and animals, depend on whether we protect our air sufficiently from contamination. Our task is to protect the lives and health of Austrians and to fully support the modern environmental policy of our Federal Government. Mr. Federal Minister Pröll! On the basis of his excellent work, we have appointed your predecessor as the “Minister of Life” for all Austrians. Since you've succeeded him, I'll hand you this predicate! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Do we have to praise him? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] The effort and responsibility to achieve the Kyoto goal were in just as good hands with Willi Molterer as they will be with you. That is why I would like to agree with this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5601	The next speaker is Mr Steier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5620	Mr President. Mr Minister and Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to be able to dedicate my first speech in this House to a subject that is a very important elixir for all of us, namely air. In concrete terms, it is about the emission limit law air, the modification of the ozone law and the revision of the Immission Protection Act Air. My previous speakers have already given a detailed opinion on the essential contents of the air package. I would therefore like to focus on the following three points. First: In principle, we Socialists are in favour of the draft law. It essentially represents the implementation of EU directives and could contribute to improving the legal basis for air pollution. However, I use the conjunctive very consciously here, because some essential questions remain open. Only the future development will show whether the Federal Government is actually serious about its commitment to improving air quality and will take appropriate measures. One of these open questions concerns, for example, the national programme provided for in the Emissions MRL Air. The Minister for the Environment has a programme to ensure that the maximum emission levels for nitrogen oxide, sulphur dioxide, volatile organic compounds and ammonia can be met or even lowered by 2010. Interestingly, however, the air package does not specify the time at which this program must be completed. And this, although the interested public – saying: our citizens – should be informed about objectives and successes. It is only defined when the updating of this national programme must take place, i.e. until 1. ==References== The fact that we are talking about the date for the initial presentation is already awakening unpleasant associations in advance and is all the more surprising than, according to EU standards, such a national programme should have been drawn up at the end of 2002. Secondly, Mr Pröll spoke in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the fact that the dynamic development of transport poses a major problem in the context of climate protection. – Motorised road transport causes high external costs, which are incurred in the form of health and accident costs, but in particular in the case of environmental damage to society as a whole. If one takes the role of transport as an environmental pollution seriously, then in addition to classical issues such as CO2 and ozone, the issue of particulate emissions and fine dust would also be addressed. Especially in this area, the trend of stress has increased in recent years. Fine dusts in the air can cause respiratory, cardiovascular and circulatory diseases. Diesel engines for which the value of all the materials The number of cars in particular is constantly increasing, contributing significantly to air pollution. In large cities, diesel particles in combination with dust particles repeatedly cause health hazards. The use of new technologies, such as soot particles filters, and the intensification of exhaust gas limit values for particles could contribute to the discharge. The Federal Government has so far remained guilty of concrete initiatives on this issue. The more precise we will see whether, when and how the Federal Minister implements his announcement, we will schedule an initiative for diesel particulate filters. Thirdly, and I conclude by saying: In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Federal Minister has also declared that he expects positive effects on the environment from the lorry sector, starting from 1. ==References====External links== I and all Austrians also, provided that the truck toll is actually introduced. This introduction is already an “infinity story”. It was originally planned for 1998, but was moved x-time. Since all of us cannot realistically assume that the larger internal market in goods will decrease, but rather that more heavy transport is expected, it is high time to implement this measure. The effects would be more cost-truth in transport, but also more yield for our environment. We must address the forecast massive increase in truck transit traffic, particularly in Eastern Austria, by effective measures. Much heavy traffic may have to be shifted from road to rail so that our environment remains viable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, the many open issues of financing various projects of the General Transport Plan do not give rise to any hope for rapid and effective activities. In this context, I can remind you of a calculation by the Chamber of Labour that the loss of revenue from the non-introduction of the truck toll has been estimated at around €1.5 billion since 1998. If these funds had not been left aside so far, we would already be considerably further on the necessary loophole in the motorway network, especially in the development and improvement of the railway infrastructure. Finally, I would like to point out once again that we will agree with the SPÖ of this government proposal. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5709	I call Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5727	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Since I too can stand here for the first time today, I would also like to take the opportunity to introduce myself briefly. I'm a business consultant, 44 years old and I'm from Leoben. In this way, I believe, we have a good relationship with the subject of “good air”. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Married? Children?]] It's not been too long since the steel and iron industry in the Upper Styria was more famous for producing dirty air, and I can still remember the saying: “When the fireplaces smoke, the people in the Obersteiermark work!” [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Are you married? How many kids?]] If you come to the Obersteiermark today, you will see directly next to the steelworks beautifully developed urban centers and a wonderfully developed environment. Mr Bauer, I am right to say: In order to assess environmental policy and the results of environmental policy, we need to look at this over a further period of time. Today, in the Obersteiermark, we have the situation that there is a national park next to a steelworks, and I think that is the best evidence of a good environmental policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The right environmental policy can only take place with partners, and a key partner for good Austrian environmental policy are the countries. I would like to give you an example. The conversion of housing promotion in Styria has triggered a boom towards biomass heating, which is particularly useful in rural communities. Mrs Sima, where we still have a problem with the heating power plants, these are the medium-sized communities and in urban contexts. I'd like to invite you to the Obersteiermark once. Let's go to the cities from Mürzzuschlag to Jüdenburg! There are mayors everywhere who are not supposed to be foreign to you. Let's talk to them! Perhaps we can convince them not to promote gas connections, but to invest more in renewable energies and to use our own resources. There is a second aspect that I would like to introduce. I can tell you about this from my professional context. In my area of clients, relatively many companies are involved in environmental technology. There is an amazing dynamic in these business developments. There are a lot of jobs that I would like to emphasize, and the dynamics reminds me very much of those we had in the IT sector a few years ago. In contrast to the IT industry, however, I believe that in this area we are more focused on products and that universities are also more involved in process development and product development. An essential partner, one has to say, is the industry itself. If we look around today in the Obersteiermark – Mr Dobnigg knows that much better than I do; he is the works council in the VA steel – then we see that there have been great investments in environmental protection. I am thinking about the VA steel, but I am also thinking of Böhler-Uddeholm, and we can say quite proudly that the cleanest and most modern steel plants in the world are in Austria today, in the Obersteiermark! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'll finish. I don't think we should break this up. Austria is the environmental country number one, which has to be said very clearly. We should not break that and not criticize it to death. The goal is quite clear: The Kyoto targets are to be achieved. The measures – not only the planned ones, but also those already in implementation – must continue consistently. I am confident that the Ministry of Life is in good hands with Federal Minister Sepp Pröll and will accept this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5792	Next speaker is Mrs Scharer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5811	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I am new to the National Council and therefore new to the Environment Committee. I come from a tourist region, from the Europe sports region, from Pinzgau. Allow me to say something personal, something about my feelings, about my impressions at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment. I was very surprised that all the opposition parties' requests were more or less ignored, that the problems that will arise on us, for example, with the derelict links and especially in our tourist regions, were pushed aside. This gives me the impression – and I see this in the draft law now before me – that, although one reacts because there are EU regulations, it does not act. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Environmental policy, the issue of the environment seems to be more of a political margin at the moment. Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance, explained that more resources are being made available, but we are already looking forward to the areas in which we will find them. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Climate protection!]] Of course, the environmental problems are not so visible to people today. We have largely no more dirty lakes and rivers, the agglomerations and industrial centers are no longer surrounded by thick smog clouds, and even toxic waste can no longer be buried so easily, but for people, for nature, for our plants, these invisible dangers are very threatening. WHO makes the car exhausts responsible for around 2,400 deaths per year in Austria. There are 20 000 bronchitis patients in children and 40 000 asthma sufferers in adults, which is solely due to road pollution emissions. It must be borne in mind that the follow-up costs due to road transport damage alone in Austria amount to around €2.9 billion – and road traffic is increasing rapidly. With the introduction of the catalyst in the 1990s, very good successes have been achieved in Austria, but this has unfortunately brought about a resurgence of the development in the car industry. Remember that some 100 000 passenger cars are re-licensed in Austria each year, and due to the special financial support, two thirds of these are diesel cars. – The burden on soot particles in Austria is three times as high as in Switzerland, which is why measures are urgently needed in these areas. The high growth rates are also mentioned in road freight transport, for example. Within the last ten years, transport performance on the road has increased by almost 120 percent in Austria. In Salzburg, for example, truck transit traffic increased by 14 percent annually between 1988 and 2000. I think it is very important that we take appropriate measures. Time limits, time and space restrictions, night-trafficking bans and so on will not be enough to reduce pollution pollution. We are required to set more ambitious goals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is to say, the car industry must be required to create continuous technical conditions for less exhaust emissions from trucks and cars. In order to shift freight from road to rail, more cost-effective and, above all, faster means of transport must be created. In addition, individual transport relief must be granted in the rural areas in particular. We need a better-developed, better-organized public transport network in rural regions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We must have the courage to leave out of paths. We must try to clarify why public transport is so little accepted. At this point, a paradox at the end: Many, including colleagues here, are travelling by car to Salzburg and then by train to Vienna, because they are no longer able to reach the rural regions by public transport in the late evenings. We need attractive alternatives specifically in the rural areas that are important for tourism in order to protect the population, for the health of our people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These measures must now be put in place and not only when the EU draws our attention to them! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5878	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5897	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have heard the contribution of my colleague, Head at the beginning of this debate, and I must say that I cannot understand his praise for the Federal Government, for the two responsible ministers in any way, because these have basically simply only understood EU directives – and this with half-yearly delay. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: A good contribution!]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] So what should be so special about this performance, I really wonder. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The real challenge for the current Minister for the Environment or Agriculture will only be, ladies and gentlemen, if we reduce the level of information with this government template, because then there is a new framework, and this new framework will require a number of further measures. One of these measures – which I have already read in the Federal proposal – should be the introduction of the most pollutant fuels with 1. ==References== – I hear the message well, ladies and gentlemen, I alone lack faith. I can't imagine that this is really comprehensive with 1. ==References====External links== But even if it succeeds, I have to say: A swallow doesn't make any spring yet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Summer!]] Okay, summer. Whether we are still experiencing this in view of the ozone pollution that is coming upon us, we will see it first. Ladies and gentlemen! There are already regions which have such a high ozone concentration during the hot season that they are not even approved of the establishment of new industrial plants; I am thinking in particular of the Unterinntal. It is unfortunate that at a time when this would have been possible, namely during the last legislative period, no further measures have been put in place to reduce precursor substances – not you, but your predecessor; he is sitting here, ladies and gentlemen – although the existing ozone law would have been able to do so. [[in the direction of the Federal Minister of State, Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] [[on abg. May. Show more "Molder"]] – So much for the government template. Now we have a few comments on the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which I did not like at all. I am very sorry that the Greens' request to eliminate certain agricultural specialities in environmental protection has unfortunately been postponed. The SP request, in particular by Mr Sima, on the issue of the introduction of disposable gates or disposable charges in order to avoid more packaging waste in the future, was also postponed to the long-term bank. Mr Scheuch asked us about the liberties, which is why we prefer to reject them rather than postpone them. – A delay is even worse, because it means that the issue will not be on the agenda in any case, or only when it may not be up-to-date. The government parties understand to observe this. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, from the Government parties: How long do you want to watch? So long until we sink into the trash in Austria? – I will certainly not put up with the patience needed for this, nor my group, nor, as I believe, the population the less! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another request from the Socialist Group was the increase in the EuratoM credit framework. As you all know, it's planned to increase from €4 billion to €6 billion. These means, as we know from Brussels too, ladies and gentlemen, should not close unsafe reactors, as it would actually be in our minds, but they are expected to rehabilitate unsafe reactors whose life span will be extended, and it is preferable to build new reactors in the eastern countries of Europe. – We cannot agree with that! Therefore, together with you and the smaller opposition party of the Federal Government, we wanted to give the clear mandate not to agree to this increase in Brussels. Why has this request been postponed? Do we want to talk about it only when everything has already been decided and the implementation takes place in the form that we do not want it to be? .I think, ladies and gentlemen, we should put an end to this unsituation of the ban, which is now increasingly taking place in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's talk about these issues in plenary, you can't prevent it anyway! I think that your approach, especially in Parliament, is to address issues that you are not talking about as government parties, but which you only observe or want to see, democracy policy is very, very worrying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5985	There is no further statement of words to this effect. That concludes the debate. We shall vote on the draft law and on the motion for a resolution tabled. First of all, I shall vote on the draft law and the title and entry into 66 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at second reading, give their consent to this draft law to give a sign. . I note that the submission in 66 of the supplements was unanimously adopted at second reading. That is why we shall immediately come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to a sign. – I note that there is also unanimity at third reading. That is why the proposal has been adopted. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, on the inadequate financing of measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – The request did not find the majority. He is therefore rejected. That is what we have done with this item on the agenda. 3rd. Point Report by the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the "basic of a modern Austrian Federal Animal Protection Act" (54 and 54 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6056	We're coming to 3. Agenda item. We are going into the debate immediately. As the first pro-redner, Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer is speaking. The clock is set to 12 minutes if desired. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6080	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We're on the 10th. April here in this hall with more than 100 participants throughout the day dealing with the topic of animal protection. From 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. there was an extremely interesting, in-depth and also diverse work on the topic of animal protection. I was very pleased to be able to work on such an interesting matter in this pleasant, constructive climate here in this room. It was stated that animal protection, as we all know, is indeed a matter of heart to many people. I think that it is our duty to deal with this issue carefully, and I wish and hope that we will not be able to fall into polemics and mutual debt allocations here. In view of the positive development of the However, I assume that the further negotiations will be as good as possible. Together with all the political groups, including colleagues from the opposition, we want to create a modern Federal Animal Protection Act. We want a reasonable and, above all, an administrative law, and – I said it to the Committee of Inquiry at the time, I say it again today; we stand for it – we want animal-friendly and sustainable animal husbandry, ladies and gentlemen! Animal welfare is also more and more a topic in the European Union. It would, of course, also be a very strong signal for animal protection, also a very strong signal for Austria's commitment if we were to create a common procedure for a Federal Animal Protection Act. I am grasping out some of the content that has been discussed by this committee of inquiry, such as the question of federal competence in animal welfare. Professor Raschauer has given very detailed information on how federal animal protection can be enshrined in the Constitution, starting from Articles 10, 11 or 12 to their own constitutional provisions. Article 10 for example means that legislation and enforcement are federal, Article 11 – as you all know – means: Community law, EC internal market, EC internal market, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of We are not determined on this matter. The only restriction I want to make is that we cannot imagine making an article-10 matter out of it. I think Article 11 or any other way would be a good course for us. Another idea I would like to take up, which I also liked very well, came from Director Pechlaner, namely the idea of the Animal Protection Advisory Council. I think that's good for you. If we want to do something for animals and don't want to get involved in each other's blockades, we may be going on here. That would be a big concern for us. The third point I would like to draw up is the area of pet farming, namely a labelling requirement, especially for dogs, but it can also apply to cats. An expert who, above all, has declared himself responsible for pet farming has made that point to us. We have seen this as a possible solution, if you remember, in previous negotiations, when it came to the issue of dangerous dogs. I think that is a very constructive proposal. There was, of course, a wealth of further suggestions. I think – there were also the colleagues of the resorts present – that these will be included in the legislative discussions. They will also be to be observed and assessed in the preparation of the federal law. It was quite clear where the tenor pointed at the overall event. This working group from representatives of all the Federal Ministries involved has already started its work and is preparing a government template. The results are expected to be submitted to us in autumn 2003, and I assume that we will then have an in-depth debate on this. We have tried to obtain the approval of the opposition groups for a resolution. Unfortunately, we did not succeed. I'm still bringing him in. I would like to explain him in his key points and ask Mr President to present this motion for a resolution within the meaning of § 55 para. 3 in conjunction with § 53 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure to be duplicated and also to ensure distribution. The key points are as follows: We welcome the establishment of the working group in the Federal Chancellery with the involvement of all relevant departments and – that is important to us – the federal states. We request that this working group send the National Council a first proposal in the form of a government proposal by autumn 2003 and that a decision be taken in autumn 2004. We wish that the Federal Animal Protection Act should cover all animals that are kept by humans, i.e. pet animals and farm animals, as well as other animals that are kept by humans, such as companion animals, sports animals, letter pigeons et cetera. Animal husbandry should also be recorded in zoos, zoos and in circuses as well as in commercial animal husbandry. The aim is to ensure clear federal legislation for a uniform and efficient implementation at national level in order to ensure implementation in accordance with EU law. The codification of the Federal Animal Protection Act should also take particular account of animal health, consumer protection and economic proportionality. We also want incentives and investment support for animal-friendly attitudes. In order to prevent violations – and this is also an important point – of animal welfare legislation, existing control systems must be strengthened and improved. However, we do not want any additional bureaucratic institutions in the sense of administrative reform, but it is our concern to increase the awareness of responsibility of the animal owners, especially through training measures and information campaigns. It is also essential that the construction of the Federal Animal Protection Act should be such that the transposition of EU law into national law can be done as quickly and without delay as possible. . As far as the core points of this motion for a resolution are concerned. I am extremely sorry, as I have said, that the opposition groups have not been able to agree. At this point I would like to make an appeal to all colleagues from the opposition parties: that we together try to work in a solution-oriented way so that we can work in such a way that everyone can participate. I do not think anything about it at all – I am also trying to ensure that you do not do so – to set up demands that overdo many people involved. But just as I know you, Mrs. Sima, I can say you're certainly not the guy who's going to do that. Animal welfare is a major concern for all of us. When we block one another, the animals and also the people who live with and from them have nothing of it at all. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6177	The motion for a resolution concerning the preparation and transmission of a Government document concerning a Federal Animal Protection Act to the National Council is properly submitted, is duplicated and then voted. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Sima. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6288	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, I am well aware of your appeal, but the word “blocking” is very different. There is only one political group that has been blocking animal welfare in this House for many, many years, and that is your group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Grill: Don't look into the past! Look into the future!]] . I look to the future, Mr colleague, but the problem is that what we have experienced in the past in the field of animal welfare was really so depressing that I do not have very great hopes for the future that we will really do something here. [[Abg. Grill: You're talking about the past all the time! You're still too young to talk about the past!]] – I think you are still speaking, then you can talk a little bit about the future as you imagine it. [[Abg. Grill: Yes, that's it!]] Can we agree on that now? I have been looking up in preparation for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – a key element in the past – as many hearings, surveys, committees, subcommittees, debates on animal protection in this House have already been held, and I can tell you that the list has been very, very long. – But what we still do not have is a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act. I really do not understand why we still have to discuss and why this law still does not exist. [[Abg. Grill: But now it's coming!]] – Yes, my colleague, you have been telling us this for a long time. I'm waiting for it to come. But I want to see it first before I really enjoy it. On the contrary! The fragmentation of animal welfare legislation in countless federal and state laws continues to progress, becoming more and more detailed. The list of current laws and regulations relating to animal welfare has already been six pages long, but these are really just the headings. Due to this inconsistency and inconsistency of regulations, Austria is currently very far away from modern animal protection. The question is therefore: Why is there still no federal animal protection law? We have, among other things, tried to discuss this in this survey. I've already said it in the first place: The creation of a corresponding law has failed the stubborn resistance of a party. We have long had the absurd situation that there would have been a clear majority in this House for a federal animal protection law, but it has been prevented by a party. Shortly before the elections, there was a swing in the ÖVP, which I was very pleased to note, but I am, honestly, still a little skeptical about actual implementation. My scepticism is underpinned by the fact that there is no proposal from the government parties so far. The election took place last year, now a few months have passed, but there is not even such a thing as a basis for discussion from your side. For several years now there has been a very useful proposal from SPÖ and Greens, as I believe, which we have discussed with many experts and animal welfare organisations. There was a subcommittee. – It’s a very long story that already writes the topic “Animal Protection”. [[Abg. Grill: Except for spices, nothing has been done!]] So far, you have not even been willing to discuss it with us; apart from this committee of inquiry. It was not even possible to set dates for meetings of this Subcommittee. That is why I would really like to know: When will there be a government proposal? Your request – and this is also a reason why we have not been able to accept this request – states that a working group will be set up. It's kind of familiar to me: If I don't remember, I'll start a working group. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not a group!]] This election promise was given in September or October last year, and now we have May. Now in May, do you think you're setting up a working group that's going to meet now, and it's supposed to be presenting something in the autumn?- Oh, my God! I think that's really a very tough announcement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Obviously, there are two speeds for this federal government. When it comes to shortening pensions, present a monkey-like speed. The cuts in this area have gone rapidly, but in the case of animal welfare you have to wait until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. – That's the problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] To be honest, I have little confidence in the fact that in autumn there will actually be a government template – I am of course willing to let myself be surprised – and that is also the reason why we cannot accept this request. We will make our own request, because we believe that at least by the end of June a government template should be on the table. You have really had enough time to prepare for this issue. I am not talking about the five or six years that we have already debated, but only since the last election have really gone a lot of months. On other issues, you will also be able to submit templates at the record pace – without consideration and I do not know what – and to decide in Parliament. Only when it comes to animal welfare will it take so long? If you continue in your government work, we probably have new elections before there is a government proposal on animal welfare. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You'd like that!]] For us, it is important that there is a federal animal protection law with high standards and that this Federal Animal Protection Act is not used to somehow disregard the standards already available in individual federal states. Our proposal, which you already know, because, as has been said, it has been in place for three years, has some key points, particularly in the field of farm animals. Our concept is to introduce an animal justice index – developed by scientists – because this is the best way to determine how animals are treated, especially in the field of farm animals. It focuses on the animal's well-being, there are some parameters and factors – stable climate, motion possibilities, social contacts, soil quality, care intensity; all this was developed by scientists from the BOKU – and we think it's a very good concept. There is a point system... – Mr Wittauer, I am still waiting for the proposal of the government parties. [[Abg. Wittauer: If you only need to ask the farmers, they know better!]] If he's better and stricter, we'd be happy to join. Our proposal as a basis for discussion has been on the table for a long time, we are just waiting for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The animal justice index works through a point system: It is necessary to achieve a minimum number of points in order to keep animals. I think that's a very good concept. A second very important point for us is the Animal Procuratorate. We were very sad at the fact that so much was rejected by the ÖVP in the survey. I believe that this model has been very well established in the field of environmental prosecution and that it is also a good example model, which, as you can see, offers many citizens the opportunity to solve some of their problems with environmental lawyers who also work very closely with the relevant national councils. I never fully understand why an animal attorneyship is so much rejected. The argument was put forward: Well, the establishment of an attorney's office means mistrust. - I don't understand. I would see it as a positive and massive support to animal welfare activities and also to the relevant national councils. So I can't quite understand why you're so locked up with it. We would also like an animal welfare advisory board to advise the competent member of the government. I think that would also be a very important point. So these are the most important points from our request, which you already know, as has been said. I believe that after the long years of waiting it is now really time to finally put concrete actions. One has also seen relatively clearly in the survey, and it has always been said that not only our patience, but also the patience of the animal welfare organizations is slowly approaching an end when we discuss this subject much longer. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6489	Mrs Mag. Sima has just tabled a motion for a resolution. Sima, Mag. Weinzinger is sufficiently supported, is under negotiation and will be voting. Mr Wittauer has now come to speak. The clock is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6511	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The motion for a resolution we have tabled today underlines the objective of the animal welfare survey. That is why we welcome this initiative, because at the animal welfare survey at that time we were all surprised by the constructive dialogue climate that existed between all participants. Each of them saw the objective of finally implementing a uniform animal welfare system. law is coming. This is not just a matter of the four parliamentary groups, but of all the layers of our society. The aim is to make a clear commitment to sustainable, animal-friendly and quality-oriented animal husbandry, as we have always called for, with a targeted support aimed at animal welfare and, of course, also at environmental protection. In our agriculture, the attitude of farmed animals does not exclude animal welfare. I know what I'm talking about. I'm a farmer and I'm trying to put it into practice today. As far as the economy of our agriculture is concerned, the same conditions of competition in Europe are necessary in order to survive. In order to underline the importance of our agriculture, I would like to ask all political groups to implement a uniform animal welfare law in common work – for the benefit of our people and for the benefit of our animals. It is also important that, when we create laws, measures are put in place for local agriculture and especially for small-structured agriculture, that they are supported and that there should be support or investment support for these areas. A uniform animal welfare law will further improve consumer protection, food safety and food quality. The consistent implementation and further development of animal welfare should not only be an Austrian objective, but also have a role model across Europe with a view to establishing a single European animal welfare law or a uniformly high standard. Now we have the opportunity to send a signal in Austria that might make it easier for Europe to take animal welfare seriously and to work towards a common animal welfare law across Europe. The next few months will be crucial for the preparation of an animal welfare law, which also deserves the name “Animal Protection Act”. The working group, which is used to develop this law, involves not only the individual ministries but also the countries. At my request, all political groups will be involved, and that will be implemented. The Federal Animal Protection Act is intended to cover all animals kept by humans: Pets, farm animals, accompanying animals, sports animals, also animals in zoos, zoos and in the field of commercial animal husbandry. It will also be important to address animal health and consumer protection issues. Economics will also be a question that we must address in this context. All of this has been mentioned and taken into account in our motion for a resolution. Investment support for animal-friendly forms of attitudes, training, even in kindergartens and schools, should support the measures provided for in the law. Control by the various authorities must also be more efficient and better. It is important that this control and implementation remain in the federal states. I would also suggest, along with this, that difficult animal torture should be subject to more severe punishment. I can't repeat it often enough: Animals are not things, not things that are pushed back and forth, but animals are living beings with feelings that need our protection. I also welcome the clear timing of this proposal. By autumn 2003 there will be a government template with which the Committees should be able to employ sufficient resources. The hope has never been so great that an objective of implementing this national animal welfare law in 2004, i.e. achieving its decision here in the National Council, can be achieved together. I know that the opposition – and I am now returning to you, Mrs Sima – is apparently not satisfied with the time frame. Now, as you have said, we have been working for six years and trying to implement something in this regard – and now we have to fail to provide a time frame of three, four months to really discuss a animal welfare law?- Oh, my God! You too know very well: We need a constitutional majority. And now, at once, this project is boycotted by your group? At least that's how I see it. – This is not the right way! My personal wish is that there should be a presentation in 2003 and that the implementation should take place in 2004. These criteria will be met. I am therefore surprised that you are now rejecting the motion for a resolution we have tabled. If I see your request, which you formulated before, then I note that you are first addressing the ÖVP which has blocked such a law for six years. “Leider lies to this day... no design... before”, that's what it says. That's where I ask myself again: You know how laws come about, and that, especially if there is a need for changes in the Constitution, and if various ministries and countries are involved – at the present time animal welfare at national level is regulated – it is not to be done within a few weeks, but it simply takes some time. And I can guarantee you that this proposal will actually be available in 2003. If, as stated earlier, a law requires a constitutional majority, then this time will also be necessary to draw up a law. And we all need political groups to do that, and we need the Social Democrats to do so. I can also guarantee that under our vice Chancellor's head, the liberals have always fought for an animal welfare law. If the Social Democrats are so loose from the stool today, I can remind you: Six years ago, we were not in the government, but it was the social democrats who were in the government – and they did not implement such a law, even though the liberals always demanded it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] And now, at once, it's supposed to fail again in formal things! Again, social democracy is saying: We need an animal welfare law, it is important and it should finally be implemented! – You have failed by the Social Democrats, we are putting it into practice. And now all at once, what we want to do will be blocked from your side again! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. One.]] That's where I've got to say: If this is the policy that determines the future of our country, I am glad that you are not in the government, but that we are the government parties! And we will also put this animal welfare law in such a way that the population will feel it as a great throw and as a good law. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! As a Member of Parliament, to whom animal welfare is very important, as one can hear again and again, I ask or wish we could find ourselves on the path of consensus. We are working together on this important law so that we will actually come to a resolution in 2004 and implement this law! I'd like to. I and my colleagues from the Freedom Party will contribute to this. I guarantee you: This government with Vice-Chancellor's head will also present this pace with this working group. I would therefore like us, when we talk about animal welfare next time, to take account of the practical implementation of the directive. and discuss the content of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6650	The next speaker is Mrs Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6668	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! The humanity of a society can be read by the way they deal with others, which is meant to be philosophical, i.e. with what does not belong to their own class, caste, group, whatever you want to call it. In the present case, one can say with fug and right – and that is what several experts have said at the survey –: The humanity of society can be read by the way we deal with the animals, whether we grant them the right to life that is fair and fair to animals. Whether or not to choose the term “desirable ” is then a matter of taste. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, it's not taste! ... a philosophical problem!]] The fact that we have a number of misunderstandings today is likely to be known. While I am still guessing whether today's statement by the Minister for Finance "Way with the bacon!" was a call for the elimination of the abuses in pig farming, there are, at least, very clear needs to ensure efficient and uniform animal welfare. [[Abg. Head: He wasn't good!]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Do you take this claim back?]] Just to remember: We currently have 10 laws, 36 regulations, 600 paragraphs – if you can't even distinguish between a claim and a consideration that I can distinguish with an open question mark, I don't think I'm causing anything to take back! – and distributed a competence to eight ministries. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Take the claim back, Mrs. Colleague?]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: No,... a claim!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... an understatement! That's typical!]] That is absolutely unsatisfying! It was also quite clear in the survey that there were a whole series of common objectives and common knowledge as to what it needed: It needs animal protection in the constitutional order. There is a need for a clear representation of interests in the protection of animals, which could be regulated, for example, by an attorney's office, on the possibility of an association complaint. There is a need for clear rules on animal husbandry in all areas, both agricultural and non-agricultural, and so on. I am therefore more than surprised by the interpretation I have now heard from Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, but also from Mr Wittauer, which they understand by consensus or by means of 'all should cooperate'. [[Abg. Steibl: That's a bad woman! She spoke well!]] We have received a motion for a resolution on which the Greens have tried to contribute their ideas. This proposal contains a number of things that are absolutely necessary, but also others that we would have liked to discuss. But the message was: No room for negotiation – we don't even talk about it. Then to say that this is the invitation to deal with the matter together, to work together, to discuss together, I think it is a slight case of cynicism. That it is said at the same time: As a punishment for or as a consequence of the opposition's refusal to accept and agree to an application submitted by the government on point and by letter, it should now no longer be represented in the Working Group which advises on the Animal Protection Act! – by the way, no more than the representatives of the animal welfare people’s desire – I also do not regard it as an invitation to cooperate. If you imagine, under cooperation, that the opposition says: Yes, thanks, we don't even change a comma, we take everything as it is!, then you're clearly on the wood road. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A few comments on the content of the motion for a resolution: It is clearly thought of – and that was already in the context of the survey – that there should be no animal prosecution. [[Abg. Wittauer: Who says that?]] You mentioned that the climate in the Enquete Commission was very constructive, and I think that was very typical of the whole discussion: Down here in the plenary room, the climate was very constructive – partly because the ÖVP contained all the statements and specifications – but already at the gallery – and I followed the entire survey from the beginning to the end on the gallery – the climate was in the corner where I was sitting, and there were obviously some representatives of the agricultural chambers, no longer quite uncontroversial to formulate it carefully. That is, in the background, things look very different. There is massive resistance to addressing things that have long been due – both in the interests of animal welfare and in the interests of consumer protection as well as in the interest of long-term planning and investment protection for farmers. As an example, I call laying hens: If you want to invest properly as farmers, I cannot advise anyone to enter the next generation of cage systems now because the relevant provisions will soon be renewed in the EU. The only wise, economic smart thing to do is get out of cagery. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you want to take animal welfare seriously, you need to set up a control facility and a possibility to request the rights of animal welfare. This is not because you confess to it on paper, but it also requires an implementation facility. [[Abg. Wittauer: This requires a bill!]] I do not understand why, although one considers environmental lawyers to be successful, at the same time, one can take the view from the outset that there should not be an animal prosecution! [[Abg. Wittauer: Who says that?]] Why do you treat animal welfare differently at the implementation level than you treat environmental protection? – You have to explain that once! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unless you do not pay attention to what is wise in the sense of the matter, namely, in the sense of animal protection, you listen more to lobbyists from interests which articulate their legitimate interests, but which therefore do not have to be at the heart of an animal welfare law for a long time. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: This is a submission, Mrs. Colleague!]] To say only, Mr Wittauer: We want an animal welfare law!, it's too short. Rather, it must mean: We want an animal welfare law which a) deserves that name and b) sets out clear implementation-oriented guidelines. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: In my speech I said all this clearly!]] And: We want all those who have a right to do so and who have an interest in it. Therefore, I would expect that we will soon get a government paper on the table. It has already been pointed out by Mr Sima: You can quickly put on the table one of the largest pension reforms in the Second Republic, but you can't do it – even though you've been listening to the opinions of experts for years – to put on the table a proposal for an animal welfare law! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] After all, they manage to set up a working group. I am excited whether you can also invite those people who have been very committed for years and, in part, even volunteering for animal welfare and who have successfully carried out a popular animal welfare desire. I can remind you: We are not moving here in an empty space, but we have a massively supported popular desire that would never have been worked out in any point. We have an obligation to take up this popular desire and to lay down its contents in the law. Finally, we also have a responsibility: a responsibility not only to the people who signed the popular desire, but also to the animals we use that we hold in our care and in their attitude we must measure our humanity. I therefore ask you to: Let's finally do it – at last! - Nails with heads! Let us make an animal welfare law that sets out a serious animal protection that moves on a modern standard, which can be seen in the EU, which keeps the levels of the federal states or sets them at a uniform level – and does not evade down as this is likely to be an intention on your part – and let experts and animal protectionists talk together and not just agricultural stakeholders! [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: Another understatement!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6914	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6951	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The last speech also showed us the commitment with which very personal commitment is being made to positions in this matter. It is a sensitive and very emotional matter. I think we are doing well to keep our heads cool here on the government bank, too, in order to solve this problem that moves us so much. As you know, before the last National Council elections, the Federal Chancellor has foreseen the implementation of a federal animal welfare law, and this claim has also been found in the Federal Government's work programme. The National Council has declared this to be a priority and has made it a priority over the past few months, starting from the proposal made by Mr Schüssel, Mr Khol and Mr Grillitsch as the basis for the initiative before the formation of the Federal Government. Thank the honourable Member for this. Within the framework of the Federal Ministerial Law Novelle 2003, the elaboration of the Federal Unity of Animal Protection Act was assigned competently to the BKA, in agreement with the professionally entrusted Federal Ministries. This takes into account and emphasizes the increased coordination competence of the Federal Chancellery – also with regard to the countries. The present results of the Committee of Inquiry form a substantial basis for the subsequent preparation of a government proposal. The target date for this Federal Animal Protection Act is 2004. The following points will be taken into account in the Government template: Firstly, the constitutional basis for a federal animal welfare law under the supervision of Article 11 B-VG. That is, the legislation will be federal, the execution will remain state-owned. Secondly, The state of legal fragmentation and inconsistency should be put to an end with the new federal uniform law. We all know that there are currently ten national animal welfare laws in this area, about 35 implementing regulations and two country agreements in accordance with Article 15a. In the future, we will have a single federal regime, which will of course also take into account the requirements laid down by European law. Thirdly, The exact contents of the federal animal welfare law will still be clarified. We are aware that there are still largely divergent views in this respect, as confirmed by both the Committee of Inquiry and today's debate. Animal welfare in Austria already has a high standard today, and I would like to stress that these standards are already at national level today. are also to be included in the Federal Animal Protection Act. However, there should be further improvements where this serves Austrian consumers, Austrian agriculture and food safety in our country. It is the declared aim of the Federal Government to lead the way in animal welfare within the EU. In this sense, I am confident that, despite the partly divergent differences that remain, it will ultimately succeed in adopting a high-quality federal animal welfare law here in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7002	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. The clock is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7020	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a clear commitment to animal welfare in Austria, a comprehensive commitment with a broad social consensus. I was deeply impressed by the constructive conversation climate on the occasion of the animal protection survey. After Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel took the initiative before the last election and announced the creation of a Federal Animal Protection Act, we then took on 20th. In December, when the National Council was formed, an application was filed jointly for a federal animal welfare law. And then it was also us, the ÖVP under Wolfgang Schüssel, who took the initiative to carry out an animal welfare survey, to say that clearly. [[Abg. Grade: Six years too late!]] Not always look back, but look into the future, rather Heinz Gradwelt! That would do you well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I am disappointed, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the Greens, if I have to see how you act here today and claim that there are errors in the pig sector, and that there are flat-rate claims in the area. Then you'll call these abuses if there's them! Then you have the courage to mention these abuses here instead of carrying out lump-sum convictions that have neither hand nor foot! I'm asking you to do this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Turn away from this polemic party policy, as you try to re-operate it, because you know that the skin and the confidence of the population swim away from it. [[Abg. Oils: Please? – The only one who polemizes are you!]] Return to a constructive climate, because it is ultimately – and this is the highest bid, even for us – about consumer protection! Here, claiming that people dealing with animals are from the outset animal torture – sometimes because of the representations, I have the impression that everywhere, whether in farming or in pet farming, only animal tortures are at work, ladies and gentlemen – can not be the way in which we establish a common federal animal welfare law! [[Call the SPÖ: No one says that!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Who said that, Mr Grillitsch?]] [[Abg. Binder: Is this polemics now, Mr. Colleague?]] I have not been in the National Council for a very long time, but I also know one thing, Mrs Sima: It is probably much easier to amend a federal law in the sense of a pension reform than to establish nine different national animal protection laws in federal competence. This is probably much more difficult to change than a federal law, and I therefore believe that the comparison you brought here is really a worse one and not a good one. I therefore have the impression, quite openly, that you have no interest at all in the condition of a federal uniform animal welfare law for electoral reasons. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Return, work with us! We have clearly demonstrated competences: pet farming, farm animal husbandry, zoo animals, demonstrations and the like. If we continue to do so, we will also have a corresponding legislative text in the next few weeks and months, until autumn or winter. I also say quite openly: A federal uniform animal welfare law can not only result in additional costs and red tape being incurred, just as this is partly expressed, especially in the SPÖ's proposal. Therefore: Let us return to this consensus, to this dialogue as we started it with the animal welfare survey! Then I am confident that we will soon have a federal animal welfare law.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7128	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7147	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Why Mr Grillitsch is still shaken by the election fever, that remains closed to me and is not my case either. [[Abg. Grillitsch:... that you come back from the election fiancée! We've seen the election go out anyway!]] I would rather go back to the time before the last National Council elections. Mr Grillitsch, there were two particularly outstanding announcements by Federal Chancellor Schüssel: first, that an economic platform is financing the interception hunters, and second, that a Federal Animal Protection Act is finally coming. In the meantime, Mr Scheibner, we know how the business platform is, because there is a federal law on the repurchasing of airspace surveillance aircraft, according to which the Federal Minister of Finance is simply responsible for financing. [[Abg. Wittauer: We don't have a interception debate now! We're talking about the animal welfare law now!]] And with that, the cat is out of the bag. [[Abg. Scheibner:... what this has to do with the Animal Protection Act?]] There will be massive cuts in employees' pensions, brutal, reckless and unfair. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: On the matter!]] – So much for the first announcement of the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: On the matter!]] To the second announcement – and this is really the last –: You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, today have the forehead to present a resolution for a Federal Animal Protection Act, which will postpone it to 2004. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's not true at all!]] [[Call the ÖVP:2003!]] Mrs. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer has specified and said that autumn 2004 should be it. Mr Morak, State Secretary, says that 2004 is a target. – What you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties are doing here is enormous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Grillitsch! It is white cynicism if you say that the ÖVP had taken the initiative, because – and I know what I am talking about, because I was the chairman of the Subcommittee – you have prevented only the smallest parliamentary consultation year after year. At the time, Clubobmann and current President Khol were particularly prominent in this context. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I remind you: ==References====External links== A meeting was agreed on September 2000, but two days later the then ÖVP Klubobmann Khol prevented the date in the presidential. If you look a little bit into the basket, sometimes it makes you look deep. “Hohes Haus von innen” in the “Kronen Zeitung” of the 16th century. February 2003: This is about the Laudatio for Mr. Klubdirector Zägernitz, and that is what it says: In addition, spinning, fire brigades were: Wolfgang Schüssel had announced a federal animal welfare law in the campaign. In the late evening before the first National Council meeting in December, Andreas Khol called his club director and wanted to formulate the law for the next morning. “I had to drive up the experts at night,” says Zägernitz. Where's this paper, where's the design? Why don't you submit this paper, ladies and gentlemen, which Khol supposedly commissioned some night after the National Council elections? [[Abg. Wittauer: Because we want a broad consensus!]] [[Further calls.]] To your call, my dear colleague. [[Abg. Wittauer: You refused to go to this working group...!]] ==References====External links== November 2001 said that we need a Federal Animal Protection Act – in 2001! [[Abg. Wittauer: How many suggestions do you need yet?]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: We're doing it now! We'll do it anyway!]] ==References== In November 2001, Erwin Pröll said: Animal welfare is against politics! – You're talking about 2004, Pröll of 2001. [[Abg. Scheibner: Come on!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You haven't brought anything together for 30 years!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor, on 24 February. December 2001: not half a thing. Sozialminister – back then – Herbert Haupt doesn't like an Alibi Federal Animal Protection Act. I'll get you together. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2000, ÖVP and FPÖ approved a single formal meeting. In 2001, ÖVP and FPÖ approved a single formal meeting again. In 2002, the Federal Chancellor's election campaign was held, a hearing in 2003, and the year 2004 is a target date for the Secretary of State. - That's incredible! What you're doing here is just immense. [[Abg. Wittauer: Negotiating in the Committees 2003 will also be implemented!]] The ÖVP and FPÖ programme is clear: first of all: a marketing tag before the national elections to catch votes; second: Tow, delay, blockade; third: behind the scenes is long considered what method there is to achieve further support for agriculture under the cover of animal protection; fourthly, a advertising campaign will be planned – and the ÖVP will be celebrated at the expense of taxpayers as an animal welfare party. [[Abg. Scheibner: What did you do in 30 years of your government participation in animal welfare?]] [[Abg. Wittauer: This is probably an understatement...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! For this program you want to implement here, the voters and voters will present the invoice – this day will come.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7424	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7462	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The debt allocations made here in the discussion between ÖVP and SPÖ are for me, I must say, actually exemplary for a very dubious past treatment in the House. For it is relatively wretched to me, I honestly say whether it has never brought the SPÖ as a government together or whether the ÖVP has blocked for years. But I think it's time to really change something here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is no doubt that it was not the SPÖ that changed something in the time of its decades of government or government participation – except for the bad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of SPÖ) 30 years you have brought nothing together!]] It is also clear to me that it was not a chancellor's bowl that opened up this law. It is clear to me that it was our vice chancellor that it was Herbert Haupt, who demanded this federal animal welfare law and also, ladies and gentlemen, declared a coalition issue. [[Complaints with the liberals]] In the coalition negotiations, Vice Chancellor Herbert Haupt called for it to be decided and implemented. My dear colleagues from the SPÖ! I hate to quote, so that I don't make a mistake like your colleague, who confused the spring with the summer, but believe me one thing: He who screams isn't right! – It’s a fact: He who screams isn't right. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We should now come back to the Enquete Commission. I myself had the honour of holding the presidency for an hour at this meeting, and I can confirm the statements made by my previous speakers: It was a controversial, interesting and certainly productive discussion. But it was also a discussion – this I would like to mention here again – in which some of it was shot over the target. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That's it?]] I believe that some cannons are being shot here, and I can only take two or three things out. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: When animal protection is not shot!]] - Okay, Mrs. Colleague. For example, Mrs. Dr. Licek said that the stress of aquarium fish is no longer portable. – Please don’t be angry with me, but I have to start thinking. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: A fish is also a cattle!]] When we discuss the stress of aquarium fish at a time when we really have other problems, I don't know if we're on the right path. Mr Buchner, who was nominated by the “Four Pfoten”, criticized the peasants – in a massive way – and those of you who were not present can read this – he said that we only put economic interests in the foreground. – No, it’s about our profession! Farmers have to think economically, otherwise Mr Buchner will have to explain to me what he will do with the more than 200 000 farmers, whether he will then hire them at “Four Pfoten” or whether, as the only way out, they may be hired by Mr Vergestnich as farmers’ accordors in order to change the country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The resistance is already strike again!]] Let us be honest – I am now the fifth or sixth speaker –: They all want the same thing. Everyone wants this law, everyone wants these changes, one more intense, the other less; the problems are intertwined here. I mean, we should work now and create standards. I was also concerned about this subject in my virgin speech and I already said at the time: I think it is unfair to bring down the laws of the individual countries. I am convinced that in the individual Länder we have good laws on animal welfare, that no tohuwabohu exists, so that no one knows about any more regulations or drafts. I mean, there are good regulations, and we must now go about unifying the whole thing. We should also remember, ladies and gentlemen, and must never forget that someone has to pay. If, in this context, I should like to refer to agriculture again: Of course, it is easy to demand column floors, the attachment, the cage holding – we forbid everything, okay, but anyone has to pay for it. The fact is, however, that, if we stay with the laying hens, over 80 percent of the eggs purchased come out of cagery, there are a lot of market studies that the opposition colleagues also know about. Even if you double the other offer, people would still buy the cheap eggs from cagekeeping! I warn against being more papal than the Pope in this discussion. What are our farmers doing in the meantime when the EU prohibits it from 2012 and until then the eggs come from Slovenia, Hungary or any other EU country or future EU country? We will need to be careful in this regard, and we will also need to be careful as consumers – and we are all consumers – that we do not preach water here and drink wine. I therefore call on all of you to make a real contribution to getting a good and fair law quickly. Mrs Mag. Weinzinger, I think, has put it so aptly into the calculation: It calls on the Government and the Government Parties to involve the other organisations, NGOs and the like. I have to tell you the truth, after I've listened to you here: I'm really glad you're not in government! Because it can't be... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Weinzinger.]] Mrs Colleague, it cannot be that we invite everyone who is concerned at every legislative act. If you had government responsibility, we would probably have to invite all the football clubs in Austria to discuss the next item on the agenda where we are talking about a sports law. – It can't be! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are elected mandates, and we are sent here by our parties and voters to make and decide laws. We should, of course, try to represent our own circle well, but in the final effect it is up to us. In conclusion: If – and I emphasize: if – at some point the all too extreme left lobbyists of a very massive animal welfare law should create it to Parliament or perhaps even to the government, then they can change the laws according to their opinion. As long as we are democratically responsible for this, we will deal responsibly with animal laws, animal welfare and everything else. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7608	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7627	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! The liberals have clearly given up many of their principles. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call to the liberals: No!]] There has once been a time when the liberals have made use of them to stand and speak for people, for groups, for those affected. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now we're not just talking about it, now we're doing it too!]] The fact that you now stand up and criticize the fact that you are supposed to involve everyone who is concerned is the opposite of what you always pretended to be, namely, people's representatives. [[Call the SPÖ:Wendehalse!]] I think it is the most important thing at all not to lose contact with the groups affected by the legislation – see the pension reform now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Fair pensions for fish!]] It is also noteworthy, Mr Uwe Scheuch, that the alleged representatives of the farmers in Parliament have much less imagination and are much less offensive and progressive than the farmers themselves. In today’s “standard” is a very beautiful report about a “high-tech pig stable in which the herd is supposed to feel well”. ‘Austria’s largest group holding presupposes EU regulation’. – This is interesting because it is often argued that the EU level is the maximum that our farmers can do, for economic reasons. [[Abg. Wittauer: We do much more!]] Here, a pig owner who has been massively criticized, Hardegg, has made a very good project and is adopting an EU regulation. [[Abg. Scheibner: How many so big are there in Austria?]] I think you should reconsider the argument, consider whether the EU minimum level should really be the benchmark for the Animal Protection Act. [[Abg. Wittauer: He does it voluntarily, we don't have to force him!]] Your farmers are partly better than what you represent here in Parliament! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Why can't this become a pilot project for pig farming throughout Austria? - That's a mystery. You should perhaps thank the groups that have made this possible. This is because the “Four Pfotens”, which you always criticize, have worked together. This was a joint project of animal protectionists and a pig-keeper. I think you have to mention that praise. Let the comic front position you always build belong to the past, it no longer corresponds to reality. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Now to the motion for a resolution: It's a little funny, 'cause it's called: “The National Council welcomes” – and the National Council is the legislator! – ‘that a working group involving parliamentarians is set up in the Federal Chancellery.’ And these parliamentarians will then work out a government template. – I find this really remarkable. Have you once considered that we could also work out a law without federal chancellors – just as Parliament, since we are the legislator? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Here we could simply take the text of the popular animal welfare desire, supported by the liberals, the Greens and the SPÖ, which you then drafted into a law, as the basis for an initiative proposal. And we could then discuss them in the committees. – This is parliamentarianism, that is legislation! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] These meticulous Schüssel's ideas of using this working group in the Federal Chancellor's Office – we could just as easily include the federal states, NGOs and experts, no one prevents us from doing so. But that would actually have been, I think, an old FPÖ tradition in Parliament, right? – But I see it much too positive, I have to say. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the content of this motion for a resolution and on the Commission itself: [[Abg. Wittauer: But he's not that bad, is he?]] At the Committee of Inquiry it was very strange from the mood: In contrast to today, it was incredibly consensual, today it is a bit controversial again. It was therefore so consensual, because the core, the content was not placed on the table by the ÖVP in particular, was not said what it wanted in the Animal Protection Act. It was strongly conjured that, anyway, everyone is for animal protection, but how this is supposed to have a concrete effect, that has not been done. Now this becomes a little more visible, the curtain is drawn away a little, and there are already some obstacles and controversial issues coming to light. This is the case in the application, for example: ‘In principle, additional bureaucratic bodies should be prevented.’ What, please, are “additional bureaucratic institutions ”? What does that mean? In fact, it can only be interpreted in such a way that what is completely stated in the position paper of the Farmers' Federation is: We don't want an animal attorney's office! But why don't we even talk about whether that might make sense? This made a lot of sense in the environmental field, and it made a lot of sense for Salzburgers to set up an animal attorneyship. Why are you so opposed from the outset? What are you afraid of? – I don’t understand, but at least it becomes clearer that you don’t want to. What else is this about? – EU-wide implementation. I've already talked about that. Why should we not go ahead with EU directives? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: But not legally!]] That's a competitive advantage! The sooner we advance EU law, the better we are in competition with the other countries that have to do it; that is, inconspicuous, isn't it? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Now don't even clap the reds again, that's worrying!]] “First-move-advantage” means that in the economic language, you may be able to attend a seminar with Professor Van der Bellen. Finally, a few points of content: Of course, we are thinking about something – we are not just the evil animal protectors who take the ornamental fishing stress seriously – and I have to say: Animal welfare concerns not only those animals that look forward to caressing which can be felt in the moons, as Colleague Wattaul last reported about his horse, but all the animals. [[Abg. Wittauer: But this is animal torture when Wattaul rises on a horse!]] An ornamental fish can't be strangled, that's clear, but it's precisely the attitude conditions of animals in homes and in people's households that you have to address, of course, that's also a topic. [[Abg. Wittauer: But the horse from colleague Wattaul!]] Even if he's a fish, he's an animal, isn't he? – Yes, but you always talk about the canaries in the cages. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Grill: Well, that's not true!]] - Yes! Finally, a proposal on agriculture: One of our approaches has always been to make life easier for consumers by being well informed. Knowledge is power – that I say very often – knowledge is power, because then you can decide more consciously. And one of the proposals that have been on the table for a long time is to improve the labelling of animal products. I think that's a common interest. We want people to buy better, more like-minded products, so you need to improve the labelling. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Super! Okay!]] Okay. And that's why we need something like an animal justice index or a quality seal or something where with five eggs, with three eggs, with two hens, with four hens or whatever characterises how properly this farm works, this product has been manufactured. [[Abg. Wittauer: We have always demanded that!]] It's missing. If we were at least in agreement, we would already have a consensus that would greatly benefit both consumers and agriculture. Intensification work on quality, on the pollutants of low-cost imports, all this can be done together, all these are important things. A final note to the Farmers' Federation: I would like to give you the following consideration: In the food sector, unfortunately, this is still the case, women often care for families, buy women. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Thank God it is so!]] You may also need to rethink the structures and leave farmers in higher functions. Maybe other ideas will also come in marketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7947	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7965	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear spectators and listeners – I am pleased that many young people are among them! It is my first speech, and therefore I would like to introduce myself very briefly and to take up a few basic things on this issue, perhaps also to find the answer to why we have not yet had a federal animal welfare law or why it has not yet come to pass. Especially the subject of animal protection affects me very much because I grew up as a farmer's son in the Metnitz valley in Carinthia on a farm with many animals. Today we have a family farm with a second stand, which is the forestry industry. That means I'm running a technical office for forestry, so I'm a learned forest man. I have made myself independent over the way of the Austrian Federal Forest and the National Forest Service in order to be better able to practice my second profession, that is, that of the farmer. I drive this farm together with my family, i.e. I married a farmer, and we live on a organic farm at a height of 1 100 meters – by the way, with Carinthian blond cattle breeding; this is a cattle breed that has already been threatened by extinction, but is now under construction through a targeted conservation programme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In addition, we naturally have horses, pigs, goats, chickens, cats, dogs, rabbits, all kinds of cattle, as it is for such a farm. You can therefore believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that I have experience with agriculture and with animal husbandry. I can assure you: The animals are good at our farm, and we know how to deal with them and how to keep them in line. Farming is probably the most important and comprehensive animal husbandry without neglecting the other forms of farming. I'm just saying: Whoever grows up with animals, he pays attention to them, protects them, and feeds them, whether or not they land as food on the plate sooner or later. We have a very special, a very own positive attitude and relationship with the animals. We must remember, however, that there are only 5 per cent, even less than 5 per cent of the population as farmers with livestock and livestock, and at the same time they are the feeders of the entire rest of the population. That is why, I think, we need to talk about people and their understanding of how to deal with animals in the discussion of the issue of animal welfare – that has already been mentioned by my previous speakers. But about two thirds of young people today know neither the work nor the life at the farm. At the same time, the horror reports related to the BSE crisis, individual cases in mass animal husbandry, animal transport or similar animal torture events, which are really only isolated cases, have insecured the population and, of course, distorted the image in the public. That is why we, the High House, must carry out much more awareness-raising and general education in this field. Only then, if as many people as possible re-establish a direct relationship with nature and with its creatures, that is to say animals, will the animal take the right place in our society again. One of the main findings of the animal welfare survey was that, although the national laws are different but quite good, many shortcomings exist in enforcement. The national legislation in the field of agriculture, particularly in the field of animal welfare, has therefore definitely had its right and its meaning. Farming in a Carinthian mining farm works differently from, for example, in Vienna, and therefore we cannot introduce uniform standards everywhere, which do not correspond to the diverse agricultural conditions in the regions and regions of Austria. In addition, as a regional developer, it is always thoughtful for me when country competences are cut down and the much praised so-called diversity of regional independence in the united Europe often takes care of the vocabulary. [[Abg. Wittauer: Ladies and gentlemen, we have a motion for a resolution together!]] Here I would also like to see our coalition partner and the other political groups withdraw the demands for further legislation. However, I know very well that EU standards are calling for a uniform federal regime, and the ÖVP with German Chancellor Schüssel is also at the forefront of this project. However, we should also remember with every new law that we basically want administrative simplification so that the implementation can be made better. That is, we need at the execution level people who understand the similar handling of animals. It does not help anyone if extreme animal protectors, for example, are released on farmers and pet owners alike. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: “Lost out ”?]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: “Lost out” is a Carinthian expression!]] There, too, awareness-building and mutual interaction are enormously important. From the expert discussions and statements at this committee of inquiry, it is also to be concluded that we do not necessarily need stricter guidelines. Austria is already a model country in many respects, in the protection of the environment and nature – even if many do not want to do so – in human rights, in matters of safety, even now in animal welfare. Therefore, we must not go ahead with a federal animal welfare law, but above all we must think of those who live by the animals and with the animals, namely our farmers! An all too strict animal welfare law necessarily leads to distortion of competition on the international market and is simply harmful to existence. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That's not true!]] There are already enough examples of the fact that outside our state border there are companies that do not have to meet such strict conditions and whose goods are sold on our domestic markets and bought by Austrians. It must therefore be clear to us: We therefore export the animal welfare and import food from which we often do not even know the origin. And our farmers didn't deserve that! The rules have often changed enough for our farmers and have become tougher throughout. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Today it is about animal protection!]] Farmers have always adjusted and changed, they have had to invest and lose income; even if the economic situation has forced them to do so, this has always happened. I would also like to take a brief look at pension reform at this point. We can also take an example of this to the farmers: If it requires the economic situation, the state budget and the cetera, the farmers have always tightened the belt. Farmers live up to sustainability. The generation contract is quite natural to our farmers. Finally, I gather again: Awareness-building and training or information related to a new animal welfare law shall be given a central importance. This means raising awareness among the producers and consumers, but also among the control bodies and, most importantly, with the politicians, because there is, I believe, the deficit of recent years that there has been too little awareness in some minds or too little information, too little on the part of the farmers, too little on the problems, on the point of view of the farmers. The Austrian People's Party and I, as a farmer, therefore call for a reasonable and enforceable law with the right to competitiveness of our farmers and equal treatment of all animal owners.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8079	The next item is Mrs Walther's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8097	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! [[Abg. Oellinger: I think the Minister Chief is making an office strike today!]] For me too, it is the first speech here, although I was allowed to express some thoughts at the animal welfare survey. But I also have other similarities with my previous speaker: I too grew up on a farm, a farmer's daughter from the South Styria. My father was more of a wine maker, so the main focus of our agriculture was wine-growing, but of course it was a typical mixed agriculture, where, besides cows, pigs and chickens, the field industry was cultivated, everything needed to live in the 1950s and 1960s. Today I also have animals and care for animals in the agricultural by- acquisition. I too – like my previous speaker – have an extinct pet breed, namely the sheep of the forest. It comes from the Böhmerwald and from the Bavarian Forest – no Heidschnucken – it is very magnificent, with which I have already come to a very important role of our farmers, to which the landscaper and caretaker, to the role in the conservation of the landscape, with environmental protection and promotion of tourism and tourism. [[Inter-call]] In a landscape that is wild and whose beauty is no longer maintained, the tourist will not be so happy to come. [[Demonstrative applause by Members Eßl and Steindl.]] Back to the federal animal welfare law. The initiative for this federal animal welfare law has put some people here in the High House and especially the many animal protectionists in our country Austria, who, as we have heard from the Enquete Commission, can refer to a tradition over 100 years old. They have been working for this, and I have found it very paralyzing that in terms of animal welfare, there are still different national laws and different standards. These are very different, partly go to animal torture – you have to say that – and belong to unified and put on a higher level, so that Austria can really play a pioneering role in Europe. The demands that have been made, including from your side, are certainly designed to enable us to play such a role. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Wittauer:... you support our motion for a resolution!]] – I'm still coming! What's the matter? – A federal uniform animal welfare law – which is obviously out of dispute – which then also meets higher EU standards – will, I believe, be put out of dispute – and which does not contain the lowest standards of our country laws and regulations. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals and the Greens.]] What was not a matter, which unfortunately is not uniform, but was uniformly demanded by the animal protectors, was the animal attorneyship. I am very sorry that this is clearly and audiblely outlawed and is no longer to be dealt with in the working group. I am convinced that, with the anchoring of these standards, including an animal prosecution, we are following the wishes of a broad majority of the population and, although this has been disputed, also the desires of young people, who are constantly calling for new standards in food safety and quality of food. I would like to add that I should not, unless a ban on cagery It's very sad, because that's animal torture for me. If cage farming were to return through the back door, then I must say that it would not be EU-compliant and, moreover, a mockery for open and modern people who on the one hand want to consume modern and good food and on the other hand also want to exist in competition with the enlargement countries. Should it come so far that we follow the lowest standards, or do we want to set standards that increase our food quality and thus our quality of life? - I think I'm the second one. [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and the Greens, as well as on Mr Wittauer and Mr Lentsch.]] To deal with the enlargement countries: With the help of the price we will not make it, only with a high quality. And it is not true that, as one of my previous speakers claimed, 80 percent of the eggs sold still come from cages. That's just not right! This figure has now fallen to 60 percent. The many organic "agricultural" farmers in our country would have been poorly advised, they would not have started to farm organically, despite great pressure towards mass animal farming. And they've gotten through with it! They all know as well as I do that the large food chains such as “Spar” or “Billa” now offer organic products such as “Yes of course” and “Pure Nature” and thus make a good business as well. In my opinion, therefore, agriculture is well advised when it works quality and sets high quality standards – even in animal husbandry. [[In the case of the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens, and of the European Parliament, the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the ……]] That is a good thing to do with it. It would not have deserved a federal uniform animal protection law, now as an advertising gag for the ÖVP – according to the motto: the ÖVP has enforced it! – to be held. [[Congratulation and bravorage of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] This brings me back to my introductory remarks: I think that's what the captors deserved, and also all those who supported them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8196	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8236	You may have wondered, Mr Molterer, that animal husbandry is also possible in larger farms. The example brought by Mr Glavischnig shows that animal welfare is possible in all farms in Austria, even in larger farms. [[Abg. Prince: This is a good example of the structure of Austrian businesses!]] High house! Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! It has already been said a lot, and I would like to address an aspect which Mr Grillitsch has so advocated, namely the dialogue. He has repeatedly asked for a return to dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Who, then, has refused this dialogue for almost a decade? – That was not the parliamentary parties on this side, but that was you! [[The speaker points to the left side of the hall]] Distort the video input So you are not doing the facts, and you are not trying, at the same time as advocating the dialogue – Mr Grillitsch is unfortunately not present, please tell him to stop it – to formulate allegations against greens and animal protectionists who have always tried to achieve this dialogue and continue to strive. You can only make sense in a dialogue if you are willing to listen! And I now think it is necessary to listen and listen to what the experts have formulated within the framework of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Wittauer: But the experts argued differently!]] – That is true, Mr Wittauer, they have taken different positions, but at least in one point there was clearly a consensus: Animals are species that have to be kept in accordance with art. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: I agree! Yes! I agree!]] They have certain characteristics and a certain behavior. The newer science can show exactly how to support this behavior, which stables are to be developed so that this kind of behaviour can also be realized. I therefore believe that this should be put out of dispute. The Greens have always followed a very good concept for this, namely an Austrian scientific concept, the animal justice index already addressed by the Members. This is a way of specifically assessing the nature of the animal husbandry, well also for smaller farms, simply because this is why the social care of the animals is assessed by farmers. The design of the appropriate stables, the berths, the social behaviour, all this can be assessed. Therefore, this animal health index would be a really good measure of animal welfare. Ladies and gentlemen! Our demand, which has also been repeatedly confirmed and confirmed by experts within the framework of this Committee of Inquiry, is therefore: As a result of this discussion, it would be very useful to set up a body which, in advance, checks the stables, stable systems for their kind of justice, for their animal justice, so that farmers and farmers do not become tölpels, who make investment from companies that later fall on their minds. This is a very important concern for us. [[Abg. Wittauer: If there should be promotions, then that is a prerequisite anyway!]] – Mr Wittauer! There is already investment support for animal husbandry in particular, but there is a lack of basic testing of stables. This is a very important point from the Greens' point of view! Mr Wittauer, you mentioned the conditions of competition in Europe. In this respect – and you must not forget that – a ban on cagery farming and a change in the direction of the laying hens must be a must, because just neighbouring countries of Austria, like Switzerland, have long stopped the cagery. In Germany too, cage farming will be prohibited from 2007 onwards, only for shaped cages there will be a transitional period until 2012. These are the legal facts in our largest neighbouring country. If Austria wants to remain a pioneer in Europe in the field of agriculture, we need to look at this, we need to develop an animal welfare law that also introduces this standard. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: In Tyrol we have already banned cage farming! In Tyrol it is already standard!]] – Of course, cage farming in Tyrol and also in other federal states is already prohibited. That is why we rightly demand that these standards, which already exist in individual federal states, should not be levelled downwards, but that only the greatest common multiple can be the result of this process, Mr Grillitsch! The greatest common multiple means introducing the highest possible standards in the interests of the economy of agriculture. This has been stressed several times. Why? – Because ultimately a really good barn regime, optimal barn management minimizes the losses to farmers. There is too little drug use, too little loss in the stable – that is, an economically meaningful perspective. Finally, I would like to point out that, of course, it will be necessary to identify animal husbandry systems that are particularly suitable for animal welfare, i.e. to introduce an animal welfare seal to ensure that these farms have opportunities on the market. This would be possible with a good animal protection seal. This would also make it possible to upgrade the AMA seal, which I have already mentioned several times. The basis for this further development is a federal animal welfare law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, the authorities of the public institutions, the public authorities in the procurement sector, must respond to these developments in agricultural production. As we call for increased consumption of organic products in such establishments, it must, of course, become the principle that only products from animal husbandry are purchased for the public sector. Then it is also good for farmers, Mr Grillitsch, and then there is a dialogue possible: if you listen, if you use the opportunities and if you finally take full advantage of the opportunities offered by science and technology today, then also for agriculture!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8361	The next speaker was Mr Schweisgut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8379	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We are now almost at the end of this partly controversial discussion here in plenary. One sees that, if it's not a matter of purely material, the political fronts meet violently and again the political hack is at the centre. My impression of the Committee of Inquiry was that the common goal, namely an efficient law, was the desire of all. Today's statements by representatives of the various parties concerned have also had a uniform goal in mind. I would like to address two comments very briefly. Ms Sima said Austria was away from modern animal protection miles away. That statement, I think, is not correct. Although we may not have an Austrian animal welfare law, we are not very far from modern animal welfare, because there are already very efficient and very good laws in the countries which are and are being implemented in the sense of the animals. I was also disturbed by the fact that Mrs Glavischnig put this one example of a pig owner in the foreground, which is so perfect, perhaps not knowing that there are 2 500 hectares of six people managed there, namely, these pigs, perhaps not assuming that one takes a perfect example as a standard – even that can't be it. There are good examples everywhere, of course, but it was not quite right to present them as the standard of the future. We of the ÖVP want to unify the different laws so that they are comprehensible for all of Austria. We know that, in terms of animal welfare, we should focus on the individual animal rather than lobbyists, not representatives of organizations, but the individual animal should be protected from animal torture. If one, also in the sense It may be easier to introduce some standards in the animal welfare law, which comes back to these considerations. Of course, the various demands for penalties and controls are also legitimate. Every law is as good as it is controlled. In my opinion, however, in the field of animal welfare, not only should we focus on penalties and excessive controls, but also on positive motivation in the future: developing the law to ensure that animal owners – and I mean not only agriculture, but all animal owners – are accompanied by motivating measures to ensure that animal welfare in the sense of the animal is realized. The fact that Austria is a pioneer within the EU or is already a pioneer in some areas is, I believe, also clear. The fact that we do not want to water down individual country laws is in the interests of all of us. The fact that an automatic application of the highest standard is not to be sought is also easy to understand, as there are different basic conditions in the individual Länder. We cannot compare the agricultural attitude in Vienna with a mountain farming attitude in farms that are several centuries old. Since automatic equality should be anchored, it would not be in the sense of the animal owners. Something very strong was stressed, which I also consider very important, namely that not only structural measures, not only on-site situations, are important, but that the personal care of an animal, the personal contact of an animal with man, must be a central requirement, something that should also be the focus in the future. I know from my practical experience with very many animals: If the animal loses personal contact, it also loses a lot of joy in life. So this is a very important factor that is taken into account. What we want is strict rules. What we want is a good law. What we want is to work it out by autumn – a time frame that I think is quite possible. The draft will then come into the relevant bodies. The accusation that 2004 is far too far away is therefore not correct, but 2004 as an appointment for the in-force step of the law is realistic. Everything else would be unrealistic. The ÖVP will be behind a good animal welfare law. We will also consider this, and we will have a relatively fast conclusion in the sense of the animal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8440	As the next speaker, Mrs Mag. Grossmann in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8459	Mr President, I should like to thank the Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! As a new Member of Parliament, before working in the National Council, I have already worked on animal welfare in my federal state of Styria and also throughout Austria. However, I have also been following the discussions about a Federal Animal Protection Act earlier, in particular those concerning animal welfare in 1996, which has at least been signed by more than 460 000 Austrians who are concerned and are moving to animal welfare. If you want to sum up the chronology of events in the field of animal welfare in Austria, you can find the following: The High House, which has been very honoured by the proponents of the animal protection people's desire, has a public hearing in the plenary hall on 20 July. ==References====External links== Not long after, two drafts, namely the SPÖ and the Greens, were in place for a strict and modern Federal Animal Protection Act, both of which were coordinated with relevant animal welfare organisations and their experts. – Mr Scheuch – he is still present – so it is! [[Abg. Wittauer: But that was not agreed with your government partner!]] But no later than that time until a few days before the 2002 election, it was only the ÖVP that did not want to agree to a Federal Animal Protection Act. [[Abg. Wittauer: The ÖVP was your government partner back then!]] In addition, in the years 1996 to 2002, representatives of the ÖVP continued to try to make discussions and cooperation with other political groups more difficult to prevent, in order to pursue a decision on the concerns of the animal welfare people’s desire. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is a repeat!]] Therefore, the greater the surprise for all animal friends in our country was that the Federal Chancellor of ÖVP went to the public a few days before the election with the promise to agree to a Federal Animal Protection Act – that of course media-friendlyly decorated with Hunderl and Katzerl. However, the surprise, ladies and gentlemen, did not last very long. Those who have thought that the House is now being dealt with a draft federal animal protection law, which was introduced by the government groups, are again disappointed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Instead, the Federal Government, under the leadership of the Austrian People's Party, will start again in 1996. ==References== April this year, a survey committee was set up in the Austrian National Council, where we have heard numerous, highly qualified and committed units, including you and Mr. Collegue. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wittauer]] Only the ÖVP/FPÖ government... [[Abg. Wittauer: We all know that! ... 2003, Law 2004!]] – You were already talking anyway, a bit of patience, are you? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, the ÖVP/FPÖ government is still on the scene and in reality does not think of changing this state beyond lip confession. So finally admit that! I am firmly convinced that the ÖVP farmers, who are very well entertained, do not do good to God's clientele with their heart tactics and their refusal. [[Abg. Grill: The Leut’s come together when talking!]] Many farmers have willingly opened their stable doors, not only for tourists, but also for consumers, and also for a stricter and more animal-friendly animal welfare legislation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] – That’s really worth a applause. Even in my native West Styria, I can proudly point to some such examples. We must not forget or overlook the fact that the attitude of farmed animals produces food that is also consumed by us humans. Animal welfare is therefore active consumer protection. [[Abg. Wittauer: That is what is in the motion for a resolution! You can read that in it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Animal welfare is essentially an ethical, moral obligation for us. In society there is a broad consensus on the value of animal welfare, and it would be very nice if this consensus were also reflected in this House. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8589	As the next speaker, Mr Gradwelt has spoken on behalf of the honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8631	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Wittauer, I'm keeping you away with repetitions, but I can't spare you with an accusation, namely that you too have to take note of the fact that six years of experience leaves its scars and wounds behind, and you can't just push them aside and forget them. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Now he'll cry!]] Six years now the debate on a uniform animal welfare law in this House is already taking place. And, Mr Grillitsch, it was not a German Chancellor's bowl, of which you are so deeply impressed, even of whose initiatives you are so deeply impressed, but it was the Austrians in a democratic way: [[Abg. Donabauer: Right!]] On the street and in the municipal offices, signatures were collected and a popular animal protection desire was brought into this house that we discussed, Mr Grillitsch. Mr State Secretary! I am very grateful to you for the correction of the past. My call was really wrong. Mr Grillitsch has not slept in a cuckoo clock since 1996, but in a pendulum watch, which I took from his speech. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the report on the Committee of Inquiry we must say that we have had an excellent, exciting discussion. Although I did not have the impression that consensus was great in the sub-areas, the objective was consensus. In the details – and that was mentioned in this committee of inquiry – we still need discussion. So we will still have to discuss, but, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, if we want to discuss, then I think we should be self-confident enough to hold these discussions here in Parliament, but do not ask the government to cooperate with us in its working group, let them give us the opportunity to be there, and they ask us to present what we have been able to advise or consult here in the House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A little more self-confidence than the legislators of this republic! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] The experts in the Animal Protection Survey Commission have presented us with the wide variety of topics, have given us an idea of how this law could and should be obtained. I may perhaps be a member of the Animal Protection Act. Mr Grillitsch. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. I have been a proud owner of a pure-racial euro-schattering for a number of years, but have a problem: Because if I drive my dog from Styria through Lower Austria to Vienna, I would actually have to read three animal welfare laws to know in which country I can move with my dog. This concerns not only me but 500 000 other dog owners in Austria who have the same problem. So there is a need for action in this regard, for years and decades now, Mr Grillitsch, not only since yesterday! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The dog can't do anything for you to make such calls, Mr. Drinkl, really not! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] So there is a need for action. I therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Sima, because this motion for a resolution clearly addresses the self-confidence of the House, the parliamentarians, and the objectives of a federal animal welfare law. That is why I would like to ask you to agree to this request. I am, as I said at the end of the Committee of Inquiry, actually a limitless optimist, but I hope it doesn't take another six years and then we start from the beginning again. Since Mr Morak has not yet reached this half dozen years, one more year has come to pass. In other words, we will have to discuss this for seven years, according to the Federal Government's views. Since the proposals are already on the table and because excellent documents are available from the Committee of Inquiry, I believe that we can reach a decision already this year – provided that the ÖVP wanted to do so and if you, Mr Grillitsch, would be prepared to implement that in which your farmers are already far ahead of you. After all, these are not afraid of a federal animal welfare law, which will live up to it. Fear only you as so-called representative of interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8710	In the word, no one has been reported for this. I ask the honourable Members to take a seat. We are now voting on the Committee's request to take note of the report by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry and Annexes 54 and 54 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Wittauer, Mr Wittauer, on the preparation and transmission of a government proposal concerning a Federal Animal Protection Act to the National Council. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is largely accepted. (E 6.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Sima, Mag. Weinzinger, colleagues and colleagues on the rapid submission of the Federal Animal Protection Act in the sense of popular desire for a Federal Animal Protection Act. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. 4. Point Report by the Committee on Sports on Amendment 80/A (E) by Mrs Elmar Lichtenegger, Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Beate Schasching, Mr Dieter Brosz, Mr President, on the preparation and transmission of a Government template concerning a professional sports law to the National Council (77 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8790	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to Mr Haubner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8814	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is an absolutely successful sports country in relation to its size and population. On the one hand, the many international successes, Olympic medals, world champion and European champion titles and, last but not least, the successes of the disabled sports, the Paralympics and the Special Olympics prove. In recent years, a professional application for international sporting events has also found positive precipitation: Austria has received a number of supplements for international sporting events, such as the football Em 2008, the Bike World Cup 2006 or the European Business Sports Games 2003 in Salzburg to mention just a few successful examples here. Both the position of sports in Austria and the role of Austria in the international concert are greatly strengthened by these international performances. And if we're on the 2nd. In July of this year, also for Salzburg, the prize for the 2010 Winter Olympics, the largest sporting event in the world, Austria will again be at the heart of the world's events. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In one area, however, Austria is still lagging behind in the EU comparison, as far as the legal basis for sport is concerned. Although there are at least as many professional athletes as journalists and actors in Austria, we do not yet have a law governing the agendas of professional sports. We also need legal framework for our professional athletes in Austria, just as the applications mentioned above and the implementation of competitions. Due to my personal experience both in the field of football growth sports and in the field of athletics, I have been dealing with this matter for a long time. In my former position as managing director of a Federal Research Centre in Salzburg, I have repeatedly had to deal with the problem of separation between professional and amateur sports. There has been no clear regulation in the past, which has made daily work very difficult in the associations. It was usually the case that cases of problem were dealt with as individual cases and could only be solved with great personal commitment and with great effort in financial resources through the recovery of legal assistance or arbitration courts. Such cases, however, have also occurred in associations with less publicity, which I have been able to see in many personal discussions, so that there has been a strong uncertainty between officials on the one hand and athletes on the other. In these cases, the question of liability has played a very crucial role for the officials in particular. For example, a professional sports law for non-profit sports, which plays a major, comprehensive role in social, educational and health matters in Austria, is of immense importance. If there is a clear distinction between professional sport and non-profit sport, then the 300,000 volunteers in the approximately 12,000 associations in Austria also have a secure basis for their indispensable work, in the sense of sports. It cannot be that a group, such as the professional sportsmen are now, must live without legal conditions. We therefore need legal certainty as soon as possible – that has been one thing for years – for our athletes and clubs. The current or non-existent regulations will not solve the future of professional sport. Austrian top-ranking sport also needs to get a logistic place that he already holds economically today. It is all the more gratifying that, as a result of this long period of discussion, there is now a joint application for the creation of a professional sports law, a request which – even more enjoyable – is accompanied by a period of time. However, it is undisputed that with the previous legal situation, as I have already mentioned, it cannot be found. It is therefore necessary to take account of the specificities of sport. The involvement of the BSO is therefore certainly the right way, as it ensures that the characteristics of all sports can be considered and incorporated into the law matter. Based on the results of this expert round – consisting of Schrammel, Marhold, Tomandl and Grundei – in order to name these experts in particular – a law for professional sports must also be created, taking into account the special sporting characteristics. I think it is particularly important that you see this law not only through the glasses of the labour-law, but above all through the glasses of sport. Taking this into account, we already have at our conference on 7. April those, as I mean, are heading in the right direction. The Professional Sports Act must apply to all areas relating to a professional sportsman: both for legal areas as well as for tax areas, for social security matters, et cetera. All areas should be covered. Summary: We need a clear definition of professional athletes. As I have already said, we need a law for the professional sportsman that covers all cross-sectionalities – and above all, it must be a law from the point of view of sports. It must provide legal certainty to sport, clubs and athletes. I am convinced that the path taken is a guarantee that this lack of professionalism in professional sport will be successfully eliminated within a year. Most of these are certainly our athletes and clubs. In this sense: Live the sport!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8926	The next speaker was Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8945	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! The Professional Sports Act is a relatively undisputed matter between the parties, and I therefore hope that this will create the basis for a comprehensive regime of sportsmen. The concerns we have in this law are certainly that it must not be a law that reflects exclusively the interests of football sports, but that is, of course, one of the main operators of such a law. Let us remember that a football player can earn 3 to 6 million schilling in the Bundesliga and then partially apply the various employee protection provisions or also social provisions or are not applied. The difficulty with this matter is also, for example, to decide in which direction this should develop: In the future, should the professional sportsman in ball sports, in team sports be considered more in the direction of self-employed or rather in the direction of employees? To establish this balance of interests, this will be particularly important for the small clubs, namely, to what extent they will then fall into such a law, even if grants are made to certain athletes there. That is to say, on the one hand, this balance of interests that I have already mentioned has to be created – the definition of ‘professional sportsmen’ will therefore be one of the most important tasks of this law – but on the other hand, it is not allowed to pour out the child with the bath, so to speak, to lead the small clubs to the edge of the ruin, if they are faced with regulations that ultimately do not fit into the union structure from their small structure. Another balance of interest to be taken into account in this law is that, of course, professional athletes in individual sports will also have rights if social security benefits are primarily regulated. – We will therefore have to observe these three pillars of the definition of professional athletes in this law. I think it will be very difficult to make a distinction between team and individual sports, and it will be very difficult to draw the line when a sportsman is a professional or when not yet. This will be especially important for small clubs. However, I believe that this is the right way to try to involve all sports organisations and seek cooperation with the BSO in order to find a regulation in the broadest possible interest. In this context, I welcome the Community procedure, and I also believe that real positive results can only be achieved if everyone brings in their experiences. As a former club owner, however, I know how difficult it is to achieve such a balance of interests in a club – and the more difficult it is then at the level of individual or club sportsmen. Nevertheless, I would like to make the following criticism here, one that you must not forget – and I am here, I think, even an opinion with Mr Sport State Secretary Schweitzer: It is a shame that the Secretary of State will use his weight as a member of the government to prevent this regulation which appears in the current budget accompanying laws, namely to abolish accident insurance, with a supplemental contribution of 0.1 percent of the contribution base. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Of course he can't keep up with the graver!]] [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] I am very surprised that there is no cry from Mr. Sport's State Secretary Schweitzer, it is precisely the sport that brings considerable savings to the health sector, precisely because of its preventive effect. There is a study that suggests a damage of about €305 million in sports accidents. In the end, however, health care is saved through preventive measures in the field of health, through sport, €552 million. This means that essentially a positive of €255 million is on the side of the athletes. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: It's about extreme sports!]] It is therefore incomprehensible why we now want to introduce a supplementary contribution to health insurance for recreational accidents. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Extreme sports...!]] Of course, 30 percent of this would be for the athletes, and it is really not worth noting why the sport, which saves around €255 million in health care, is once again asked to cash out with an additional contribution to accident insurance! - No, they all pay! [[New call of the abg. Dr. Brinek.]] These contributions are to be paid by all compulsory insured persons – and this is only intended as leisure accident insurance! Read this in your own draft before you interfere in this discussion! Read your own bill! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That means, in fact, you ask sports, ask the sportsmen to check out, although they make a positive contribution to health insurance by using it less by sports drivers than by non-sporters. It is a pity that you can virtually introduce a “strength tax” for athletes by ÖVP and the Freeman; try almost in passing by You'll be quick to accommodate this. That's what everyone has to pay for anyway! I'm really sorry! In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is an APA broadcast by Mr Sport State Secretary Schweitzer, in which he says he rejects this accident insurance. – Mr Sport State Secretary, I hope that you will gain more weight in the government, because your opinion has not been penetrated in the draft government itself. It is very nice to sit down and say: No, I do not want to do that, if in the end the opposite happens, which is what the majority party in this coalition only wants. It is a pity that this has not been taken into account, and I hope that we can make this better in the Professional Sports Act and come to a uniform regulation. I find a “road tax” for athletes counterproductive! Once again, we should consider whether this should really be included in the final version of the law. In this sense, I hope for a common and good outcome about the professional sports law.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9041	Mr Lichtenegger is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9059	Mr President. Mr Sport State Secretary! High house! Dear Seers! This motion for a resolution on the creation of a professional sport law finally takes into account a major concern of Austrian sport. I therefore believe that it is important and necessary for all political groups to see how essential it is to create new framework conditions for Austrian sport. I have often pointed out the influence of sports on many areas of life, but I would like to repeat that times when sports was considered the “most beautiful side-by-side thing in the world” are over. Based on top sports, ladies and gentlemen, which creates role models and arouses interest, we also find a great health and educational aspect not only in youth sports, but also in youth sports, leisure sports and especially in wide-ranging sports. Because sport means a value added of € 7.2 billion a year and brings about around 100 000 people work, the economy and those responsible for tourism know about the importance of sports – and in this case the importance of such a law. Modern sport is now so professional that events, associations, various institutions and the individual athletes themselves can be considered as companies. Only in Austria, if you look at this from a labour-law point of view, unfortunately the professional image of the sportsman is missing. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to create a professional port law for a sportsman to secure him in a number of ways. For the first time in this context, we can answer the question of social security, for the first time the question of health insurance and pension insurance, as they are thus treated in a uniform manner for an athlete. Furthermore, there is for the first time a well-founded legal basis for the profession of the sportsman – and the tax question will be brought to a uniform line for the first time, so to speak. In this context, a Advisory Council has been set up which, as previously mentioned, also takes into account the protection of performance for the sportsman, including the relationship between the athletes and the club or the general rules governing professional sports contracts. At the moment, it seems that the profession of “sportler” – with the artists there are the same difficulties – does not actually exist before the law. In any case, I consider such a law to be another important and necessary step. Austria does not suffer from a lack of talent in terms of sport. No, we're not. have even very many young, talented athletes – only these are offered too few perspectives to practice professional sports. Among other things, this law will provide the opportunity to install a sports instructor, which I think is a very good idea, because this will make people easier to do sports first, they have a vocational training and then they will finally receive the sport. Many families would like to see their children in a sports profession, only: Most are before the vocational decision or before a training decision at 16 or at the latest 18 years of age. Only a few have the financial opportunities to further promote their children or to carry the financial risk of performance sports, because when a youth comes to sports, no one can know whether he is staying there or whether he can earn money with it. Another problem is that you can get trained athletes, so to speak, cheaply from abroad to Austria and so many of our young people have the chance to establish themselves in performance sports. In my opinion, a professional sports law that is still missing is also one of the main obstacles to the fact that performance sports in Austria is not particularly attractive among young people. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that in the Czech Republic, for example, so much better football are born, so that these are “panning” our national team with a 5 : 1?- Oh, my God! It's not like that! There is a system, a structure behind it, which is very professional – and something like that is missing in Austria. All of this I know from my own experience; I could sing a song of it. If you do not take any initiatives of your own as an individual, you will find nothing in our sport. The meaning of sports is also to create certain structures to create equal opportunities and conditions for people from different social layers. What is possible from a sports-entrepreneurship perspective is shown by the Austrian Ski Association, which always manages to produce new top stars. – Such positive conditions should be extended to the whole range of Austrian sport so that all such opportunities can be offered. I also see the athletes as signposts, ambassadors and a little bit too – I dare to say this here – as a state servant, because everyone is happy when an Austrian sportsman, as it were, keeps the competition in check and wins medals; everyone develops a certain kind of patriotism. And many also see sports performance as an inspiration for their own activities. I am therefore very pleased that we can offer new perspectives to a wide range of Austrian sports. What makes me most happy is that we take the matter together and thus create something really good for sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9130	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9148	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The need to standardize professional sport in certain areas in Austria is in fact undisputed. I believe that a lot is currently going on in a grey area, so it makes sense to consider whether we should not have formalized regulations there too. An example of this has been shown for me in the following observation. Since I lived in Kottingbrunn for a while and was able to experience the climb of the local football club – which is now no longer taking place – I have seen that there is a bizarre separation between the clubs playing in the regional league, so to speak in the amateur sector, and what comes after that and what will become professional sports at once. This has led to: that for Kottingbrunn, when the regional league – where players like Willfurth had played former national players and certainly had not played for free – went up into the Bundesliga, at once there were completely different labour law conditions, so that Legionaries who had played in the Regional League for years before were not allowed to play in the Bundesliga. It is thought that this system cannot be completely voted. You know that this is not exactly a small amount; even in the regional league, salaries are paid, which are far above what you can earn in Austria on average in your professional life. The fact that one looks at how such regulations are to be or can be designed is therefore, I think, highly meaningful and necessary. There is a grey area in the entire problem of sportsmen, club athletes, individual athletes for the national team; for example, with regard to liability issues, it is necessary to think about it. It's probably undisputed. The question that appeared again at the last World Ski Championships should also be considered: What about links? Skiing is ultimately an individual sport. If, at the same time, the president fulfils the duties of a sports manager and decides who is allowed to participate in the World Cup, and then, by chance, – or not – his athletes whom he is allowed to participate in additional economic care, but not others who are established elsewhere, this shows at least the problems that one should deal with and for which it is necessary to install precise rules. I would, however, like to see this need recognised and to be aware that it will not be easy for everyone to come to a professional sports law, to enter into the current debate, which has resulted from the change in the Sports Secretariat or through the new State Secretary, and to address the question of how the budget increase in the field of sport promotion will be designed. I do not want to say that we agree with the Secretary of State that it will be the first time that new resources will not automatically come into existing structures, but that there will also be new priorities here. In particular, I would like to welcome the idea of providing basic support to the Austrian Disabled Sports Association for the first time. This is a long-standing demand of the Greens, and we will be pleased if this is to happen in the course of the new amendment. This is not even a small amount, and it will be possible for the first time that the Disabled Sports Association will also be able to get money outside the normal structures. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'm not quite clear about where the resistance is. I noticed that, after a review has been carried out, a statement by the city of Vienna is very worrying. In this, the city of Vienna is massively opposed to this new arrangement to also provide money to the disabled sports association, and it argues that it would be much better to keep the money flowing into the existing structures instead of equipping the disabled sports association. We know from the past just how difficult it was, for example, that in the BSO the Disabled Sports Association was recognized at all – the recognition was associated with a relinquishing of funds – or how difficult it is in the existing structures to maintain the opportunities for disabled sports in general. Therefore, this statement of the city of Vienna is not understandable to me at all. I will be glad, as I have said, if it succeeds in taking this step in Austria. Finally, it is an effort to set new priorities and say, for example: We are using new resources in women's sport to finance projects there. We're glad too. Finally, I would like to say the following in general to the promotion of sports. I have also seen in the Committee that there is a kind of defence attitude, which basically has a little to do with the feeling that it should continue to be used to the same extent as possible. There are therefore on the one hand the requirements of broadband, and I believe that we are currently facing problems in the school sector, especially due to hourly cuts, but above all because there are too few adequately trained teachers in the sports sector in the primary school area. This is better in higher schools, but in primary education, we all know, this is partly a problem. It also raises the question of whether there should be an impact on the economy or on a very good economy in individual trade associations. If one looks at the fact that, for example, a relatively professional and apparently successful job is now being done in the pool association or in the table tennis association, this has no impact on the financial structure in de facto, and that, on the other hand, there is actually no meaningful youth work at all in associations such as the tennis association at the moment, then one should ask, I think, whether the result of the work in the associations should somehow have an influence on the funding structures. I think we have a discussion in front of us that needs to be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9217	Mr Mag, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. Schweitzer. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9239	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful for the very material and constructive discussion. I would like to join Mr Brosz, who rightly notes that it is not quite clear why the emphasis on disability sports is criticised by other sports officials. It was clear to all of us that 2003, the year of the disabled, should also take particular account of sport and sports policy. That is why it was of course for us that more funding was given, particularly in the field of disabled sport. We have tried very hard and managed to make 527 000 € per year available to the Disabled Sports Association and to provide additional amounts for the Paralympics and Special Olympics – one, as I believe, good investment and not an investment that should be publicly criticised with the argument: This means that other athletes get less. [[I should like to congratulate the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as those of the Greens.]] I think it was also very reasonable to decide on the inclusion of the disabled in the promotion of the top sport, because everyone who pursues the competitions for the disabled is able to see that they are top sports and therefore the promotion from the top sports pot is quite appropriate. It is particularly important for you not only to know, but also to carry on that by establishing my predecessor, the Rubellos action, a fund from which now €727 000 can flow annually into the sport of disabled persons could be created, so that, finally, long-term funding of the sport of disabled persons could be ensured. [[I should like to congratulate the liberals, as well as the representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] However, before I come to the Professional Sports Act, I would also like to face up to the criticism of Mr Wittmann and Mr Wittmann. Mr Wittmann, we should have an open discussion on how these additional burdens of our disease system are to be financed. Whether leisure accident insurance in the form it is now thought to be the right solution, I actually dare to doubt. But if we discuss this, then we should discuss it very differently. I think it will be your vote if I say: Those who are exposed to increased risk must also increasingly expect something to happen; and those who are exposed to increased risk should be assured of any resulting damage. I also believe that there are not only people in the field of sports who are exposed to an increased risk. There are the so-called extreme athletes. It is also easy to understand where these accidents actually occur and what is the result, in particular, of high treatment costs. In this area, recreational accident insurance is well justified. But in this context, of course, we also need to discuss other people in our society who are consciously exposed to an increased risk and who are not yet asked to cash out with higher contributions. Then we discuss this quite openly! How is it with those who are consciously and against the advice of all doctors who are treating health-threatening obesity and with the resulting diseases, which must then also be treated with a lot of money? I think Professor Grünewald could have us there as a specialist... [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] We need to be able to discuss this when it comes to damage resulting from unreasonable, contrary to better advice. We need to discuss this, as well as all those who deliberately give in to extreme alcohol consumption and in which the treatment of the resulting damage from it is then to be borne by the general public. That's the same with the extreme smoker. We also know that he is personally suspending this risk and that the costs are then transferred to the general public. Let us therefore conduct this open debate. This will, of course, be difficult, but we are responsible for the financing of the services to be provided to the public, namely the task of also thinking about how this should be designed in the future. You are all cordially invited to participate in this discussion, and I am convinced that you can all make your constructive contribution to it. But if this discussion is held, then open, comprehensive and without any restrictions! I am convinced that it will be a long discussion, but if we want to, we will come to a common outcome for this society, and under the line is an average healthier Austrian – I am convinced – because he then performs more sports, does reasonable sports and probably also lives healthier, no longer putting himself at risk of overweight, excessive alcohol consumption and extreme smoking, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] To the Professional Sports Act – Mr Matznetter, it is no problem at all if you believe that you have a right to smoke, drink or have overweight. Then we simply share risk groups! Anyone wishing to join this risk group is paying the higher contribution, because it is simply divided into a risk group on the basis of the data available in various health studies. It is left to the individual to choose the risk group. But let's open the discussion! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] To the professional sports law. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that we were able to achieve unanimity among the parties here, so that we can not only discuss it now, but also finally begin to make nails with heads. The preparation and decision-making of a professional sports law... – Mr Bauer, what is the problem with you? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] With the overweight, with too much smoking or with the alcohol consumption? You're not extreme athletes, as I know. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The Professional Sports Act is in preparation and is intended to contain the framework conditions for an inter-internal disciplinary law, for the creation of sports courts and sports companies. The use of sporting events is to be regulated. The performance protection of the athlete should be included. The aim is to regulate the relationship between sportsmen and the club, the training relationship and the training compensation, the control of the sportsman, the right to sports activity, the obligation to participate in association competitions, the provision of labour, general arrangements for professional sports contracts and the protection of minors. Mr Bauer, if you are interested in this, listen to me. A Advisory Board has already been set up to develop the legal basis for the Professional Sports Act. Representatives of all four parliamentary parties are members of this advisory board, in addition to the ÖFB, the Bundesliga, three labour law experts, the BSO, the tennis, the athletics, the handball, the volleyball, the ski and basketball associations, the players' union and representatives of the federal liaison body as well as the Federal Ministry of Justice and the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs. We have already had a study prepared by Professor Schrammel, who has been since 27. ==References== On the basis of the previous technical conferences and the study of university professor Dr. Schrammel, we have jointly defined the further procedure. This draft law will now be further developed under the leadership and ongoing referral of the Advisory Council. The BSO takes over the coordination of autonomous sports, the Advisory Board takes over the function of a steering team and will constantly report on the results of Professor Schrammel. The draft law will take place until 30. It will be available for review on 1 September 2003, and a decision will be taken no later than 1 September 2003. ==References== Ladies and gentlemen! This will set an essential milestone within a very short time, and something that will put the exercise of Austrian sport on special foundations will be presented. I would like to thank you today for the joint preparatory work that has so far been completely in line with all those involved.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9369	The next speaker was Mrs Mikesch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9387	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear youth that has come to us today so many! Now I'm an entrepreneur and I'm running a production company with my husband. I come from a small family business, a typical small and medium-sized business, and I am pleased to speak today to the Professional Sports Act, since my youth was characterized by top sports. I can look back on some national championship titles in toerlauf, giant tororlauf and descent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore, from my personal experience I know both sides, once the side of the sportsman and on the other hand the side of the employer. Being a sportsman truly means exercising a strenuous profession, a profession which is not yet sufficiently defined as such. That's why we need this professional sports law. We must define this term clearly once and for all. This four-party resolution proposal is the beginning of a parliamentary development process, and at the end of the day a law is to be drawn up which will help everyone and create legal certainty for the professional sportsman, on matters of tax law, social security law, and also the specific problems of women must be clarified and put into a uniform law. As a former high-ranking sportswoman and current entrepreneur, I am willing to bring myself in and let in my experiences, both positive and negative. Sports means performance, courage, commitment and, of course, full concentration on the goal. Therefore, it is very important to create framework conditions so that the athletes can concentrate entirely on their sporty exercise so that sport remains in the foreground. It is therefore now about establishing professional sportsmen in an entrepreneurial framework and finding a clear system for ensuring that there is a guarantee in labour, social and tax law in paid sports. On the other hand, it is also about legal protection for associations and associations, i.e. for the employers' side. It must be very important for us to secure and support the many non-profit associations with their many volunteer volunteers and also to create framework conditions for athletes so that practitioners can reach common goals with their associations in order to be able to achieve successes for themselves and for our Austria, so that good successes for the tourism industry in our country are also possible. Sport is of great economic importance in Austria. The figures speak a clear language. The value added effects are divided into two major areas: On the one hand, in the core area, which ranges from the clubs to school sports to the sports goods dealers. According to an economic chamber study, this includes about €2.74 billion. In the second area, sports tourism, we talk about €2.69 billion. This together represents a value added of €5.43 billion, which corresponds to 2.9 percent of the gross domestic product and an employee's share of 2.6 percent. These figures show how important the economic importance of sports in Austria is. Austria is the country of athletes and clubs. This is a great opportunity, but also a great responsibility. For us, that means: Let us create a professional sports law as soon as possible, so that we can protect young people in the exercise of their sporting activity, promote young people's work in the clubs and associations and support the self-employed professional athletes. Athletes are great role models that give young people joy and pleasure in sports. Sports means health, and health means less costs in the social system. A sports entrance is worth any age, appropriate and properly dosed. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know Power Popes? Power-pumps are short exercises aimed at refocusing mind and body more, getting involved and going towards a goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: These are the urgent ones for us!]] Go to the starting position with me: The shock sticks forward, the time for the professional sports law is running!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9442	The next speaker was Mr Faul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9460	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! That this blue-black government wants to take part of my pension is already a sad thing, but that I should pay for my little overweight punishment now, Mr State Secretary, this is another proof of your attitude. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Just a little?]] I think that's a very bad premeditation. Dear Secretary of State! I couldn't run as much as I could once get as thin and lightweight as you. But maybe you too belong to a risk group. I don't want to say now that the farmer Johnny said you should get in the ring with him, because then you heard higher insurance anyway. However, I also think that because of your intense sporting activity your knees will once again suffer. Even if you travel around the Burgenland without a helmet with your bike on unpaved mountain bike tracks, you are extremely dangerous. So I think you have to pay as much as I do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] Mr. State Secretary! Back to the professional sports law. Although this is undisputed – Mr. Lichtenegger is not here right now – I first of all note that: Professionalism is not only the result of this professional sports law. – Aha, Mr Lichtenegger is present! . I believe that professionalism is certainly also very strongly influenced by money, by the donations that must come from the Federation on the one hand and, that is my opinion, must also be strengthened. Of course, it also depends on how much the economy and, ultimately, the advertising goes to a sports sector. Dear Secretary of State! As the chairman of 20 clubs in a middle town with about 10,000 inhabitants, I am somewhat afraid of a very radical and rigid formulation of such a professional sports law, because we are actually working in the lower leagues. So I'm afraid of budgets that explode because, in the end, the public hand and the communities need to improve these budgets. Just because I have experience with this, I am also afraid of administrative agents who will come to the clubs quite massively. I am afraid of the payment of wages, I am afraid of the tax counseling costs and, ultimately, also of the many follow-up costs of the workers' contracts in these small structured associations. So I would ask you to take this into consideration. But I am also – and this is a big emotional factor – a bit afraid of a motivation of the players who play for free. – Mr Lichtenegger or Mr Brosz have already said that. – On the other side On the other hand, there are players who have to come from upper leagues and be paid. I also have a bit of fear of the democratization of the officials, who are currently working free of charge in the clubs, in the roof associations and are actually only getting extra work done. Because I'm just at the roof associations: Dear Secretary of State! We also talked about the umbrella organisations in the committee, and I allow myself to speak on them. When we talked about the umbrellas or professional associations in the past, I could see the tendency that you, the Minister of Sports, but ultimately also you, were just preoccupied with sports. It was always hard to see that the Minister of Sports sought her political access to sports. And to continue to do this, you, Mr State Secretary, cannot quite agree, even if you speak very carefully in the matter. You're just talking about the big reorganisation of the sports structure in Austria, and you're talking about the fact that many new associations should be included in the professional associations. I would like to give you the following answer: I mean, you're right if you're talking about rising demands on the sports budgets. You are not right, however, if you think that the trade unions and umbrella organisations, as they are currently organized, would not be ready for negotiation only on the basis of reactionary views. The solution, Mr State Secretary, can only be that nothing is taken away from the existing associations. In addition to the inclusion of associations, additional money is needed. Today, in his budget speech, your Minister of Finance has fully spoken about how he wants to promote Austrian sport. Require your fair share of him! Ask for a sports budget similar to the cultural budget, ask for the sports billions! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9516	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9534	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Values listeners! Times change, fashion and money. In sport, it is also the same, and that is why it will be necessary to research through the individual sports and professional associations in the future. Are they still modern? What are the costs? What are the objectives? What about the re-use? How to shape the promotion of young people? This request for a professional sports law is about taking into account the specificities of Austrian sport. I'm glad it's coming out. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. This is also expressed in the fact that it is a four-party request. In the future, it will be a matter of creating optimal labour law, social law, tax law, but also liability and constitutional framework conditions, addressing the specificities of Austrian sport, possible EU legal implications as well as the protection of young people while safeguarding young people's work and the interests of professional athletes. There are, of course, differences – and this has already been shown today – between professional sports and amateur sports, between top sports and wide-ranging sports. However, the wide sportsman is animated by top athletes who achieve success, and thank God we have many such in Austria. Most athletes are first amateur sportsmen, then become professional athletes and then, in some cases, go back to the amateur area. Framework conditions will be necessary. If it is discussed today that there is an insurance for recreational accidents, I must say that most recreational accidents, and we all know this, in the household and less in the exercise of sports, but we can discuss this at a different level. There are also differences between team and individual sports. This should also be taken into account, especially with regard to athletes. They are not workers in the conventional sense at present, nor are they new self-employed. On the other hand, there are also a number of minor employees, especially in the underweights. However, it must not be that way – and in this respect I give my previous speaker's right – that the whole thing should burden the small associations, but that it should be developed in the future a professional image – that is, as I mean, the most important thing in it – a professional image for professional athletes. In all cases, the foundations for integrating athletes into the existing social framework should be developed. Today, a sportsman is neither an employee nor a worker, nor is he properly socialised or insured. In any case, nails should be made with heads. The basic requirement, however, is certainly the professional image of professional sportsmen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9586	The next speaker was Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9604	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that the previous legal situation in professional sport cannot help. There is an urgent need to take into account the specificities of sport. Not only the team sport, but also the individual sport, which is often not so popular, requires these regulations urgently. This law will bring benefits not only to athletes, but also to associations, clubs and certainly especially to small clubs. The athletes and just as the clubs are moving at the moment when you take it exactly, actually in a kind of grey zone of legality. On the basis of a few examples, I would like to briefly explain the need for this professional sports law. We all know the recurring problems that exist when player contracts are terminated, especially in the field of football. If the contract is dissolved by the athlete, and if he turns to another club, the employer, i.e. the club, is only entitled to compensation for damages against the athlete. However, since the less success of a club in team sports, such as football, where there are eleven players and even more in the box, one of which is missing, is not actually detectable, this claim for compensation is a toothless penalty. In the association rules, but also in the player's contracts, a so-called standing time is provided instead. This rule states: If a sportsman closes his contract early, he cannot be notified to any other association for the remainder of the contract. – Such a sanction with a legal background would be a real incentive for every athlete to comply with concluded contracts. In any case, this would also encourage young people. Second example: The current restrictions of the maximum working time and of the Sunday and holiday rest law are incompatible with the sports business because competitions are mainly held on weekends and holidays. For example, if you saw the Bundesliga game last weekend, you must be aware that the players actually worked unlawfully. There are countless examples where one finds these grey zones in sport, in which everything is actually regulated by a kind of gentlemen’s agreement. From my point of view, the law should also include protection provisions for minors. For professional sports training facilities, difficult conditions must be created if they are to be publicly recognised. It must be in the interest of sport that young athletes receive dual training so that they can continue their career in a different way. However, such training facilities are currently unable to protect themselves against early school leaving. The result is early professional contracts of young people with long term periods, which lead to the disadvantage of lack of training. We all read over and over again about horrendous sums that are available in the sports sector when it comes to contracts, especially in the football sector. A number of athletes are constantly being led by sports intermediaries to commissions, which they then also cash, or the sports mediator calls for exclusive contracts. This could also be stopped by a professional sports law. The speaking time would even be enough to list other reasons, but I think everyone is aware of how necessary such a law is. One can only support this request for a professional sports law so that the above-mentioned grey zones are eliminated and there is a further specification of sport. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9655	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9674	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to take a very brief look at the statements made by the Secretary of State, who mentioned three risk groups of non-working accidents in terms of financing, once we call them that. It is about leisure accidents, sports accidents, but also about household accidents. He said the fats were a risk factor, the smokers and the cleaners. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the I could add that because there is another risk group, namely the professional athletes and the professional athletes themselves. I'm thinking, for example, of emaciated marathon runners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think, for example, of athletes in Austria who suffer from somnolence because they have been mistrained, for example, ski jumpers. I think we should, of course, take this group into account. Another word on the supplementary levy, which now has to be paid by any ASVG insured person or even a health insurance provider. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is € 104.6 million, 87.5 million of which in turn are paid by the ASVG insured persons and the officials. They have not yet presented a concept which shows how free the possibility of preventing time accidents. That is why your proposal must be rejected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The majority of non-work accidents are household accidents. The Secretary of State meant: Whoever is exposed to an increased risk should be insured! – Mr State Secretary! Do you want to demand that all housewives be insured? Nothing else can have meant your remarks. That is why I can only say: This proposal, which comes from you, is to be rejected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My previous speakers have already stressed the need for a professional sports law. After the Bosman judgment, the sports world stood head. Everyone said it shouldn't be, because the sport was something special. Let us note that professional athletes as well as associations and capital companies are subject to European law and also to national law. It is now about closing gaps at European and national level. These are the so-called grey zones, a state we have long watched. In this context, I consider myself to be a strict licensing procedure, but not only in football, but in all team sports. I recognise that control is also needed, because a case like Innsbruck must no longer happen in Austria. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] In Innsbruck we were faced with illegal practices, with overpaid salary demands from athletes, also with the fact that taxes were suspended as a result of a tax construction in the Federal Republic of Germany. With a professional sports law, we could create clear rules. A prerequisite for this is certainly the fact that companies operating in sports can no longer appear in association form, but only more than capital companies. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] The crucial question – and I would like to stress here – is what the status of the sportsman generally looks like. It is not just about professional sportsmen, but about the question: Self-employed or employees? And I ask whether for someone who earns €4.5 million a year, workers' status is still appropriate. But it is also about the question of when a sportsman, who is in the case of a small The association is active and regularly receives a salary or salary, generally the social security obligation is to be met, or if there is a worker-like activity. On the side of our group, I would like to say: We will not vote in favour of any regulation that would disadvantage small associations. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We also consider the issue of ownership to be essential. Here are clear words to speak. It is not portable for us that in the highest playing class one owner has several companies and uses them. We agree with the UEFA view on this point. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As a Salzburger, I can finally ask you to continue to be benevolent about our Olympic application in 2010.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9768	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9783	We have an excellent program, have got an excellent report from the IOC, and we hope that we will be on the 2nd. At 5:15 a.m., the prize for the 2010 Winter Olympics will be awarded.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9814	I am now interrupting the debate on item 4 of the agenda, so that the required examination of a urgent request may take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Josef Cap, colleagues in the Federal Government on “No pension robbery for interception hunters!” (115/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9843	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 115/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10147	I call Mr Cap to speak as an applicant for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10168	Mr President. High house! It's not the first time we've been talking about this question of the interceptors – or is it now called warplanes or airspace surveillance aircraft? - have to be entertained. Whoever has followed Mr Finanzminister's budget speech today will have seen a loving look of the former Minister of Defence have been tossed to the Minister of Finance, and this loving look has also been answered by the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Scheibner: “Loveful” is exaggerated! That's nice!]] This happened to me a little bit like a matura event, because the Minister of Finance has really taken care of the fact that his mentor, his professor, the chairman of the Matura Commission, Dr. Schüssel, is always happy with what he gives of himself today. And he can be satisfied – not with the budget, but with the one who spoke about it – in his mind, perhaps, because the Minister of Finance suddenly made a change: He didn't talk about warplanes today, but – just that he didn't say: Aerospace taxi, however, would have been too little descriptive – it has risen to the expectation of airspace surveillance aircraft to represent this impoverished and not the true background of these considerations. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You invented it, the term! This is an invention of the SPÖ, Mr Colleague.]] But as it is with the Matura – each of us will remember –: Not only the look at the mentor is important, but it's also a lot of cheating in a matura, so that you get through somehow. [[Contradict with representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't cheat! I don't know how you did the Matura!]] That's what it was today. In any case, I had this impression in the speech of the Minister for Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I didn't cheat!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] - Did I catch you? Has You all cheated at the Matura because you're so nervous? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is how I judge the way in which the Minister of Finance has expressed himself today. Now when I turn to the government bank [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel and Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein are sitting there]] I assume that at least these two members of the government will have studied our urgent request carefully or have it studied, submitted, filed. But it is the presence of these two members of the government a certain signal: First of all, it's the main thing, the German Chancellor's case – he's just too fixed on this project and wants to go through it – and next to him is the Minister of Economic Affairs, and this should somehow signal that this project also has an economic meaning somewhere. Now I can remember – and this already has a long history – that Mr Bartenstein, when the decision was made to buy the Eurofighters, had to set up a Commission in his ministry, which is precisely to check whether the counter-businesses are really counter-businesses and not frauds. At the time, Mr Federal Minister, you did not find: Three-quarters of the counter-businesses, all of which are in the media, on radio and on television, so loosely chatting in front of us, are still not there! So we should not talk about airspace surveillance, but, rightly, we need to talk about an air business here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Don't be dissatisfied. You can follow it afterwards, Mr. Bundeskanzler, but that was the accompanied music at the time when all this was decided. Now, obviously, some kind of “Slaumeier virus” has happened, because now there are budget-accompanied laws in which all this is packed. It's like on a market! There are 91 innovations and the devil knows what's going on. But that you want to give an authorization and write with the sum “xxx” is quite something special. What is “xxx”? Today, Minister Grasser tried to give a kind of lecture on households and how they can be led, how companies are to be led or how clubs can be held, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Hopefully it was useful, Mr. Cap!]] He talked about what ordinary merchants have to do, that they always have to look: What is on the revenue side, what is on the expenditure side, and what is the price? What's the price? Go to the car house Grasser and say [[Abg. May. Posch: There's no more!]] You there: I want a car now for the price xxx? – There you will be looked strange! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Greens.]] Or go shopping computer for your club to make the club a little more modern, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, and say: Mr Club Secretary! Cost can it cost xxx!? – This will now be the new xxx formula to express the particular economic awareness in this government. Mr Bundeskanzler – and also Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, because also You should actually be a decent merchant, otherwise you wouldn't be sitting there as an economic minister! Please puzzle us this “x”, and don’t come with XXXLutz, because this is a furniture house, that doesn’t apply. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is sluggish advertising!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You take everything very “serious”!]] We want to know: What is “xxx”? What numbers are behind that? Of course you have problems with numbers. I remember – I have a great long-term memory today! –: You once said these warplanes will cost €1.8 billion. Then “The press”, a “very” left-wing radical sheet, as we all know, wrote: Wait, that's just the "naked" plane! There are “naked” aircraft in the professional language, and there are aircraft that are already a little uplifted. – Mr Ex-Development Minister! There you start to beam right away, which is possible, which you can put everything in there on various missiles and other devices. [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: No! You're such an expert, I'm just wondering!]] The whole thing then suddenly comes to €2.3 and € 2.4 billion! Mr. St. Bartenstein! What's half a billion €? They've been lost somewhere in the papers you've created. You will find them again on the last page, - No!, I say, so a decent merchant cannot act! Unfortunately, the Maturant is not here now, otherwise he might be able to speak again. So: We need to know how high the price is. But what else do we need to know? If you send the club secretary – you need to modernise the club a little bit – to a computer company, you can't say either: We need 20 computers! Oh, what, 25! No, I think we only need 18! We only need 18 computers. - Great! So again, xxx, as far as the number is concerned. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Another nervous chatter behind me on the government bank. What is it? Discuss You're out of the number right now? So what do we want to know? – We want to know how many planes, which aircraft – in the example I have shown: what computer? – and how high the price is. This is, I believe, a very legitimate approach, because – please to all taxpayers who are gathered here – we all have to pay for it, and we want to know what it costs. Now I'm saying something basic. Actually, we don't want to pay it and don't order it – and actually we don't need it. This is even the beginning! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] So: Economically – since there are also three-quarters of the counter-businesses in the air – no one knows how this is going to happen, you have to set up your own control committee – I think, this is negotiated, even if you then speak and try to explain it again in flowering words. I see it from the counter-businesses and also not as economically as you do. You have to find out. [[Abg. Scheibner: Ask your comrade Androsch!]] In the event that there is a reason behind this, we have called for an investigation committee, which is already a number of times. More! The willingness to grant the opposition the right at all to set up investigation committees, this willingness was to end, because – whether that were the exploratory talks or whether those were the talks between the parties – the government parties have always said: We want there to be no such right for the opposition – brackets on: We don't want an investigation committee to buy the Eurofighters! Clutter closed! That was actually the message you sent out here. Therefore, as a learned Austrian, I have to ask myself the question: Why do you say that? What do you have to hide from us that you don't say: With the Investigation Committee! As Federal Chancellor and as Minister, I am interested in the fact that there is light coming into the dark! - No, you don't say that, you say the opposite. There seems to be something wrong, therefore here again the demand: There is a need to open up the possibility that there are committees of inquiry. You see, each argument is actually an argument for a procurement stop, and that is the very purpose of our urgent request that you can support afterwards. But it's not alone either. Is it security policy? What is it? Or is it simple and simple this – how should I say? – from the Federal Army's opinion that there are us on land, on water and in the air? – Unfortunately, we are no longer in the water, because in Pula and Trieste we are no longer. Yes, if you also want Danube monitors and a underwater boat for the Danube, please submit this request and put it to the discussion. I don't see any sense anymore, because since locks have been installed there, submarines would have a somewhat narrow radius. [[Abg. Scheibner: Ask honourable Member Gaál, he knows better than you!]] Now there will be some who say: No, but it doesn't just have to be on land, a little in the water, but also in the air, because the weapons holes have always been there. – I say: With this attitude – namely: It's always been! – was changed from the front loader to the rear loader at the time too late, so we lost the battle at Königgrätz in 1866. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Greens.]] – This is my conclusion from the attitude that has always been there. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was rather an argument, Mr. Cot!]] That is why I say to you: That can't be an argument either. And security policy? – slowly surrounded by either NATO countries or EU Member States, Schengen countries: I do not understand the argument with regard to security policy and why these war planes are suddenly acquired. Now comes the main point – and that is the summit of cynicism! –: You have introduced a budget-accompanied law here – you could almost say: attack-like. They always say: Parliament is the place where this can then be democratically negotiated, but as it now looks, it should be whipped through as quickly as possible. There is also no structural willingness to negotiate, but we will still have to discuss this separately. In this budget accompanying law, please include burdens and scrappings that seek to be equal to them. And the cynic is the following: That you are now creating the connection you have always denied, in the form that you want to bring 2 billion € over these loads between 2004 and 2007 and at the same time signal the population that 2 billion € from the pension cuts and the 2 billion € from the loads are to be invested in the purchase of the warplanes. That's what you're saying to the Austrians, and we're talking about it. Such a policy cannot be represented against the population! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You know: Their pension reductions will be between 18 and 40 percent in à la longue, and women will be particularly affected by these cuts. In the urgent request to study you now had time, we have listed individual case examples so that you can see more plastically what this “pension reform” is really like, namely a pension reduction. [[Abg. Scheibner: Talk a little bit about the pension reform, Mr. Cot! We are all waiting for you to tell us something about the pension reform! Tell us something about your concept!]] On the one hand, therefore, these pension reductions, on the other hand, the refusal to reduce taxes. – I listened carefully today: The Minister of Finance said: Our aim is to achieve a tax reduction in 2005. – Our goal! Well, that's relative. Just as everything is arbitrary and relative, Federal Chancellor, it is... [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: It was also the goal to make the year 2003 the year of harvest!]] Yes, we work up from year to year, and then it'll be called: But 2006, and: Something's not going on, and: Now we are not bringing anything together again in the administrative reform, and the state reform is no longer going on, and we are not saving ourselves any money either. Devil, devil!, we have to move the tax reduction back around a year. – So it means that the goal is it, not, it will be 2005. It means the goal is it! And there is something to add to the acquisition of these warplanes: the training of pilots, the expansion of airfields, spare parts, maintenance – that costs a fortune! Why don't you make the effort to talk to experts from the Federal Army about it? They're just going to shake their head. There is still this solidarity between the so-called weapons holes, but ask those who are responsible for transport, communication, radio, barracks, supply, artillery, tanks, those who crush the asparagus in the march field with the old LEOPARD! [[Abg. Scheibner: “Old LEOPARD ”? You live in the past! The most modern device there is!]] Ask all the people what they say about the fact that a single gun hole – just so that we can continue to breathe – costs so much money! Ask them once! – Under the hand, these will tell you things that you will only shake your head, Mr. former Minister of Defense! Mr Bundeskanzler, you know that anyway, but you are obviously indifferent. – I'm just showing you what kind of links there are here. I recapitulate: no tax reduction, no fixed date, taxes from 2004 to 2007 in the order of € 2 billion, pension reductions like never before in the Second Republic – for the first time in this form, as it now stands – and all this you do primarily so that you can buy these warplanes. And that against the background of record unemployment! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Where are your employment measures? Where do you try to take anticyclic measures? Where do you use to set employment impulses? Where's that? What to do You there? - Nothing! They focus on this one goal, together with other objectives that are more dampening, which do not stimulate employment that does not stimulate growth. That's what you're focusing on! And of course you do one, namely: shorten, shorten, shorten! This will also have an impact on the willingness to go into consumption. [[Abg. Großruck: There is no longer the “consumer”!]] They spread fears like no other! People are afraid because they can no longer plan their lives because they have relied on things that they can no longer rely on now, because the protection of your trust does not apply to you. Explore yourself in the shops, in the trophies, in the paper stores wherever you drive around [[Call the ÖVP: We're not driving around!]] What is the economic situation like? And: What are the consequences? The statement by Mr Finanzminister, a “not too much of pessimism” was treacherous. What does that mean: a not too much pessimism? – In the teletext it is now again. – That means: We in the government are all pessimistic because we have now understood what economic policy we are doing. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: A very good one!]] So deep pessimism. All of you should sit down with a sad view here. That would be appropriate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And then the Minister of Finance even admits it! But he says: not too much pessimistic! Dear Austrians, a little blood, a little sweat, a little tears – after all, there is no world war, but almost. – So about the message we heard today. Now go inside – you all sitting here and kindly listening, and ask yourself the question regarding... – No, no! [[Abg. Scheibner: One can only keep inside!]] Telling each other how great you are in the ÖVP club and FPÖ club is not an art! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That's where the general nod comes from – that's not art! Go out into the constituency! Go out to your constituency and take a stand for the population there! [[New congratulations to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We have tried to conduct events in a number of ways, including representatives of the ÖVP and the FPÖ – say: Invite members of the National Council of ÖVP and FPÖ, and I say to you: There's no one else, no one of the people! Be brave at last! Come on. You finally! Make yourself known to the citizens' assemblies! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You don't. They hide in your political test tube, in your rex glass down in the club, instead of standing up to the population and saying: [[Abg. Steibl: That's a premise!]] Yes, it is really a community that we trust in it, but we stand by the social community. We are facing social imbalances. We're standing up to the government's plan. – Be loyal also in the constituency! Chickens You don't go to bed under the spell and say You don't: I don't know anything, I don't see anything, I don't hear anything! That's too little! In the end, politics cannot be made that way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Of course, you could also improve your personal situation by supporting our citizens' initiative to hold a referendum. I'll tell you something. In your constituency, that would bring you something. And don't forget: The next election day will certainly come! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It will be special for you a payday. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is more silence in the first series. I can tell you why. – They will be sitting here again after the next election day. In the middle and upper ranks there is suddenly so strange excitement. I can tell you that the excitement is justified, because if this government continues to do so, you will no longer be sitting there. That's why I told you I'm at your disposal as an advisor. Prevent this policy! Voices Finally, you will agree with our policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10656	In order to deliver an opinion, the Federal Chancellor has notified himself. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10675	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The urgent request, which Josef Cap has formulated, deals on six out of seven pages with the alleged robbing of pensions and is addressed to the Federal Government. – Deputies! You will understand, therefore, that I feel addressed as the head of the Federal Government, and I believe that I have to correct some facts here. They have given examples of the need for language pictures which I believe are not in line with reality. I am therefore very grateful that I have the opportunity to explain here some topics and some priorities of this federal government after the very successful and today also showing Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser. Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser has shown impressively in his budget speech today that this federal government, with great care, energy and care, is turning to and devoted to the real problems of the future of the country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We consolidate the budget. We reduce administrative expenditure and at the same time invest in a difficult economic situation in those areas which are particularly important: Education and research, infrastructure and many other areas. Only a few numbers are appropriate if you have missed listening during the budget speech: In 1999 a total of €7.5 billion was spent on education. In 2004, we will spend over €9 billion. This is exactly the right impulse for economic growth, for quality and thus for future security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will spend €2.4 billion on infrastructure compared to €1.7 billion in 1999. This is an increase for rail and road especially in the sense and in the light of the enlargement of the European Union by almost 50 percent! This is precisely the focus that needs to be made to prepare Austria optimally for enlargement, and which is also of great importance for the employment, economic and labour market situation. We have announced a burden in this budget in a difficult time. There are already two economic programmes, and with the tax relief now operating from 1. ==References====External links== We permanently have a billion € in discharge in advance of sales tax and a one-way increase in sales tax revenue. – So exactly the right signal in this situation, at this time, to really do something for people in the economy, for jobs. We give people hope and don't scare them like you, Josef Cap. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The result can also be seen. Despite the difficulties we have, we actually have a very good employment situation. Forget You don't: ==References== May 2003 – perhaps you have missed it at the May celebrations – we had a record employment. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Never before have so many people, namely, 3 166 million people, been in work as this one. ==References== For this we thank the economy and the innovative power of the employees. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have weak growth rates, but at least significantly higher than Germany, Italy, Switzerland and the Netherlands. These are some countries where we would otherwise like to measure ourselves. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You dream!]] – This is not a dream, it is God’s thanks to living reality, Mr. Deputies, wake up! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The same applies to international competitiveness. Of course, it is not that we can achieve virtually every second euro in international competition today. And for the first time since 1945, we have a trade surplus, we have a current account surplus, and that is not self-evident. Of course, the economy and those who achieve these successes in the markets are primarily responsible for this. But this also includes the framework conditions that are better in Austria than in other European countries, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have a problem, and that's the generation contract. You know, I'm because we're trying to mess things up with reality and just tell people the problem. This problem is not a political one, to say that very clearly. [[Call the SPÖ:Handler!]] – Deputies! Please listen a little bit, then, as I believe, we can also conduct an objective discussion process, which people also expect from us here in the House. It's not supposed to be disputed. There are also arguments to be exchanged, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today we have five generations living at the same time. One or even a little more than one generation is in education, two generations are practically already in retirement, and two generations are in the work process. If this relationship continues to deteriorate at the expense of those who are at work, the generation contract is seriously in danger. The problem, therefore, is not so much that we do something, but we should have done the right thing before. The question is: How can you make it optimal? And we're not that far apart at all. If you honestly represent your concept here – and I have read it as critically and openly as you probably have our concepts – then I have to say that we want to do the same in the final development: a system – after unification also of the age of male and female pensioners – after which both sexes can enter the pension together with 65 after long transitional periods. This is a proposal which, as I think, should and should not be disputed. The second question is that, in order to receive 80 percent as a pension, 45 years of insurance must be taken into account in terms of average income. You can now discuss this, we say: For 40 years, the five worst years shall be reckoned, they shall fall away. One could, of course, also reply with an appreciation of certain times in the future. These are topics to be discussed in detail. One should take time for this life throughput. We're doing this: 25 years, as I think, are a sufficient period of time. And to ensure that an additional option is given with a second and third pillar, which is offered in addition to the first-class state pension, which is tax-privileged, so that each individual or company can do something additional for its employees. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Look, there are the big differences!]] I think that is one thing that is actually absolutely reasonable. Now we are dealing with the crucial question of when we are harmonizing these systems. I'm a contemporary now, too. Since 1986, in six government negotiations, we have tried to continue to discuss these issues honestly. This has never been completely pushed away, but it has just been done by Grillparzer's method with half-hearted half-way with half-step-lengths, so it has been made too little. It didn't happen in time. In my opinion, we should not dispute that we cannot wait another ten years and can move things, but should now act in the interests of the coming generations. The social partners used to know exactly that. Mr Verzellnitsch, of course, knows the 1991 Advisory Council's study. There is essentially nothing else inside than that the average actual retirement age should be increased by four years. - Please, we won't do anything else. On average, we increase the retirement age by about three and a half to five years in a long-term period. By the way, this is exactly what the European Union – also discussed here in the House – has set as a goal for 2010, namely to extend the actual lifetime by five years by 2010. It's not new, it's not a robbery. These are topics that have been discussed for 12 years and longer and are now ready for decision. Another thing that belongs to it from my point of view: We should also take the obvious uncertainty of people very seriously on the basis of yesterday's discussions and protests yesterday. [[Abg. Oillinger: (keeping a document in height) With him, Mr. Bundeskanzler? To servas! If that's an information!]] As I now ask – and I am not saying this critically in one direction yet, but I think that is quite the same with the information provided by the Vorarlberg Chamber of Workers – with the words of Mr Oellinger. Words such as “pension harvesting, ” “mass healing, ” or “mass poverty ” do not contribute to less uncertainty! They may be, I think, more concerned with the fact that even more people are afraid than they may have to do because of the present problematic generation, contract or demographic situation. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Therefore, please also be careful in your language! In my opinion, we should reply with facts. These facts are perfectly clear and clear: Austria will have the best-equipped pension system in the world before and after the reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We spend 14.5% of our gross domestic product on pensions, after us Italy comes with almost 14 percent, Greece with 12.5, France with 12, Germany with 11.8 percent. This will essentially not change, a few tenths on or off, anything. That is why we do not pretend to be suddenly on the agenda for the collapse of our successful social system! On the contrary: If we act now, we will actually ensure good, solid retirement, not only for the present generations, but also for the coming ones. The ten points which I would like to present here again are the key points of this reform, as I believe, undisputed among most people. [[Call the SPÖ: What about the interceptors?]] First: No intervention in the two million existing pensions. – That is, I believe, very important, fair and just! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Whoever might go to retirement now, but prefer to work longer, will not have any disadvantages due to this reform. Nothing changes, no deposits, no extended calculation times, nothing. Third point – very important for older workers –: The age-part-time is extended. For the future, however, we expect that the companies they are using will also be recruited by replacement workers, which by the way, by the way, has been constantly encouraged by the social partners. Fourth point: Child care periods are much better recognised than last, and women are deducted for three years per child in the calculation. Due to the limitation of losses, covers, real hardness cases are avoided. The calculation period is extended for more than 25 years. That's what I'm saying now, because your example, in turn, brings the famous 40 or 50 percent minus: Mr Cap, I do not think this is fair intellectually. You know as well as we do that we want a new system with the new individual pension account, which will then enter into force after this transitional period for the cover. But I have no problem at all to write this into the law. There will be no gap between 2028 and the individual pension account. So it is meant, and so it is executed. So stop using these examples with minus 40 and minus 50 percent! These are insidious and do not correspond to reality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Fifth, you open a bottle Early pensions run out gradually in ten years until 2013, i.e. ten years of transition, and the increase in the amount of increase, which has been made at once, from 1.78 to 2 per cent, i.e. a pension increase in 2000, which nobody has honoured and which is not useful, is now being reduced again in three years after this transitional period. At the same time – sixth point – we decide on a package of measures for older workers with a massive reduction in the additional wage costs for older people: 6 percent if a woman is over 56 years of age or a man over 58 years of age, and even 12 percent for over 60 years of age. All over 50-year-olds receive a right to training. The age-part-time – already mentioned – continues to exist. Seventeenths: If you have 40 or 45 years of contributions by 2007, you can continue to retire at 55 or 60 years of age. As of 2007, there will even be a permanent right for heavy workers in this area. [[Abg. Oillinger: No, you can't do that!]] I think this is a great idea that the Vice-Cancellor has developed, to which we stand at 100 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Next point: The preparation of the merger of the various pension systems has already begun. This will be a major topic in autumn. You are cordially invited to cooperate here. And it is not suppressed or postponed, but it is an absolutely important concern for us. And tenth: All measures are applied one to one plus a noticeable solidarity contribution also to political pensions. I believe that this ten-point programme is one that you can and should discuss fairly and openly here in the House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the SPÖ:Sol!]] - Yes, of course. Therefore, please come out and talk here! We don't need to insult each other. That's not the style, and that doesn't make sense at all. But very concrete arguments are welcome here at any time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There are a lot of experts talking about these days. One of the most interesting is Christopher Prinz, who is one of the top experts in pension law within the OECD in Paris. He described this reform in these days, which I have just outlined. He says: One should “no longer wait, because the existing regulations themselves have a significant impact on the extremely low employment rates of persons over fifty years of age. ” The short transitional periods are often criticized. But he says that these deadlines are “conceivable. ” ‘For the following shall apply: The faster the reform measures take place, the more fair the treatment of different generations and the less the excessive burden on today’s 35-year-olds.” He goes on to say: “The extension of the calculation from 15 to forty years is the real core of the reform – and a long-standing demand virtually all experts.” I believe that on such a basis one can quite discuss, and one will insist that in fact many examples, many fears that you have brought here, simply do not correspond to reality, to reality check, to reality test. Ladies and gentlemen! But we already see – and this is interesting compared with the last three years – that the measures we took in 2000 are effective, not as you have claimed by having a record unemployment. Josef Cap, I can remind you in this context of the figures: ==References== At least around 300 unemployed in May 2003 were less than in 1999. There can therefore be no reference to record unemployment. In the years 1996 to 1999, we had increasingly higher unemployment rates than at present. There are currently even 90 000 jobs more than in 1999. [[Abg. Thank you: McJobs!]] If you are now taking the older employees – that was your fear – I can tell you that today we have around 26 000 people over 55 years old more in employment than in 1999. However, the number of unemployed is only 2 000 higher. That is, it is also very clear that the measures that have led to a stronger working capacity of older people are absolutely useful. We also know that, according to studies by the Economic Research Institute, there will be a need for additional workers in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I would like to make clear here in all clarity: We will not save € 2 billion with the pension insurance reform, as you claim, at best 500 to 600 million net. That is why it is absurd once from the number that you can finance something that would cost 2 billion. However, I guarantee that no single euro from a social budget will be used, for example, for the necessary security tasks in the area of the federal army or executive. That is not a question at all, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] One thing cannot be said to be such a quick adoption of history. My predecessor, Federal Chancellor climate – he will not be entirely foreign to you, even if he is now far away from Austria – has declared publicly at a meeting of the National Defence Council in November 1998: Yes, the follow-up decision for the airspace surveillance aircraft – the term does not come from me, but from the old Chancellor Alfred Sinowatz and his successors – will be the task of the next Federal Government. In the past legislative period, we had a contract not signed by all but jointly negotiated, that we take airspace surveillance seriously. The former Federal Government has done this task. The Court of Auditors has arranged two parts of the review. The first review is already under way, with regard to the issue of tendering and the question of planning. There are no indications that the call for tender would have been guided, said the President of the Court of Auditors on 1 July 1989. October 2002 I also say: In the light of the Iraq crisis, the model case showed just how important it is that a country like Austria still has a functioning air defense and airspace surveillance. [[Call the SPÖ: Is over!]] – We have had since the 11th. September 2001 84 times the alarm, many surveillance and identification flights were carried out, which were urgently necessary. I therefore believe that we should not subjugate ourselves. It is a task of a comprehensive policy to show that we can cope with many things at the same time. First-class training for our youth, secure jobs through reasonable investment and economic frameworks, security measures for executives and federal authorities, a good health and pension insurance system. You shouldn't play one against the other. Good policy must be successful everywhere! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Coming to a conclusion: I believe that it has also been right to present to the House a law on institutions which can only be adopted by the National Council if the negotiations with EEAS and the economic groups offering counter-actions are concluded, otherwise the competent Ministers for Defence and Economic Affairs could not conclude any corresponding contracts. The House will, of course, be informed correctly, comprehensively and transparently about all the operations, and it is also clear that such a decision must be made before the summer, because, as has been said, the price offers will apply until 30. June. Another expectation, however, caused damage to the Austrian taxpayer and thus to the state. I believe that the process is correct. As soon as the Treaties are ready for signature, the National Council or the National Defence Council will be informed. You will receive all relevant information.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10955	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mrs Silhavy has spoken. I'd like to set the clock to 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10979	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! Mr Bundeskanzler, I am quite with you when you say that we should not play this against the other. But that is exactly the policy you are making, because you always play the workers at the expense of other interests. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! It seems to me – not only because you are sitting up here raised or before – as if you were on a stage, because you no longer feel the reality and the distress of the people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! They speak of caution, future-oriented and dialogue. They do not engage in dialogue with the social partners or with the citizens of this country if your emails come back as “unreadly deleted”. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Because they don't come!]] Federal Chancellor! It is similar here in the house when we talk about the exchange of arguments. A pension reform, as you call it verbatim, is dealt with in a budget accompanying law and not even in the committee responsible for it. So serious is the dialogue, so serious is the exchange of arguments from your point of view. – Mr Bundeskanzler! That's not our policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They said that was the right signal, and they mean that now impulses would be set. We've been demanding this for months. During your Federal Chancellery, we have the highest unemployment rates in Austria. We have more than 40 000 unemployed people in the annual average of last year. You didn't do anything, you watched, you didn't take any action. You threaten the unemployed with your government program by saying that emergency aid will be abolished in the future. Federal Chancellor! This is white cynicism, and that is not a forward-looking policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who says emergency aid will be abolished, Mrs. Colleague? Who says that?]] Federal Chancellor! They are always talking about the future and about research and education. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's really scary what you're doing! You know exactly that's not true what you're saying here!]] The officials are suddenly included in the budget for education and research. [[Abg. Scheibner: You are insecure the population with your wrong arguments!]] These are not additional costs for education and research, but the officials are included in this budget. That's another mogel pack, Mr. Federal Chancellor! We don't leave that in the room, we'll show it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! It is not only a provocation if you decide, at the same time as the most massive social reduction in this Second Republic concerning pensions and health care, to purchase sinterous interception hunters, but that is a completely removed, ice-cold and humane policy. On the other hand, we defend ourselves and with us also many citizens! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! You tried to speak up again. You know very well, the so-called hackler rule – we do not like the expression, but it is obviously influenced by the FPÖ – lasts until 2006, then 56.5 or 61.5 years apply from 2007 onwards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick]] As of 2007, the change in the increase amount will add 11 percent and, at least, the increase in the reductions to 4.2 percent. [[Abg. Scheibner: That this is a permanent arrangement, the “hackler rule”, you forget!]] All this is a mogel pack, Mr. Federal Chancellor! That's what your own representatives of ÖAAB and FCG say. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! The women are even tossed by you. That says great, the basis of assessment for child education is increased by 150 percent by 2028. Yeah, what does that mean? – 150 percent, exactly, even better! [[Abg. Scheibner: 150!]] That's the real reason. It's not about 150, it's just 150 percent. There we are at about 1 000 € in 2028. [[Abg. Scheibner: We want to be exact, Mrs. Colleague!]] Then we're exactly at the value we have today. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Do you consider that to be an improvement? – This is unfair, unfair and unsocial, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially young people lose dramatically because of the non-social calculation. If you say, in 2028, there will be the new pension system, then I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, which you obviously want to decide here: [[Abg. Neudeck: There you need an hour for the actual correction!]] Why do we not decide in autumn a system that is a complete pension reform if the measures are to be implemented only from 2004 onwards? [[Abg. Scheibner: We can do that!]] We've got time for it. But you don't want it. Why don't you want it? - Because you need the money from the ASVG area for your budget and the interceptors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Listen once something is said!]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They will abolish early retirement in the event of unemployment. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] 12,000 people are affected. They're not doing anything! [[Abg. Scheibner: Which secretary has written this to you? That's supposed to be a discourse?- Oh, my God!]] They're creating an old-age transition fee. The age transition allowance is not a replacement solution, you know that very well. You're abandoning these people you haven't done anything for before. This is not a forward-looking policy, and we therefore reject it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! People feel the intention behind their policies. [[Calls and counter-calls between honourable Members Mag. Worms and discs.]] It's not about pension insurance, it's about social disassembly. They increasingly say goodbye to the social state, instead you invest in combat aircraft. This is cynicism, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! That's not where the most beautiful word creations will help you. There is nothing to help you with brochures – probably paid again by taxpayers. I would like to end with a quote that does not come from me, but from Mr Erwin Zankel of the “Small Newspaper”, which is not considered particularly close to us: The Federal Chancellor was led in front of his eyes and ears that he had reached his border and had already crossed it. You can't deal with much of the population so coldly. - Quote. How true, Federal Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11259	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'd like to set the clock to 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11278	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, the next election day will certainly come! [[Abg. May. Worm: For you!]] But the people's electoral behaviour will be determined by a very special one, namely by the trust factor. I'll tell you: Trust. [[Yes-runch and detonatative acclaim of the abg. May. Worm.]] You may have listened to the Minister of Finance today. In his excellent budget speech, in addition to many other correct points, he has shaped a good sentence when he said: [[Abg. Oils: Yes, Grasser students! You can sit down again!]] “Trust is extremely important – in social, economic and political cooperation.” “You acquire trust by acting when there is a need for action, and by holding fast to the goals set – sometimes also against resistance.” [[Abg. Oils: Wonderful, beautiful, repeat!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Wonderful!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you are still among those who believe that we do not need action, then you have to remember briefly the following: [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Very sparse!]] The birth rates have fallen, not least in the time you have set Federal Chancellor and Social Minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] The birth figures are stagnating and are only rising very slightly since we have been making family policy by ÖVP and FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Lifetime is now 37 years old, previously 42 years old. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: We are also to blame for this!]] The pension period has increased from 8.3 years to 20 years. At the age of retirement, we are now so far away that only 3 percent of the population even retire in the regular retirement age, at the statutory retirement age of 65 or 60 years. [[Abg. Dobnigg: Each second goes from the unemployed or from the emergency to the pension!]] We are now at 32 billion total for our pensions. That's 15 percent of the gross domestic product. This is world record, ladies and gentlemen! We also have to take 5.5 percent of the gross social product out of the budget pot as co-financing, as a contribution to pensions. [[Abg. For whom?]] This value is also a record in Europe at least. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] What are you doing, ladies and gentlemen? – Do you believe that you can gain confidence in people by removing these problems? Don't you also think of the consequences that we would have to bear in ten, in 20, in 25 years due to the displacement and non-negotiation? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] We can choose it, Mr Matznetter: Either the federal grant doubles by 2030 or the contribution rates rise by 50 percent, or the pensions are to be reduced by 45 percent, or the retirement age should be increased by 11 years. Is that what you want? [[Abg. Eder: That's bullshit!]] But I could still live with it, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if you just wanted to remove the problem and let us do our work. However, you are contrasting with what we have to do, namely to act in the event of a given need for action, by spreading untruths, worrying people that you are damaging the economic location and causing political strikes, and that, in a very populist way, you are polishing a distribution struggle for limited budget resources. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Since you don't believe it, I bring some examples of untruth. On page one of your urgent request, you claim that pension insurance reform for persons with 45 years of contribution will bring at least 18 percent less pension. On page two you object to this yourself, since you cite an example that someone with 45.5 years of contribution loses only 9 percent. Yeah, what's right now? – Probably not both. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: Mr Silhavy said earlier that we want to abolish emergency aid. - That's a half-truth! The fact is that the government programme says that it should be converted. The fact is, however, that they are to be converted without material deterioration for those concerned. [[Abg. May. Prammer: It's not inside!]] [[Abg. Where's that?]] That is a semi-truth that is deliberately used, Mrs Colleague! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Gradwell: You make an insurance performance!]] Furthermore, to damage the economic location by strike: They take the unparticipant, in this case the economy, the entrepreneurs as hostages, taking on a strike that has now cost our economy €100 million and now even announces – Mr Bittner of the printer union said – that: If all of this is of no use, we will demand possible losses from pensioners during the collective treaty negotiations in autumn. That means you're even going here and saying that if the one I'm asking for the ransom doesn't pay, I'm asking for the hostage. This is a shame, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They go even further: They block the operation of a colleague of this House, pointing out that she was a member of a government party and represented this pension reform. They put economic pressure on freely elected Members. This is a democratic scandal of first rank! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Awesome!]] Ladies and gentlemen, now to populist agitation in a distribution struggle. Budgetary resources that we are spending on the pension system are taxpayers. Tax funds must be generated, earned, especially in the economy. But we also have other tasks in our state system: Education, infrastructure, research and development, safety. We really need more money for everything. They are now making a urgent request and title it “Pension Robber for Catchers. ” Ladies and gentlemen! First: With the word “pension harvesting” I cannot begin anything, I will subsequently use the word “pension reform”. There are, of course, different popular state tasks, I like to admit. Defence and security tasks may not be one of the most popular but also one of the most necessary. Changed, you might as well call the title of your urgent request “pension reform for education”, “pension reform for research” or “pension reform for infrastructure”. You play out necessary state tasks against each other, and I tell you the following: We are making this pension reform not for education, not for interceptors, not for infrastructure, but for the safety of pensions. – That’s it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, a part of the above quote of Minister for Finance Grasser: “Trust is acquired by action when there is a need for action.” – We stick to it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11566	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is now on the floor. I'd like to put the clock at 10 minutes. Madam Member, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11585	Ladies and gentlemen! I have already heard a lot of urgent requests in this House, but I have not yet experienced one who is so inaccurate, who is understated by such misinformation and who is so incitent in this House. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The applicant's justification is then also made in a cabaret manner which is supposed to be funny, but which no one can laugh at – the Social Democrats are obliged to laugh and praise, but otherwise no one can really laugh, for with such a reason you mock Parliament and question your own request, Mr Cap! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] First of all, I would like to focus on the fact that in your request – and you do so in the political argumentation – you are constantly facing the purchase or purchase of retired hunters of pension reform or pension rights. I would like to say to you: No matter how you stand with the interceptors, whether you think Austria needs them or Austria does not need them, this mutual billing is simply politically inadmissible. The state, the government has various tasks, including defence, education, social affairs and so on. It's not possible for someone to come suddenly tomorrow and say we don't need culture, we don't need the state opera, we're saving up a million grants every day to the state opera and we're taking the money to finance social issues or anything else! Please let the mutual calculation stay, it is quite simply unscrupulous! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Moreover, the proposed pension reform does not mean that the money will be scratched together for any government expenditure, but it is about consolidating the budget and pensions because it has shown that it is not possible with the old system to regulate long-term pension insurance. I mean, that's what you've got to face! But You know it anyway, only you believe that with this permanent uncertainty of the population you can beat political little money. I do not really know why you are in complete uncertainty about the people of the SPÖ with all your power. Either it is because you have for decades failed to implement this pension reform, which now has to be started, because you yourself have dragged it away, when you have still put Federal Chancellors and Social Ministers, or because you simply want to beat political small money out of this pension scheme, which is painful but necessary for the population. – But probably both are right, and both are quite simply objectionable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They have – like all of us – heard from the Minister of Finance, which everyone knows anyway, what is actually a sense of mind: No one can spend more than take in the long term. This applies, of course, to the state. What everyone knows about the private budget is that this should not apply to the state any more? – You have to make this clear to the population. I'm convinced that everyone understands. Mr Cap has said that we should go to the population and talk to the people. – We do, too, and people realize that it is necessary to take serious measures because they have not been taken over the last 20 years. [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of SPÖ) You have been hiding from the population for ten years!]] It's already been cut: Austria has the most expensive pension system in the world and unfortunately a system by which pensions are not secured until 2020 or 2030. Even unwarranted experts, for example from the Chamber of Workers, have found that within the next 40 years, contributions should either be increased by 53 percent or pensions reduced by 45 percent or retirement age increased by ten years if the pension reform is not implemented. How long do you think it's going well? How long, do you think, will the then working people like it, that they have to deliver half of their income so that pensioners come to their pension? Then the generation agreement will surely break apart, and we want to prevent that, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We do not want to make a policy which, from today's point of view, holds up to tomorrow, but rather we want to make a policy through which the young people who are entering work today can also look at their evenings with some confidence and know that this generation, which is now in the government, has also been responsible for the fact that they are still able to get a pension. Today's generation, which is now the government, must have the necessary far-reaching vision and must do everything possible to ensure that today's young people still have a pension claim in 2020 and in 2030. As unscrupulous as your urgent request is, this is already reflected in the first sentence. They write that there will be a massive burden on sick people, through unsocial restraint. The only right thing about this sentence is that there is an authorisation for the main association of social security funds to introduce a self-holding. How high he is, in which form he comes, is not at all fixed at all, and you are already claiming that he will be unsocial, that the sick people will be massively burdened. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The only thing that is established is the sepulchres.]] This is your invention, and I think it is really bad – I don't know if I get a call for an order, but I recognize this wording – that you are doing such an uncertainty here in Parliament and that you are still carrying it out. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party! Already, it is ensured that the chronically ill, the socially weak and the children do not fall under this restraint. Take note of this and do not continue to spread such false claims! You know, that reminds me of the following: When the cabinet “Schüssel I” entered office, it was also about self-serving, and Mr. Kostelka, then Clubobmann of the Social Democratic Party, claimed on television that every Austrian would have to make a self-hold in an operation. [[Call to the liberals:Pfui!]] – No word of that was true! A pure invention! None of that happened. Mr Kostelka is not afraid of such an uncertainty on the population. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: He really informed her!]] That is absolutely unscrupulous. You have kept it wrong since then. This is probably true of what Mr Cap said: You're going through to Matura. He probably did so to the social-democratic colleagues too, so you insist that the population continues to dwindle, just because it fits one's pace. Your political strategy is obviously to insure the population, but far from it you have come, because your opposition policy is nowhere to be praised. Everyone even insists that you make a bad opposition policy, which does not surprise me because you never come up with a constructive plan. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Muttons: submission!]] You never put something in the form that you say, so you should do it! Then I would like to say something about the “hackler rule” In your urgent request, you have just picked out the most unfavorable example that is already leading to injustices or incisive measures, and now you say that the “hackler rule” would generally worsen. [[Abg. Gaál: There is no “hackler rule”!]] – By 2007, there is this “hackler rule” unchanged, and then there is a permanent regime for people who really work hard. That's, I think, also right. [[Abg. Silhavy: The Dolinschek said it's too short until 2007!]] [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: That's allowed!]] The people who work hard should also be better placed under pension law. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I see the greatest indebtedness in the fact that you blame the government for not having exercised a common pension right. For 50 years, the Social Democrats have almost consistently put the Social Minister in place – and they have not brought it to the fore, since harmonisation is being carried out! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Nothing brought together!]] And now they're demanding that of us. Even Mr Verzetznitsch has watched the ÖBB employees and workers retire at 54 years of age – and you have all done nothing over the last 50 years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Conscious: Now they reduce it to 52!]] And we should now reform the entire system in three years' time. Ladies and gentlemen! Play Please don't act as if you were protecting the population! [[Abg. Gaal: We did it!]] In reality, the population is protected from your insurance campaign!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11849	Mr Puswald spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure: The facts to be corrected will be presented in 2 minutes – and then the right one. Please don't make a political statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11870	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! Mr Kopf has just said that the purchase of interceptors is a necessary task. – This claim is incorrect! [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not an actual correction! That's incredible! Abuse of the Rules of Procedure!]] It is true that the necessary state tasks are finally regulated in the federal constitution. The purchase of interception hunters is not mentioned in the federal constitution with any word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11942	Mr President, this has certainly not been an actual correction. Next time, I'll give you an order call in such a case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. He'll speak for seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11972	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Remarkably, in the speech of the Federal Chancellor, I found that he – literally – made himself available as a “time witness”: as a witness to the failure of all the former Federal Governments since 1986, when it came to a pension reform. This is remarkable in that it is already an improvement compared to the previous state when one could have thought that the ÖVP was obviously not in the Federal Government at all. You, Mr Bundeskanzler, have at least been a contemporary witness to the Federal Government and its failure in relation to the pension reform. But I would have expected a little more honesty, Mr Bundeskanzler, also with regard to the attitude of the ÖVP in these years. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] I can still remember very well the 1997 pension reform. This has been done by the Federal Government, but above all by the ÖVP, as if with this pension reform, its independent pension system would be guaranteed to officials by the higher contribution. The officials could rightly assume that the promises made by the Federal Government are also met. Only: It wasn't like that! Then came a pension reform 2000 and now a pension reform 2003 where this question of harmonisation is still open. They now adopt a pension scheme, and the Federal Government says: Dear Opposition, where are your concepts? – But They themselves do not provide a concept of what the harmonisation of pension systems should actually look like. Where's your concept? What is your concept of a pension account? – I haven’t seen anything about what your ideas are from 2028 onwards! [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Sure!]] [[Abg. Head: Is already presented!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: You haven't read it yet!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] You do not believe that what you are now describing with this pension reform is already the pension account of the future! That looks different, and you have to prepare it clean, ladies and gentlemen! That is exactly what you are not doing with this reform. That's not a clean reform, but it's a pick-up party! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, second point: In your opinion, you quote Mr Christopher Prinz, a pension expert who has done a lot of expertise together with Mr Marin, and you quote him positively as your contemporary witness or witness. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: The Marin!]] Only: This is also not quite clean, because the comment in the “Falter”, which Mr Prinz wrote, is quite ambivalent. He writes this, too, the Prince – I quote –: “A assessment of the Government’s plan for pension reform must be ambi valent.” – That means as much as “double-truth”: on the one hand, on the other. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is not correctly translated! “Ambivalent” means something else!]] – Mr Molterer! ‘Ambi valent’, double male. Are you satisfied with that? – But that’s not exactly yet, and that’s why, believe me, I can also have Latin... [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's something else!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: I didn't learn it, but I can do it!]] I'll keep it with Christopher Prince now and say, The essential point in his opinion is what is in the final paragraph. There it is – I quote –: “The main failure of the reform is the widespread fade-out of the situation of women.” – This finding, however, is based on the cosmetic remedial measures. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the point you trust to say here that we are delivering a clean reform, although this reform for the younger people no longer contains any ambiguities from 2028 onwards! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Dramatic! The voice is lowered, the tension is increasing!]] The Council of Ministers template was still included: an average of 25 percent loss from the pension after 2028. - You've stretched out the sentence. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Because he's wrong!]] However, you have not been able to remove the result: 25 percent loss. They believe that by putting out sentences, they can cover this reform, which is a single cleaner for younger people, but above all for women! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's the style!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] To reduce pensions in the final extension of this pension reform by up to 40 percent, this is no longer even with the rest of the social conscience, which I still suspect is in the case of an ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12174	Mr deputies, “Abzockerpartie” was already on the verge, “Saury” is also on the verge. Would you please relativize that?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12201	Pigry. - I don't think anything else.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12222	Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the first call for this legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12246	Ladies and gentlemen! You have already understood what this pension reform is all about. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker will keep an information sheet from the government on pension reform.]] If you still believe by the government parties that with this paper, in which one of the other examples brought is wrong, which is by no means an information campaign that can actually insure and enlist people in the next few weeks, then you have deceived yourself! I'll bring you one of your so-called examples. While the examples of the SPÖ – and I have checked them, I am suspicious of every example – were correctly expected, your examples are not right in the back and in the front. Here you take an academic, born 1961, with 43 years of contribution. Please calculate! When the academic has studied quickly, he is finished with the presence service and study at the age of 24. But there he was very fast. And “43 years of contributions” means that he has to work until 67. – That gives you an example of the fact that someone with 65 has only scarce disadvantages?- Oh, my God! Do you know that you're really shattering people with such documents? There's nothing in the back and in the front! These are your examples. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mrs Partik-Pablé, you, too, have made the mistake and quoted it, as Mr Grasser clearly quoted from it: He referred to a leaflet of the Vorarlberg Chamber of Workers, which at some point was a leaflet and refers to a study by the EU Commission, which at some point was a study, namely in 1991. With regard to contribution rates, these data were increased by 53 percent or were reduced by 45 percent or the retirement age was increased by 11 years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Tancsits.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But the situation has not improved!]] If you have done so, you should know that we have done what the members of the Federal Government have always suggested that the reports of the Pension Reform Commission should be studied. – However, there is nothing in it! The development of old-age pensions, pension burden ratio et cetera was calculated on its own, and results are quite different from the old leaflet, which refers to a 1991 study with which you go home! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Nothing has changed in terms of conditions!]] The Pension Reform Commission says: In the worst case, the implicit contribution rate – i.e. contributions plus federal contributions – should be increased from currently 31.3 percent to 44.4 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not even you know, Mrs Silhavy!]] But: In the case of the variant proposed by our Federal Minister, Mr Grasser, that the employment rate which the EU gives us should rise is more true of what the Pension Reform Commission has called a quite realistic and desirable scenario: With a growing population and an employment rate of more than 80 percent, the contribution rate increases – both: Federal contributions plus contributions from insured persons – to around 32.6 percent, and this is an increase of 3.6 percent. You know as well as I do that there are enough Wifo studies to do so, but you ignore this knowledge just as much as all the calls from the population: Let's think about this pension reform! Let's take some time. Let's talk about each other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] That is why I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government: Back to the start with you regarding this pension reform! [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Finally, I would like to ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler: If you are talking about the “pressure of the street”, please bear in mind that the people who are on the street are the sovereign you always conjure up before elections – and after the elections you clearly want to forget and only call them “poors”! I really think that's extreme!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12357	Mr Gaál has now spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 6 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12386	Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12422	The speaker is speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12437	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, I want Don't attack you as fundamental as you just did to us. But I can already point out: There's no change in political change here! We do not want to insure anyone, we leave that to your federal government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are really poor that SPÖ has sent you to the speaker's desk now! You're a serious politician!]] In this context, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, I may be entitled to speak to Mr. Dr. ==References====External links== May, that is, today, to which “Kurier ” said to: “If these are basic issues such as pension reform and hundreds of thousands of people could be wronged, then in case of doubt the decision must be made in favour of the citizens and against the existence of a government.” [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] That is precisely what we, Mrs. Partik-Pablé, are trying to do with our urgent request! We also want people to live in dignity and security. But with your policy you are endangering social peace in this country, and there you have to expect our resistance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! To your remarks... – No! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who put this speech on you?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I quoted Dr. Haider from the "Kurier". [[Abg. Scheibner: But you have never applauded a quote by Haider!]] If he is right, he is right, Mr Scheibner. I have repeatedly cited you as a positive example in defence policy, and I will do it again in the course of the budget, for I am trying to give the truth the honor, dear friend, unlike your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! In your remarks today, you have confirmed once again that you continue to adhere to this most expensive misjudgment of the Republic! – This is a decision directed against the majority of the Austrian population! To your argument that we need these Eurofighters for state-political reasons for airspace monitoring: Federal Chancellor! What you're buying here has nothing to do with airspace surveillance and nothing to do with state-political raeson, because these fighter planes are designed for the air battle, and no one in Austria and in Europe needs this Sinteur luxury fighter jet! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This prototype has not been tested anywhere and is nowhere in use! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] We are miles away from a serial maturity. All of this, however, requires the procurement guidelines. The tendering criteria and procurement directives have been avoided in this case. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's all wrong!]] The demands for must have not been fulfilled, and this is a serious disregard for the due diligence of this federal government. Federal Chancellor! We will certainly have to deal with complaints in this regard. The courts will have to deal with this matter. There will certainly be a long-term dispute to be expected, to the detriment of the Republic and ultimately to the Austrian Federal Government. That is why we are saying no to this procurement process. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! I should like to remind you – and Mr Scheibner will confirm this – that: The highest military decision-makers have spoken against the purchase of these Eurofighters, and they will probably have thought something about it. This decision, Mr. Ex-Federal Minister Scheibner, then joined you in your role as Minister of Defense. However, they did not receive any approval from the Council of Ministers. They have done so out of responsibility to the Austrian federal army and have precisely known that the necessary budget resources are not available for this purpose. Federal Chancellor! You buy something you don't have, and you don't even know the purchase price! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They want to finance this purchase with counter-businesses. These counter-businesses, however, are really air operations, Mr. Bundeskanzler! You have not obtained an offer guarantee as it is internationally usual. These are merely declarations of intent, since there is no liability and no obligation to fulfil 100% of the written offer. Austria has no guarantee of the truth of the offer. The uniosity is open here door and gate. That's a dream interpretation, and there's a definite no!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12582	Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein has now spoken. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he has a maximum of 10 minutes of speaking time. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12603	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! The honourable Member, Mr Gaál, started his speech with the claim that he and his colleagues did not want to insure the Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Now I'm telling you: Whoever takes words such as “pension harvesting” into his mouth and makes appropriate formulations – it is this part of the title of the urgent request – or as Mr. Deputies Oillinger speaks not only of a “sausage” but also underlies the Chancellor to have spoken of a “poor” on the street – and you have done so – who is not only insecure, but who uses a language that is not worthy of this House from my point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12630	Federal Minister! I have just given the floor to the minutes of Mr Oellinger's speech, and I reserve the right to take appropriate business regulations. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12649	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The discussion on this urgent request is characterized by criticism, criticism and criticism of the pension reform of this Federal Government, but without only showing the trace of an alternative. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] We know, however, that we do not get through without pension reform and that, if we are reasonable, we will decide on this safeguard reform today and in the next few weeks, because a shift to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day did not take place. Those who say: Take time!, actually rely on time gain and on delay, watering, preventing. – But that cannot be and will not be the principle in this country! This is not the working principle of the Federal Government under Chancellor Schüssel, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The need for pension reform is so clear. - I'm just saying: Three, six, twelve. Compared to 1970, Austrians go to work three years later, so they consume contributions to pension insurance as young people in some form of state benefits, are six years less active in working life, i.e. six years less long than in 1970, and are thank God also due to the increased life expectancy 12 years longer in pension. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! To whomever these figures are explained, the one or the one then knows that this cannot go out. This must therefore change if we want to secure pensions for the young people of this country. A second comparison, because the Federal Chancellor rightly referred to the importance of the employment rate of older people for the competitiveness of this country: We cannot afford it, ladies and gentlemen, that with 28 percent of the employment rate among the 55-64-year-olds, we are almost final in Europe. Even the Germans are 38 per cent, the EU average is 38 per cent, and the Sweden, partly rightly praised by social democrats, is 67 per cent in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What you have brought to horror today and in the discussions of these days is partly self-explaining! I am very grateful to Karlheinz Kopf that he has revealed the lack of seriousness of your work in so far as he has shown to you by comparing page 1 and page 2 of your urgent request that you once speak of at least 18 percent less pension for someone with 45 years of contributions, but on page 2 in turn cites an example in which it is 9 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] 9 percent total loss is also not little! It is not easy to explain to people that when they go to retirement in the next few years, they have to expect a little more loss than 5 to 10 percent in comparison to the status quo. But in this context it will move. That's responsible. And we are going this way to secure the pensions of this country in the long term, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I find it particularly remarkable that you are “painting on the wall here” in the years 2028 and 2030, apart from the fact that the Federal Chancellor has made it clear that we are on our way to a uniform pension right until then and that the single pension account will be directly applicable until then. But which one of you mentioned, what if we didn't do anything by 2028? – The big crash does not come in 2004, 2005 or 2006, if we do not do anything and do not implement pension insurance reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] In 2028, however, this system is no longer eligible for funding if you act as ignorantly as you propose, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] This morning, the Minister of Finance spoke of €32 billion in total pension expenditure in his impressive budget speech. [[Abg. Silhavy: Not really impressive!]] We speak grossly from € 700 million in savings volume as of 2006. From 500 to 600 million net, the Federal Chancellor spoke a few minutes ago. That's just 2% of that sum! How can I reconcile these 2% with the horrors you have put in the room from 30 to 40 percent pension reduction? - You don't, you know! [[Abg. Silhavy: You just have to count!]] I would therefore ask you, in the interests of the people in this country, for more seriousness! Don't forget that even if you go to the risk of putting a milkmaid bill in place, you will be completely unaware of the number one motive of our pension reform, namely to keep people in that country in employment longer than before. – Yes, we confess to that! We can no longer afford a retirement age of 58 years for men and 57 years for women. We confess to the goal that we want to move towards 65 years of retirement age for men and 60 years for women in the long term, and we get full support from pension experts such as Professor Marin or Professor Tomandl. Some of them are the transitional periods of ten years for the increase in the early retirement age and of 25 years for the introduction of a conversion period of 40 years almost too long. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying something on the issue of the transfer of emergency aid to a “new social aid” because you, Mrs Silhavy, have so lapidar thrown into the room that we want to abolish it. – That’s not true at all! [[Abg. Silhavy: It's in the government agreement!]] That's not true at all! Read the Coalition Agreement! There's nothing to do with calls! It is clear that we want to examine the possibility of moving emergency aid from the competence of the AMS to the social assistance of the countries. The essential condition for this is a new regulation of the entire ‘social assistance’, which is harmonised by a basic social assistance law or an Article 15a agreement. I have often heard of you, for example, the criticism of the different levels of social assistance from the countries. - I'm here with you! Look for Germany: Today we have three categories of benefits, unemployment benefit, emergency aid and social assistance. In Germany, there are two categories today, but the Germans under Red-Green want to merge this into a performance category. Speaking of Germany, and with that I conclude to show you what a relatively good constitution our labour market is in: The Federal Chancellor has already mentioned today that we will end April 1st. In May of this year, we had not only a historically absolute record employment, but also that we had to see God for the first time after two years not rising but continuing unemployment for the first time. In the same period, red-green in Germany has to account for an annual unemployment rate of no less than 470 000 unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen! The comparison makes us sure!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12760	Mr Murauer, who would like to speak to us for 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12778	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear friend Anton Gaál! The more I read your articles in the paper against the interceptors and against the surveillance of the airspace, and I now find it more difficult for me to believe that you are spokespersons. [[Abg. Gaál: I'm against the fighters!]] But I must unfortunately take notice of God. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, of the Greens and the Socialists, it seems that every means is right to make the pension reform bad, to insure the people of our country and to inform them with false calculations, with the truth without care and with personal attacks, and to say that we rob them of the pension. – In doing so, everything is committed to securing pensions in this state. We are willing to work longer so that the Federal Railway Pensioners can not continue, but now we can stay in retirement from 50 onwards. That's the truth! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Security is not a question of either: Either we guarantee pensions, or we don't have any social systems. Either we guarantee the pensions, or in any other place, valued citizens of this country, will break in fear of you. This government under Chancellor Schüssel has shown that security plays a role – whether it is popular or unpopular at the moment. Dr. Cap, I certainly don't understand you in your argument. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Security for the Federal Government means that the health system ensures training and that the workplace is secure. We have heard that we thank God for a high rate of employment, that internal and external security is guaranteed and that we can live in peace and freedom. It is also necessary, Mr Gaál, that we take care of external security. Since Mr Puswald today spoke of the Constitution and interpreted it in person, I would like to draw his attention to the fact that the Constitution provides safety not only on the ground but also in the air. We also have to address security issues under this Constitution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Gaál: Fightplanes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The question is not: Should we afford the airspace security? Should we consider whether we should at all be able to check what is happening in our airspace? But the question is: Can we afford that this is not our own national, sovereign airspace, ladies and gentlemen and colleague Gaál? That's the question! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Can we afford that pensions are not guaranteed that our country will not be insured in the future? [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government for not really addressing this question as popular as the pension insurance and other security elements of our country. Ladies and gentlemen! We know that all the countries of the world, in particular Europe and those neighbouring countries, are seeking to secure the airspace specifically and more. – Mr President Fischer! They know better than I do that neutral Switzerland is particularly concerned with airspace, has much more aircraft and aircraft to secure international conferences, permanently and not only sporadically. I think that would also be an example for you to include this consideration. We also know that the counter-actions are, of course, not a simple matter, but the offer of the Minister of Economic Affairs to act in a transparent manner on this issue is there. Of course, there is also the obligation for the Court of Auditors to review this. We have all been to meetings of the Committee of the Regions and know that these reviews have taken place and will continue to take place in the future. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You can't even know that because...!]] They are part of our economy, job security and research and development. Personally, I think we should secure our borders, both on the ground – as we do, of course, Mr Kogler – and in the air. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany May. Kogler]] Even if you do not agree, I say that we, the EIA, are in favour of the security of our country, and we do not let that happen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When talking about social peace, I must say: The generation conflict is programmed when an employee has to pay a pension to a pensioner if the ratio is 1 : 1. [[Abg. Eder: Unsure!]] Professor Marin, who is certainly not a member of the Austrian People's Party, says that, of course, you will always be able to pay pensions, so you can no longer pay for other things. We cannot then support infrastructure measures, no environmental promotion measures, no social measures, but have to spend exclusively or by majority the funds on pensions. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. No fighter jets, Mr Murauer!]] My God, that you don't understand, for that I actually understand! But I'm surprised that's the case. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Tribulation:... 1959!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, my request to you: Since you, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy, have been involved in the discussions on pensions in the past and know that the problem of our pensions being secure has not appeared until yesterday, I should like to ask you to stop the actions of the insurance companies, to use this time usefully and make constructive proposals. It's time for it, and there's the possibility if you want it. A little more serious in security policy would not harm us all. In terms of security policy, put it in place Your populist interests in the background!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12943	Before I give the floor to Mr Dr. Bösch, I should like to point out that I am now entitled to speak at the request of Klubobmann. Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. He literally said: “..., Federal Chancellor: If you are talking about ‘printing the street’, please bear in mind that the people who are on the street are the sovereign, whom you always conjure up before elections – and after the elections clearly forget and only want to call more than ‘poors’!’ I give you a second call for order for this submission. [[Abg. Ollinger: That must not be true!]] [[Call the ÖVP – towards Green –: Think about what you're saying!]] I call Mr Bösch. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e12985	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government has given clear priorities since we came into it in the year 2000. First: It reorganises the federal budget – this is what this government does. Secondly, It relieves citizens – she does. We are on the right track with tax relief. Thirdly, It secures pensions – this is what this government does. And last one: It fills the gaps we must have taken over from you, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the SPÖ side. Since you, Mr Cap, have used the word “smoothing” in this context with regard to the Federal Government, I am sorry to give this word back to you, because it is the SPÖ that has always taken an unclear attitude on the issue of airspace surveillance over the decades. Mr Gaál, you know that in all the decades your party has been behind us, in all the years in which you have initiated the Federal Chancellor, in which you have even put the Defence Ministers, not only initiated, but even carried on until 1998-1999. The Federal Chancellor has been able to quote his predecessor. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Your Federal Chancellor, your Minister of Defense, your Members here in Parliament have taken all these decisions. In their opinion, they were correct. I can only tell you that it has also been pointed out once by Mr Parnigoni, who is now a security spokesman, and that he welcomes the announcement made by Minister Krünes to check the air space surveillance aircraft delivered exactly after the latest state of the art, because it is not necessary to shyen the comparison and because it also ensures that our soldiers have adequate aircraft available to carry out their tasks. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Bravo, Parnigoni!]] This true statement by Mr Parnigoni is nothing more, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. You still have to say what year and what aircraft it was! What was it about? To interceptors or to...?]] - Yeah, I'd love to tell you. That was in 1986 and this supports my claim that the SPÖ was still a state-bearing party at the time. Today it is no longer, and today it is very happy to play opposition and also with the security of the people of this country, Mr President. Unfortunately, I have to tell you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The decision, which is now included in the budget accompanying law, is a purely formal necessity to be able to take the further steps at all. [[Abg. Gradwell: Not even the formal requirements are fulfilled!]] It is ensured that during this legislative period, no single budget schilling will flow into this acquisition. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They can't deliver anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Negotiations with the manufacturer have not yet been completed. The Federal Minister will do this first, and we will be able to accompany it as part of the parliamentary debate. There has been an audit report from the Court of Auditors, Mr Kogler, which we already have on the table, and it is a test report in progress that we will soon be on the table. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I hope that you, as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, will do so in good time. We are eager to see how we can then discuss this in committee debates and here in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen! This decision taken by the Government in relation to the reorganisation of pensions and also in relation to the re-establishment of airspace surveillance aircraft is a correct step in the right direction. The Austrian Federal Constitution – and this you can tell your colleague – clearly includes the State’s obligation to defend the state. A key factor in the fulfilment of this task is the protection of the airspace. Ladies and gentlemen! The Member of the Green Pilz was the one who had the National Security Council meet to ask the question to the Federal Government, which they were entitled to do about the illegal overflights of the US during the Iraq war. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is unbelievable par excellence! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] What is a federal government supposed to do about illegal overflights other than air police? – You contradict yourself in your argument, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, you of the SPÖ for decades and you of the Greens for some time! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] It is important to us liberals that these two topics are not linked populistly and unjustly. We reject your proposals, which you have also made in the context of this urgent request, and we will support the government in both areas, both in safeguarding pensions and in safeguarding air sovereignty and in the external situation of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e13094	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Kogler. As I wish, I set the clock to 7 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e13113	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister for Economic Affairs! Dear colleagues! I can't take a comment on the regulatory call practice right now: A president other than you, Mr Khol, has not considered it worth giving a call for an order for the Green Statement, that “the ones there” – that is to say, if we are already there, targeting colleagues – should only talk about it and he should only talk about what he understands, that is to say, throw something out of the stone. – This has been classified as non-ordinary. I would invite you, anyway, in this practice of issuing orders of order to stop taking all of this very seriously, because I simply do not seem to understand what criteria are being applied here. [[Abg. Oillingers: There were some other comments!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you justify oillingers?]] But, on the other hand, The President has authority over the issuing of orders, which must be recognized. I see only this instrument in the end with this kind of double treatment... – No, I don’t say “abused”, I just say: somehow devalued. [[Call the SPÖ: Abused!]] - Anyway. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You don't distance yourself from oillinger? Good!]] The Federal Chancellor spoke about the fact that all relevant information will soon be available in connection with the procurement of the interceptors. I wonder when that will be. At present, a budget accompanying law with the mandate to the Minister of Finance is relevant to provide “xx million €”. – Picanry on the edge: You're not even able to add four times, because it's certainly a four-digit million and not a two-digit one, but be it around. Let us focus on a few things that play a role in this context! I must point out to you, ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP and the FPÖ, that a few things have to be questioned at least once. Let us go through a number of points on this question of financial responsibility in this interception. I have the cruel suspicion that what is announced by the government bank is really believed. Otherwise, you have a problem in your responsibility as a Member. The information deficit has even gone so far as to mean that Mr Murauer, but also the honourable colleague, Mr Bösch, said that it had been sent to the House a report on the Court of Auditors, which would now, above all, be acquitting anything. – I should like to draw your attention to the fact that a Court of Auditors report has been published during the election campaign, but never – never! – valid as an object has come into the house, because the legislative period was over. That is why this report has never been discussed in the Committee. However, I will try to see that there is going to be a repatriation, as that means, to the House, then we can discuss it in the committee. I would be very pleased about this, because so far the opposite is clear: There is a great deal of pressure to see the Minister of Defence appear in the Committee on the Court of Auditors on this matter at all. Thankfully, this has now been achieved. Mr Khol has a moderate influence here, you can tell it calmly. But there are a lot of information deficits, it seems to me, and that is why I would invite you to take a few questions with you. This review by the Court of Auditors, for example, concerns: It is true that there is no manipulation in it; this accusation has once existed. . That is true, just as far as the question of costs is concerned, this report does not promise us anything good at all. And with regard to the question of counter-actions, it is extremely critical in the same report – extremely critical! – expressed. They always tell us, there is an economic platform, a funding platform that makes the whole much cheaper. – Today, the Minister of Economic Affairs has not considered it worth considering, even you, Federal Chancellor, are now surprisingly quiet on this issue. That was another election racer, as we remember. From this funding platform by private is – no na net! – relatively little left. So this cost coverage argument can be pushed aside once. This kind of counter-business that is designed in such a way that the interceptors, as you mentioned recently, cost us virtually only two-thirds or in the best case nothing at all, you really have to represent. [[Abg. Großruck: Tell the company FACC in Ried! Do something for the workers!]] This is really a debt and not a debt to Members, so you would also be well advised, Mr Grossruck, to ask for it so that you can speak and answer in your constituency and not pass the same Lapsus as Mr Murauer. [[Abg. Großruck: You only live on what others deserve!]] Get informed, then we'll talk about cost and financial arguments! I now come to the link between pension reform, social state and interception hunters. Money doesn't have a mesh! Of course, I do not hide myself from comparing a unique investment – the procurement costs of the interception hunters – with ongoing expenditure support, as it is given for the pension system at all! – but you must not hide what explosion of the purchase costs has already occurred, in the case of the Eurofighters – in the case of the other products less, in fact hardly – exactly with the product you obtain. The whole story – the reduction from 24 to 18 interception hunters in the summer; remember, Mr. Colleague! – had a purpose. I'm allowed to quote, and you could be kind enough to think that he meant this so seriously: It was an abuse of flood victims. – I can understand this, because if it turns out afterwards that 18 interceptors cost as much as before 24, then something is wrong! See: That should make you think! That's a huge problem. The costs for these Eurofighters are constantly exploding, already the purchase costs! Wait for the operating costs! If you are still Members of Parliament, you will remember our words here. [[Abg. Grossruck: Every year we can buy 48 from the deficit of the train!]] Next point: The so-called transitional solution has been “steamed out”. Why? – Because it cannot afford Eurofighter at all! It's easy to sit down and say: From 2007 onwards, it will be financed and not now. You know why? – Because no interceptor of this type is available at all before! Should we predict now that the federal apartments are privatizing from this title how to read in the media? – I think all of this is not a financing concept for this matter. If you keep telling us that airspace surveillance must not stop a meter above the ground – I can't hear it anymore, but the Minister of Finance has said it again – then this is not a legitimacy for financial responsibility to bury a meter below the earth. You should remember that once! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This is not a question of pro or double interception hunters, I am now only talking about difference costs – difference costs between cheaper solutions and more expensive solutions. I hope that you have not missed the fact that we are Greens against interception hunters at all. And I'll tell you the following: It is bordered by cynicism, at least it is mockery and humor, which is poured here as well over the population when these things are handled side by side in the way. They explode the purchase costs – this example I have tried to carry out – the operating costs are not even calculable – the manufacturer admits – and counter-businesses are scarce. - That's your model! Congratulations! I have reached the end of my speaking time, I have promised to stop speaking. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's good anyway! The Lord is just!]] Mr Grillitsch! You can settle my bet with you now. Where is he? - There he is! Look, you didn't watch! Then, in the constituency, you have to fight with me again why you have made this irresponsible decision, and that is not good.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e13260	Mrs Stadlbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). She wants to talk for six minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e13282	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! The Council of Ministers, of 29 December 1988, adopted a decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the Republic of Macedonia on the other hand, on the other hand, on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one hand, [[Abg. Elf wall: Wrong! Completely wrong!]] It is precisely the debates on pension reform and the purchase of interception hunters that have proved very impressive how the people raise their voices. [[Abg. Grandruck: All of us are the same!]] I only remember you yesterday, on which more than 500 000 people went on the road to show their displeasure. I would also like to remind you of the popular desire against the purchase of interception hunters who signed over 600 000 people in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what do you do? You out of it? How do you deal with this? - You're going over it! They just don't take people seriously! And above all: You, Mr Bundeskanzler, bear responsibility for the social tensions in Austria. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] They remove people's social security to invest in military "security" – under quotations. I am now expressly saying: Our criticism is against the purchase of interception hunters, of fighter jets, of war equipment! This is the right name for it and not, as it is now said to be impoverished: airspace surveillance aircraft. They're interceptors, it's war equipment – that's the right expression. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Call things by name! And if you don't, we'll do it. Mr. Chancellor's bowl! They have just given a guarantee that no single euro will be taken from the pension reform for the withdrawal hunters. Mr. Chancellor! How can we take you by the word? Is this the same guarantee that you have given to the private procurement platform of the economy that is not yet available? Is your word valid as in this case? In addition to the financing in question, another question is open to the interceptors. I've never heard an argument that really convinced me that we need the interceptors. I have read very carefully the magazine of the Austrian Officer’s Society “The Officer” and I have thought that there may be opinions from the experts who can explain to me why we need the interception hunters. I was excited to see if I could find any arguments in this. But what did I have to read? – First, I read a headline that was still very positive, and it reads: “A contribution to the facilitation of the interception discussion. ” That's pious! Only: Then I read the following: “Most of the arguments put in place in Austria against the procurement of interception hunters are not derived from new European threat analyses or security concepts, but from the general rejection of the constitutionally anchored military state defense.” It's just, very objective. [[Abg. May. Tancsits: Very objective!]] That's what I'd say. So no one argument! There's also only work with submissions. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] At this point I would like to expressly say that the SPÖ – listen carefully, especially the colleague Murauer, who has put this back into the room – is clearly committed to the national defence. [[Abg. Scheibner: But only if it costs nothing!]] A no to these interceptors does not mean a no to defend the state. Finally, I would like to write this to you in the main book! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, as in all other areas, there is a reasonable use of resources. Above all, one thing I find spicy at the Austrian Officers' Society, namely: The former First Vice-President of the Officer's Society, Mr Brigadier Bauer, is now known as the Chief of Cabinet of Federal Minister Platter. Although he has put his function to rest, one cannot really put thoughts and attitudes at rest. I hope that this negative example from this newspaper will not go to the Ministry of Defence. Now I come to the subject of “pensions”. By name, name the child as with the interceptors! Mr. Chancellor! Tell people honestly what you want! Tell me this is about a system change: away from the state-guaranteed pension to a private provision for those who can afford it! That would be honest, and that would be called the child by name! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They also wanted amendments. They wanted concrete proposals. Here you go! First proposal: Extension of the calculation period. Women generally have a less predictable working time, and many women work part-time because of lack of child care facilities because they have too little support from their father or because they lack legal protection for their fathers, but not only because they choose it, but because you simply don't have anything else left. Therefore, the proposal: Take women's concerns seriously! Respect the facts of life! Create childcare facilities! Keep up with past times! Give women a chance on the labour market, not only with part-time jobs, where you are always predicting that so many new additional jobs have been created. Create real ones with which you really have an income, with which there is also an income. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The only improvement you've announced so great are the higher bases for child rearing. However, this will only take effect in 2028. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Fully effective!]] In other words, the principle applies very well: long transition periods, gradual lifting, just not too fast. That means that women can already be sure in this case that the smallest improvement will only take place in 20 to 30 years. But the deterioration will immediately become effective, which will come already next year. They're not so shaky. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, I do not give up the hope that one or the other Member of the ÖVP and of the FPÖ has a social conscience and shows it. Mr Neugebauer! Mr Walch! How are you? You now have the opportunity: Voices Let us ask you to do this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e13419	I call Mr Donaauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e13438	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In fact, we need to make a real correction now, because what you have said, Mrs Stadlbauer, really goes far beyond the reality, the truth or the direction. That doesn't correspond to what's going on, but maybe that's something you dreamed of in bad hours. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But I'm talking about something else: We have a discussion here in a very serious situation, in which we are dealing with a urgent request from the SPÖ, but the applicant Dr. Cap is not present in the majority of the debate. [[Call the SPÖ: Oh yes!]] Where is he? [[Abg. Dr. Cap, who sits in the last row of the SPÖ sector, rises up and lifts his hand.]] Oh, God! Good. [[Abg. Neugebauer: He needs cover!]] Mr Cap! I can tell you: If you believe that you are making state-political contributions with your cabaretist appearances here, then you are wrong! This is already a statement which makes citizenship very clear outside! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, You're suggesting here that we don't put the discussion out. – Mr Cap, I invite you, you can drive with me! Almost every evening I am outside with the citizens and debate the pension reform and the budget and the budget accompanying laws, and the people have understanding. Many people say: We are grateful that we are not only being informed one-sidedly, but that we also receive a balanced, objective, clear reporting! – That’s the truth, and you need to talk about it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Cap! You have packed all kinds of things in your request, especially for a very long time you have been dealing with the question of the interception hunters. I have noticed how difficult this issue has also been taken up and judged by you. There were some who could hardly praise. I understand that too. Maybe I can help you. Dear Dr. Cap! As early as 1985, there was under Federal Chancellor Dr. Sinowatz the Draken double decision, and it had the content that, in addition to the Draken purchase, the principle decision for the acquisition of successor models was taken at the same time. That's the truth! Further: The then Minister of Finance Dr. Vrannitzky said that this is an “undisputed military necessity”. - Not enough for that yet! There is Mr Gaál in this Chamber, and he said at that time: “There is no alternative to buying new jets. A solution with used machines must be rejected. We are committed to a comprehensive national defence, and this includes airspace surveillance.” – This was clearly said by Member Gaál at that time. I thank him. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gaál has today acknowledged the truth. I know how he thinks. We've had a lot of conversations with each other. I know that you have a very clear and positive view on this matter, Mr Commissioner. But I also know you're very hard in your group. - But that's not enough! There's so much more to report. This discussion in our country was already very lively in 1988. At that time, Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrannitzky said: “... but we cannot take this seriously in an environment where all countries take the defence seriously,” “the only real consequence of that would be that we as a state would not be taken seriously throughout Europe, and I am not available for that!” – quoted by Dr. Vrannitzky from 1988. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the truth! With this question you should really deal with each other! You should also sometimes see these things from this side! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If this is all too much past for you, I just want to tell you: Häupl, your mayor of Vienna, said of the posters in 2002: “I want to remain serious, and you have to say that there is nothing to do with tax reduction or flood aid.” – So Häupl confesses clearly, and I think: That's state policy, and that's what you should be looking for! Now to your urgent request. If it is written that there is a “massive burden on sick people through non-social restraints”, I ask you to wake up your memories: All self-hold, except the ambulance fee, you have introduced! These are loads in the order of 1.1 billion €. That's what you introduced! Of course, the respective coalition parties were involved, but in view of this, you should not understand today's government that it is setting up a non-social measure here. When the ambulance charges were discussed, I didn't even experience from you that you took protection of those who have always paid ambulance fees. They have only dealt with this subject by the way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Now I would like to talk about the pension reform. I think you should take note of what has been pointed out today: the missing children, the reduced working time and the alienation of the pension system. This has also been said very clearly by former ÖGB President Olah. If Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer thinks that the pension scheme should be reformed if we are on the road to employment policy, then I can reply to him: It's us! Today it was said: 3 160 000 people are in a working relationship – as many as never before in this Republic! That is why I believe that this is the right time. We have made a responsible and clear decision, and we will discuss it with you in this form in the near future and, as I hope, decide together. Stop fighting like that! You are harming the state, you are harming young people, and you are not making a good contribution to social justice, which people expect tomorrow and which is also called for by politics.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e13545	Next item is Mr Dolinschek's speech – I have already learned a debate. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e13564	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many ways lead to Rome. The fact is, however, that... [[Call at the SPÖ: Nothing to add to it! Thank you!]] Well, we already have something to add, my colleague. The fact is, however, that there is something to be done with pensions. The worst thing is if nothing is done. If we leave everything the way it is, then pensions can no longer be financed in two decades. That's the truth! The opposition criticizes the plans of the Federal Government and speaks of a “pension robbery”, says that everyone will lose something and no one will win anything. I also have to say: If I were to go here and say that through this pension reform it is possible for anyone to win something, then I would not tell the truth, but we all know that in the present situation it is necessary to make plans, how to secure current pensions and how to guarantee future pensions. – You know this as well as we do, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats and the Greens! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have read your urgent request and studied the examples in it carefully, and I must say: These calculations are similar to those of the Chamber of Workers, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, they correspond to the draft that was issued at the time. You're a washer-if bill. Dear ladies and gentlemen! They say that this pension conversion for pensioners with 45 years of contribution results in at least 18 percent less pension, for heavy workers up to 24 percent less, and for young people today in 25 years up to 40 percent less. To this end, we must say: That would happen, nothing would be done. We are working to ensure that this pension reform will continue to safeguard pensions in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs Silhavy, in your urgent request, you write that the “hackler rule” would benefit only about 10 percent of those who can go to the early retirement pension for long periods of insurance. We have a certain idea of the “hackler rule”, and we will negotiate this matter even further. I am a parliamentarian and I'm used to negotiating until a decision is reached, and we'll be on the 4th. Negotiating June. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll take a look at that. The liberals have a certain idea, and we have already talked to the representatives of the ÖVP about the fact that we want to have changes or further improvements in the “hackler regulation”. We do not want the gross pension to be charged for the “hackler rule”, but we want someone to be able to retire if he or she has reached 45 or 40 years of insurance – this applies to women – without deductions, no matter how old he or she is, because the training period is getting longer and longer. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Today, as you know, the average end of the training period is 21 years. 21 plus 45 equals 66. So we can save ourselves this smear. It is understandable for everyone to understand: Hacklers should be able to retire with 45 years of insurance or, for women, with 40 years of insurance without deductions. We will implement this in negotiations, in talks with the EIA. Then nothing stands in the way of such a decision. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have in your urgent request calculations that do not vote. However, I give you the right if you criticise that without suspension measures, a reduction in the amount of increase from 2 to 1.78 percent will immediately reduce pensions. I'll give you all the right. If you say that in 2007 the loss due to these measures will be around 10, 11 percent, then I give you the right to do so – if nothing happens, but I have already made a proposal to that effect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs Silhavy! I don't have so much time to answer your calls. Listen to me! Now among the bad upgrading factors in the past – and there were the Social Democrats in the government together with the ÖVP –: They have failed to replace the poor recovery factors in the long past insurance periods with better upgrading factors. If we increase these poor values, which represent only about 60 percent of the actual, to the wage index, then no one loses anything in a longer calculation, but it benefits the workers and the women. Why? [[Abg. May. Prammer: You don't do it!]] – Because someone with 20 to 35 years of insurance has worked hard within these 15 years and has paid high contributions in the high economy. These groups are also disadvantaged by today's system, because they are not assessed in this way, ladies and gentlemen. In this direction we will work. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] It is important, however, to harmonise pension systems, to reduce privileges, because no one will understand that there are people who have a ministerial pension and, by the way, a parliamentary relationship. No one will understand! [[Congratulations on the liberals, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That's where we have to start! I am entirely of your opinion that there must be rigorous measures and also a solidarity contribution by those who are in retirement today and who reach a pension above the ASVG maximum pension. [[Yes-noise and detonative applause with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That's what we're going to work on! We'll do our best. Otherwise, there is no consent here!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e13672	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e13690	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! High house! Although Mr Khol is no longer present, I would like to say one more word on this last call for order for Mr Ollinger, because I am afraid he has simply been misinterpreted. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] From my point of view, it was simple that the government, with its constant remarks that it would not give up the pressure of the road, makes the people who express their concern despicable on the street, after having promised them before, before the elections, the Blue from heaven. – I think that was meant to be interpreted, and I personally find this call of order at least unfair. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] “Whoever faces increased risk must also increasingly expect something to happen.” – This is what Mr Schweitzer said today, with regard to the duty of leisure. But on hardly any other current topic, this fits as well as the so-called pension reform: Those who take a higher risk also have to expect something to happen to him. – The government is imposing this risk on us right now. Because one thing is quite certain: From a relatively safe charging system becomes a highly unsafe, highly crisis-sensitive three-pillar model. So while on the one hand you are introducing a leisure tax due to high risks, on the other hand force us to have a so-called pension reform, compared to which every high-risk sport is a leisurely walk! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister Grasser said today that this pension reform is an opportunity for the next generation. – I do not know exactly who Minister Grasser is next generation; the age difference between us is a few years. The fact is that all people who are 35 years of age or younger today will have very large losses due to this pension reform. First of all, this is the case because of the abrupt abolition of the early retirement pension, which will affect them – like older employees – by increasing unemployment. Secondly, they will be affected once again from 2028 at the latest, because either the calculation period of 40 years will then be completely beating, or, as announced, if there is another system, that will not make any improvement, because no one will believe that they will receive more pension. It'll be just another system. That is, the young people are the losers of this pension reform – as are the women. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's wrong!]] As far as the figures are concerned, I would like to ask: Where did the figures that were still in the draft sent out for review come from? The government itself described the negative effects of this pension reform. There were a lot of figures in this draft assessment, there were tables showing how the pension reform has an impact on who is losing how much. These figures are strangely gone, are not included in the government paper, and of course you wonder why not. Is there anything to hide? – Currently it looks like you're throwing each other numbers at your head. The government would have had it very easy to give examples in the new explanatory notes, as in the review procedure. Why didn't you do that? Then we could get some orientation. The second, which does not exactly strengthen the confidence you always talk about: The Federal Chancellor has today cited an article by Christopher Prinz. It has already been discussed today. I would also like to quote from it, in order to show how arbitrarily one can quote from such texts and how the Federal Chancellor has done this today. Christopher Prinz writes in the same article: The government has made a far-reaching change, different from the proposals of the Reform Commission, through the planned non-increasing factors, which radically reduces pension rights in the long term. However, a reduction to this extent is not necessary unless one wants to reduce the federal grant to close to zero. - Quote. It seems that it is what you want to reduce the federal grant to close to zero, otherwise that would not be necessary according to your reform commission, which you also value. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Federal Chancellor! You said earlier: We give hope to the people, namely you from the government. – As I believe, most people will feel differently if you with wrong numbers, with quotations torn out from the context, people are additionally insecure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This government is preaching the risk! We have heard this in this speech today, which has been so often praised by Mr Grasser, in which there is always the risk of ‘toll’. The government preaches this risk as if it were a mantra, a prayer. The only problem is that she's talking about a risk she doesn't take herself. Because the worst thing that can happen to the members of the government is that they are selected and in a few years – most of them only a few years – get a very good political board. The risk you impose on the population is quite different, however, because many people in many cases have a pension that is no longer existential.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e13786	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. The total speaking time of the SPÖ club is 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e13804	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) About nine months ago, a small paragraph was found in the magazine “Format”, which reads that Saudi Arabia has been offered the same battle jets we intend to buy at the supposed half price we should pay. At the time, I wrote a letter to the Minister of State for Defence, sent him this section, but I did not receive an answer. That didn't surprise me. However, when, for example, it became clear in January that the government is not to be deterred from buying the expensive fighter aircraft, I sent to the Federal Minister of Finance, the Federal Minister for Defence and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, once again the research of the "observer", on the question of what they intend to do, what conclusions they draw from it, to pay for something twice what others can get by half, and if they cannot afford it. The answers were phenomenal – I can say so. The most honest came from the Minister of Finance – I quote –: “The Federal Ministry of Finance is not known whether, at what price and with what technical equipment Saudi Arabia intends to buy or buy Eurofighter.” We are missing ‘knowledge of any price calculation basis (e.g. B. acquired quantity, equipment, logistics, training costs, technical documentation, equipment with weapons, etc.).’ Now I put him in a benevolent position, with “et cetera” he may have meant the opposites. In fact, it can be clear that Saudi Arabia has not agreed on any counter-actions and therefore receives this pilot by half. But that would mean we'd have to catch her. The Federal Minister for Defence has told me – I quote – that: “The claim put forward in the request” – I emphasize that I had not claimed anything to quote only from a prestigious newspaper quoted by EADS undisputed – “that the Eurofighters decided by the Federal Government cost twice as much” as those comparable Eurofighters who are to be delivered to Saudi Arabia cannot be understood in the light of the facts available to the Federal Ministry of Defence.” And the Federal Chancellor writes: ‘I am not aware of the price or the technical extent to which Saudi Arabia acquires Eurofighters.’ “I refer to the reply of the Federal Minister for Defence.” – He says, in turn: I refer to the “multiple information given by me.” – I only wonder when Mr. Federal Minister for Defence Platter has ever provided Parliament with information about the upcoming purchase of Eurofighters! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress, and I would like to point out that there may have been no evidence that the taxpayer may not have been represented as he should have deserved. Ladies and gentlemen! We know that the purchase of the interceptors was decided. I’m allowed to quote from the magazine “The Press” – no red battle sheet, as you know. It reads: ‘Purchasing-out decided’. ‘This, although the final report of the Federal Government Commission has been ‘prepared’ to the draft report. Critical comments on the Eurofighter, for example, that it has not yet matured in troops and therefore has to be expected with ‘children’s diseases’ and problems, have been removed from the paper’. And on top of that: “As an aircraft for pure airspace surveillance tasks, the Eurofighter is clearly overqualified according to an expert view”. The purchase of the Eurofighter makes sense only if Austria joins NATO and Austrian pilots also have to fly international combat missions.” Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! For this purpose, you will never be able to move the Social Democrats, I can guarantee you this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If one has followed Mr Murauer's statement – and I have tried to listen to him – then one must be glad that, on the basis of the interpretation of the legal situation of the Constitution, as he wants to defend the airspace, he has not yet come to the idea of acquiring Patriot missiles, because against intercontinental missiles, the Eurofighter is also chanceless, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: That wouldn't be so stupid, colleague.]] We heard the question today, and yesterday she also had to hear Mr Bartenstein at a discussion in the ORF when he was asked if he thought nothing if one could not afford Rolls-Royce, whether one should not buy a used vectra or passat instead. But he just erased the argument from the table. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have received some information from the budget speech of the Federal Minister for Finance. I have also heard that the President of the National Council and the Federal Chancellor expressly praised the statements of the Minister for Finance. In doing so, I put them once again benevolent, perhaps not to be careful. The quoted statements of two gentlemen – one of the shoemen who, as we know, was a failed Minister of Finance, who then retreated to Graz, on the other hand F.A. of Hayek, who took up 10 percent unemployment in order to keep the economy in motion – have shown what separates us from that government, namely the concern that people in that country have employment and that social peace is guaranteed. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Greens]] In my view, a politician who succeeds in following up on F. A. von Hayek is the largest democratic political error in the Second Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e13858	The next speaker is Mr Walch. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e13876	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! High house! One thing is already interesting in this urgent request: At least I would have hoped that the opposition would be here today at the speaker's desk and say how it is. You always say how you can't. Tell me how it is in this situation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I really wonder. As I have now learned – as I am only a short time in Parliament – there has been a Pension Reform Commission, and it is said that the Chamber of Labour and the ÖGB have also been involved. [[Abg. May. Molterer: “Really?” – They were there!]] – They were there! Now I'm wondering, Are your lawyers even talking to you? Or have you not been interested in what has been negotiated there before? – I would be very interested. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If Mr. Cap turns out to be here today – Walter, you'll be right there! – and explains that we have record unemployment in Austria, I have to say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schopf]] Remember when you put the Federal Chancellor! I can still remember very well, since we did not have 300,000 unemployed in Austria, but 360 000 to 370 000! For me, every unemployed person is too much. But you can't stand out here and throw stones and sit in the glass house. I'd be careful at your place. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can also speak briefly about the demonstrations. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I really want to say to you: I do not think we in Parliament are there to worry the people, not to tell them the truth, to make demonstrations, to go to the streets, instead of going here and to work together in this House, including the opposition, to bring in and discuss reform proposals, just as the liberals do. [[Abg. Oils: (a government representative holding up) Is that the truth?- Oh, my God!]] You think we don't trust the people. - I was at the demonstration yesterday. I've been talking to the young people. You know what they told me? They told me they're going to your order and they're demonstrating there because they don't get a pension anymore. I said: No, it's not! In order for you to receive a pension, we must make a reform! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are still many problems. And I really have to turn to the opposition now: You're all right! Who created this system in Austria? If you write “No Pension Robber!” then I have to ask you: What have you done with the ASVGlers in the last decades? Who has introduced three different pension systems in Austria? Who has introduced privileged and non-privileged ones? You can't get out of here now and say, You're the evil you're doing! – You are 100% co-responsible for this system! [[Abg. Oillinger: We? - You have no idea!]] I remind you of your duty: Helps convert this into a just system for the ASVGlers compared to the unjust system in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Where to get even less than in the ASVG!]] If I look at this assessment proposal, I can see how many amendments we have already put in place. It's sad, you just don't want to do that. But I have not heard a single proposal from the SPÖ. The ÖGB makes occasional proposals. I have to say what's happened in the last few days is disturbing. It is not good for you to go here and keep workers in the establishments at work when you know exactly what the consequences are. I'm just curious where the representation is when a labour law problem gets when he loses wages and much more. Will it also help you to protect yourself? I'm really curious if that's what's really happening. I'm ready for everything when it makes sense. But I think it would have been more important and meaningful – also from the ÖGB, in which I myself am a long-standing member and works council; 34 years! – to say: First, we negotiate, first we get to the headship or the partner and negotiate wisely if nothing comes out, then we can talk about everything. Then you will win the Max Walch for it. But we are already so far that we are at the final stage with this reform and now only have to make a small cut. That's why I'm really trying to keep you from polemizing. We say in the Mühlviertel: Let's spit our hands, let's go! Let us create a system so that all in Austria, both those in front of the pension, but also young people, have a secure pension system! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14017	Mrs Glawischnig. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14036	High house! We heard this morning from Minister of Finance Grasser, there are two large, outstretched hands in this pension discussion. . I have not even noticed a stretching little finger in the whole debate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Parliamentary treatment of this great reform is a joke! There is no such great reform in any European country at such a pace! “Speed kills” has already brought much damage to Austria. I hope that in this case the reason will come back again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14069	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. We come to the vote, and we will vote on the self-employed amendment 115/A (E) tabled by Mr Cap, colleagues, on ‘No pension robbery for interceptors!’. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request by Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen, show this by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. This concludes the debate on the urgent request. Short debate on the response to the question 152/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14111	We will come to the brief debate on the response of Mrs Gehrer to the question 152/AB. The above answer has been distributed in the meeting room as a document, so reading by a writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes and that the Members have a speaking time of 5 minutes in the further debate. If a member of the Federal Government comments, the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. Please, Mr Grünewald, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14143	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear guests in the audience! Questionnaires often have it in themselves; what I have already experienced was not always pleasing. I mean, both Question Time and Parliamentary Requests should not come to terms with play and ritual. Mrs. Federal Minister! As head of education, you will know that curiosity and the desire for more knowledge and a little better understanding, especially the decisions of the Federal Government, belong to and for themselves to the nature of man and are ultimately also the starting points of science. Therefore, I remind you that the appointment of university councillors such as the University Council itself, which is overpowering, has always caused the concern at the universities that party political influence is increasing and ultimately also affects and determines university policy. These concerns and complaints on the part of the universities have prompted me to ask you a few questions. I didn't ask you: Why is the banana curm?, but I have She specifically asked why most of the nominated university councils are known by a special closeness to your party, the ÖVP. I asked you why eight people who have been nominated belonged to the Staff Committee for Wolfgang Schüssel in the last National Council election campaign. I also asked you how You can justify the nomination of members of beating citizens and whether, in the nomination of some people at Innsbruck University, you do not see inconsistencies in that they are not only in a close relationship with the institution of the Landeskrankenhaus, even in a service relationship with him. Is it not only an inbalance that people of the future Medical University Innsbruck should not belong to this council, that of holding that is in a natural competitive relationship with the university, but – according to your actions – very well? Mrs. Federal Minister! I know that you have acquired certain allergies in relation to the word “problem”. They no longer want to hear it, have said that it was not desirable to take it into their mouths in the ministry in your presence, and have wanted to replace it with “expression. ” – Now I have challenged you with ten questions, and you seem to have a problem because you have not answered them very concretely, partly very superficially. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] Because of this, I have to feel challenged now, and now the cat bites into the tail. I hope we can solve this. It's supposed to be called: Go to the anniversary celebrations of the Federal Government, go to the personal committee for bowls, then you will be considered a person of the Austrian society who stands in responsible position, and that is a reason for you to nominate!Unknown term type: "%s".? Faith You really believe that by participating in these celebrations, one has already sharpened the scientific eye to run election advertising? Is there also a decent person outside the personal committee of bowls – I now say to the liberal –, discreet and wise people? Is there any bank directors outside the Raiffeisen sector that could be nominated? - Apparently no. Are there media specialists who do not preside over the independent ORF and are then nominated to the Council? Are there media specialists who are good, who have not been nominated by the ÖVP in the independent ORF audience council and then became university councils? What about Lindner and the independent ORF? How have employees of Head and Reichhold qualified to become university councils? Do they treat the pension, space research or ambulance fees sectors there? I don't know. How could one comfort the angry FPÖ after so many ÖVPs and ÖVPs were nominated as close to the ÖVPs? Really only by the nomination of members of beating citizens? I don't know how much saber blows in the face and on the head increase thinking ability. I think they're more likely to drive cerebral metabolism into the basement, and I don't think that's cheap. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Now I come to the mentioned “Olympions. ” The former Scientific Spokesman of the FPÖ and Chairman of the Scientific Committee in the Parliament Graf is “Olympionike” and has also made proposals to me – I have not just heard such a thing blatant; it was at least in the strength of a pummer. Graf is quoted in the “Mirror”: “Today’s state borders are arbitrary; the German people must be able to develop freely in Europe.” This will do well for the reputation of Austrian universities in the international context “nothing”! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Or is it a free contribution to the EU's south-east enlargement? - I don't know, but I don't think so. Those who have proven themselves among the citizens are quoted as Count in the “spiegel”, he will also be able to do so in politics. – You give him the right, you did it in politics. [[towards the Federal Minister Gehrer, sitting on the government bank]] Now I'm going to tell you a little bit about the “Olympia”. It's written in an invitation leaflet – now I'm trying to read quickly, because you shouldn't miss a sentence of it, yes, slowly –: [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Slow down!]] “Every amount of storm and beer as long as the throat can.” – This is almost a jambus. – “Music coverage without the slightest claim to message and art. Fun with racist or at least unappetising men's whites. Low-vitamin and fiber food, fat and filling. Relaxing superficial entertainment of unreflected prejudices full. Self praise, shoulder knocking, joy of life. No compassion for worms.” – Aha, who does he mean with worms? I think so. Further: “Niveful chatter, although academic, but with heart. ... We've remained normal under the shock of time. To us, reeducation, mourning and grief, but also consumption, social darkness and modernism have almost gone by without any trace.” – Na bravo, which is legitimate. Then it comes: “If you are ugly, fat, sick or foreign in the country, you are plagued by anxiety, world pain or left-liberal attitude, you are wearing alternative schicki dress or even a flinserl in your ear, you are studying journalism” – something that has to do with the university – “Politology or theology” – these are subjects of the universities, so that the Council will have to deal with – “or at all, you have refused military service or a friend who is neither beautiful nor quiet, in short: if you are abnormal or un overjoyed in any way, then rather stay at home, you wouldn’t be allowed in anyway.” Minister Gehrer! The Federal Government has joined these people and admitted them to the universities and councils. The universities have protested, also before the president of the rector's conference, that the research fund presidents have also meant that our reputation abroad will not do well. – How far do you want to go? How far can you stay faithful in a federal government that causes such doors that cannot be closed so quickly? These councils are nominated for five years, can elect rectors, reschedul them again and will last your legislative period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14205	Mrs Gehrer spoke on the issue of an opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14237	Mr President. High house! The opinion of Mr Grünewald referred solely to bringing people into discredit, whether they want to be political, to agree that they can work in the university field, that they can act as university councils. [[Abg. Oillingers: They have discredited themselves!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is a weak answer!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Jarolim,...!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: We are talking about the exclusivity!]] I vehemently reject this opinion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think it is a priority in our civil society when people are willing to engage when people are willing to stand up for something. I would like you to check with exactly the same acribie those college councils that have been named by the universities, how many of them are close to other parties than those you have now mentioned; there are also some. I had just expected a green one to be more tolerant, where they are always talking about peace in our society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You also mentioned, Mr Green Forest, that the word “problem” should not be mentioned in my present day. You may mention it as often as you like. My employees are positive people, they think in challenges and not in problems, but you can take the word “problem” into your mouth as often as you want, that will not leave you completely. We have given you very factual and sober answers to your questions. The criteria are perfectly clear. It must be people who are or have been “in responsible positions in society, in particular science, culture and the economy, and who, based on their excellent knowledge and experience, can contribute to the achievement of the objectives and tasks of the university”. [[Abg. May. Posch: You should also write poems!]] This is the goal of the selection of university councils. I have tried to name 30 women – and have managed to do so – of 59 university councillors. The Greens, who are always for gender mainstreaming, have not honoured this with a word. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think there is something completely different behind today's wish for a brief discussion of this question. It is high school elections, you want to raise this issue again, and you are not right that the university reform works so well. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: What does the rector Winckler say about this?]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You will see that with the reform!]] Because I can tell you: The university councils work best, the university councils are a great support for the universities. The founding conventions have been appointed by the universities in good time. The university councils have been ordered in time. The rectors are already being selected; 10 out of 21 rectors are already elected. This means that the implementation of the university reform works very well, the universities are involved, cooperate positively. What really bothers you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, is that the University Act 2002 is European and international recognition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can show you a whole list of whom our representatives are invited to refer to. I quote from the “Süddeutsche Zeitung”: “Necessfully German reformers look to Austria, where a new law releases universities into freedom.” I can also tell you that the SPD-Landtagsfraction Nordrhein-Westfalen, the Minister for Science and Research, Mrs Kraft, has invited our representatives to learn more about our university law, implementation and implementation. The university law works, the universities work best, and I thank all those who have a positive commitment.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14386	We are continuing the debate. Each group has 5 minutes of speaking time. Begin: Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14408	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Greenewald, I should like to say one thing: Your request is based on a very specific understanding of democracy. This is characterized by a fundamental distrust of the parties, although you yourself are also nominated by a political party, which is as recognized as the one under discussion here. – Take representative democracy seriously or say goodbye to it, but then, please, say good-bye! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With what right, Mr Greenewald, do you say that colleagues from universities are less suitable because they have supported the chancellor team that supported Chancellors who are close to the ÖVP? Is the qualification now agreed upon by these persons? Would they be better college councils if they had worked on the Gusenbauer team? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What do you say, Mr Green Forest? Have the Councils nominated by the SPÖ been less valuable in the first round of the Constitution of the University of Applied Sciences by the SPÖ, less qualified because they are close to the SPÖ? [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Did you hear that?]] Yeah, I read that in the protocols. They assume that they are only because they would not have qualified a close relationship with a legitimate party, represented in the Austrian Parliament. [[Abg. May. Prammer: But he didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: He didn't say that!]] I read your own request to you, I have it in front of me: “How do you explain the fact that most of the university councils nominated by the Federal Government are known by their proximity to the ÖVP?” ==References====External links== November 2002 shows that probably more people are close to the ÖVP than the Greens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There will therefore not be so many green councils either. Mr. colleague, this shows your problematic relationship with party democracy. If you accuse the person of lack of qualification, you call things by name! If you have any other accusations, then take the right path! But don't tell them their qualifications due to their proximity to a party! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Here's it in your request. I have one more question to you, Mr Green Forest. They are logically saying that an expert nominated by the FPÖ in the framework of the parliamentary survey on Uni-Reform would no longer be suitable for further functions, as he would have been punctuated. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: No! Did you hear his word?]] Mr Grünewald! Why Punish What about the expert Professor Schmidt-Dengler, nominated by you? [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: He spoke smarter!]] Should he – because he was nominated by the Greens – be assigned once and for all the qualification for a function in the context of university self-government? Why Discriminate Why Disfellowship Is it possible for the people who make themselves available to the government and to Parliament with their expertise without any qualitative shortcomings? [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Because I heard her!]] That is your own judgment, but please also explain why this should be a poor or insufficient qualification! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: In your world you must not even ask questions again!]] Should it be a case for justice – please, step out and say that! I have not heard any complaints from my university – when it came to the election of the “unreason” member of the university Kothbauer – that the member quoted by you – I do not call it a name – would not have behaved democratically or perhaps otherwise as problematicly. Mr Grünewald, check your relationship to representative democracy, apply reziprok the same theses that you have applied here, check if you do not base your reservations on the university law as a whole here, and stop blocking the successful implementation! In the civil society, allow several parties and the various parties close to them! If you have something to do with their quality, then show it! There is actually nothing here in Parliament to look for inconsistencies and abuse in the sense of the ÖH election campaign. I see your excitement – what did it say today? –: He who screams is wrong! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14551	The next speaker was Mrs Bleckmann. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14569	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In your request, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you have forgotten that the proportion of women of the members made available by the university has only 10 out of 59. [[Abg. Oillinger: Are you sending us the questions now?]] That's what's always so important to you! - But you have overlooked that in this case. That seems not to interest you as much as other things that are only ideologically oriented for you. [[Abg. Sburny: The Minister has nothing to do with it!]] Ah, that's none of the Minister's business. But she has balanced what happened at the universities, so to speak, that the women were not taken into account here, by being nominated by them of 59 persons at least 30 women. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For this there was not even a praise from your side. This was not interesting either, because as far as the universities are concerned, you are only interested that such a body can be occupied as well as ideologically from your side. That's what I'm interested in. It is not that there is competence and quality and that these must also be decisive for occupations. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: We are very interested in this!]] For the left, it is unthinkable that there are other personalities who have competence and professional quality that do not belong to their ideology, for that must not be – and not even at the universities! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] They even wanted the national leaders to nominate the university councils – that may not have been the case. [[Green call for tender]] Your proposal, but a proposal from the SPÖ – in order to have an influence again. As you mentioned to the president of the rector's conference, I also say something to you on the subject of democracy at the universities: It has been sought by the Free Students' Ring over and over again for the opportunity to hold events. In the specific case, an event was planned on the occasion of the presentation of the book “From Liberalism to Anarchy” by historian Rudolf Graf Czernin at the lecture hall 33 of the University of Vienna. What happened to this duly registered event – planned by a non-left organization, which is also candidates for high school elections – that should have taken place on university grounds? – Because of a fearsome counter event, one has here, so it was said, the security can no longer be guaranteed, and that's why this event was cancelled! Ladies and gentlemen! If this is the concept of democracy that exists at the university, I say: Thank you. – It must not be true that it is only because left demonstrations against an event of an organization that you do not want to have are announced that these events are cancelled – only because demonstrations are feared! That, please, is sad for the university in Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Who canceled it?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Which are the organizations that endanger security?]] The university rector, Professor Winckler, has cancelled her. Yes, but the demonstrations were told by your group at the university, by your preparatory organization, that's the point! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Oh, you don't know this one? – Sorry, your student organizations don’t even know you! I already know the ring of liberal students, and I think very well: If an event is planned, then the grouping, no matter what ideological orientation, should have the opportunity to make this event take place! Each group should have the opportunity, in a democracy, to receive the appropriate protection to allow this event to take place. [[Abg. Oils: Not everyone!]] The RFS has not been prohibited from being active as an association of events at the university. For me, therefore, the procedure in this case really testifies to a false concept of democracy. That is why I do not see the statements of the rector, Professor Winckler, who is very likely to have problems with some university councils, if someone has such a sense of democracy that on the one hand he refuses events on the basis of feared demonstrations, and on the other hand, like other people here in this House, is afraid that there are professional personalities at universities who do not correspond to their left-left ideology.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14719	The next speaker is Mr Broukal. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14737	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Not only those who speak aloud are wrong, they can also speak silently and not be very right. At any rate, I met Mrs. Dr. Brinek once on the street in front of the Parliamentary House on the Schenkenstraße and asked her not to answer to each of my broadcasts the choice of some university councils with low-intensive missions. She said: If you were with us in a government, there would be other university councils! - That's where I have to say: It would have been almost worth looking at some of the university councils you ordered! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We pointed out to Mrs. Gehrer months ago that there were serious mistakes in the appointment of the university councils, some university councils, but Mrs Gehrer preferred not to pay attention to these legitimate objections. Our first objection was to Mr. Dr. Friedrich Stefan, an confessing citizen, who still counts us Austrians among the German people today. I personally have the same problems as about a million other Austrians in view of my family name. For decades after 1945 – and I read it to you shortly before – Dr. Stefan is shivering about a “impressive celebration in the concert hall on the occasion of the transfer of the Waffen Student Corporations” – one of them, namely, the “Olympia” already quoted several times, “in the NSDAPs. ” [[Call the SPÖ: A scandal!]] For decades after 1945, Dr. Stefan is still talking about all of us being “in the power of the victors”, and he is talking about “transformers and their German helpers”. I, Mrs Bundesminister, do not feel re-educated when I am presented with the crimes of National Socialism as a crime. And I do not want to believe that we here in Parliament measure by two measures: that in one day, when the President of the Federal Council, Mr Hösele, says: “Become the beginnings!” and two days later to watch how the Federal Government brings people into public offices who feel the beginnings of National Socialism in Austria as “impressive”, even today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But what, Mrs. Federal Minister, did you say about that? – You meant that Mr Stefan was unchallenged and that was enough. Satisfaction is known to be a question of claim. Our claim, Mrs. Federal Minister, is deeper: We do not want people who, at the age of more than 60 years old, are still scurrying by the NS ban law, to be brought by you in public offices at the universities in which they participate in the training of youth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But I assume and I acknowledge to you that Mr. Stefan is not Her wishful candidate was, but the one of your FPÖ interlocutors on this question, Martin Graf. Of course, this one has laid more than one cuckoo egg: For example, for the Linz Art University, he proposed to you the publisher Peter Weiss, the authors who call themselves fascists. You and the officials of your house would not have known that, you said in your reply to my colleague Bettina Stadlbauer. That may be; Mr. Graf will have been silent to you. But now you know, and that's how the case whites. In a third case, the former FPÖ Minister Helmut Krunes, I do not see at all how you can represent it to the National Council that Krunes is still in office as a university council of the Technical University. What does the University Act 2002 mean? – It states: University Council should not become the one who has performed a function – not a leadership function but a function – in a political party in the last four years. Now all interested people in Austria know that Mr. Krunes was deputy chairman of the FPÖ-Nederösterreich until March 2002. [[Abg. Dr. Bleckmann: Ask the other university councils! They all wanted it!]] – So if we are now in Austria in a country where we put the laws out of force, Mrs. Dr. Bleckmann, just because some people want that, then good night! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You know, Mrs. Bleckmann, that your calls are not always accepted with respect. But I'm such a polite person who doesn't qualify, but I like to repeat my argument: The law adopted by your parties prohibits anyone who has held a political function in the last four years from becoming a university councillor. – Did you understand me? – Skill Do you remember that by March 2002 Mr Krunes even held a leading role in your party? He was deputy chairman of the FPÖ-Nederösterreich. But what does Mrs Gehrer say about this? – She tells us: That's right, but he didn't represent the chairman at any meeting. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The speaking time is also valid for you!]] He did not exercise the function, so to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14829	Please, let's finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14844	That would be like saying: Mr Haupt is not Vice-Chancellor, because Mr Schüssel has always held the Presidency in the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14874	I call Mr Brosz. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14893	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The answers from the Ministry of Education have now gained a certain reputation. There is hardly any ministry in which there is so often that there is nothing to say. I can remember that last year we had a discussion of an answer to a question. At that time, the current President Khol came over laughing to the Greens and said with a smile: It's true, actually, that's what I'm saying: Tastes, Krysaferter! – That’s what you’d say in Tyrol. I do not even wonder that this time this is a formal answer to this question, because you do not even answer the questions, Mrs. Federal Minister, the first eight questions that ask exactly about these party political occupations. – A typical answer from Gehrer! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Broukal has already done this, but the argument you and the representatives of the government parties are already remarkable. I thought that in this law there was therefore no officials of political parties, that no Members of Parliament, no members of the government, or no members of the ministry, should sit in the university councils, because they wanted to ensure a certain degree of independence. Now it's not about this being a completely empty space, but you're actually standing here and arguing with all enthusiasm that it's especially useful that someone who comes from the vicinity of the ÖVP or the FPÖ sits in these university councils. And then I wonder... [[Abg. Dr. Brinek:...! How would another government have acted?]] Mrs. Brinek! I would like to quote the well-known scientific spokesman of the ÖVP. It said here five minutes ago: “Whoever screams is wrong!” – Maybe we can keep it now. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Perhaps you can explain why no one of these 53 nominees has any distanced relationship with this government! Does this mean that anyone who criticises the government in this country is unfit to act as a university council in a position? - That's the question that opens up here. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Why do you know about people's attitudes so well?]] Should I quote you again, or do you say that only when someone else speaks? – It seems that your calls have a different character. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You're also making calls! Who were the callers from the Greens?]] Minister for Education! They have also given an opinion on the “preeminent” university reform. I now also agree to make a comment on the statements made by this morning on the issue of the education budget in sum and in particular the science budget in the coming years, until 2004 to say and write €800 million de facto would rise to over €9 billion. Now, in the opposition, we have all wondered how this can be, because no one can imagine that there will actually be 10 to 15 billion schilling – 1.1 billion € – in the next two years in addition to the budget, because we did not know where that was to come from. Mr. Grasser has promised you that you almost doubled the budget. And for proof or as proof of how honest you are doing politics here, we have then looked at the budget: The fact is that this increase only results from the fact that in 2004 the global budgets are coming and there is a breakdown of the official university staff. So that means: From the global budgets, the expenditure for officials is taken out, it is used as revenue and, at the same time, it is shown to be expenditure for the offices. A zero-sum game! € 733 million as a zero-sum game, named by Minister Grasser as an additional expenditure for the universities! And you can celebrate it! – I find it pretty slowly really embarrassing how you operate university policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14971	No one is reported in word, and no one can be reported anymore. I therefore close this debate and return to the actual agenda; we are on item 4. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e14992	I will resume the debate on item 4 of the agenda. Mrs Schiesermair is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15013	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! High house! Imagine you're at the start. You see the goal in a More or less large distance ahead of itself. You know, you have trained and go well prepared with a good basis to work. I too am at the start of my parliamentary work, and I believe that I am addressing my task with a good basis of values, creativity and constructive criticism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are fully aware of the importance of professional sports law, but these ambitious people are also for many of us role models. This is especially valuable for all people in times like this, especially for our young people. I am a mother of four children and notice the interest of my young people in sports. Especially these young people need success, confirmation, community and team spirit – and not actionism and strikes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For too long, this issue has been discussed at both national and European level. Studies such as Dr. Schrammel's opinion show the urgency of this topic. A similar example comes to my mind in the fifties: In studies of various scientists it was then shown that it is not physically possible to walk the mile below 4 minutes. Then came in 1954 Roger Bannister, who wanted to show it to the world that it was possible. He walked through the finish at 3 minutes and 59 seconds – the first. To the question of how he did this, he answered: Not with your feet, just with your head! - No one did it before him. The following year it was already saying and writing 32! That is why I am very pleased personally that, as is enshrined in the government programme, we are the first country in Europe in the sense of Roger Bannister to overcome the brake threshold. Hopefully many countries follow us. Our professional athletes are to be guaranteed in their daily work in labour and tax law as well as in the field of social security. In the preparation of this presentation, the expert group will focus on the needs of team athletes, but also on individual athletes. For the team athletes, other key points will be relevant than for the individual sportsman, who in many ways follows a very lonely path. The Federal Sports Organisation, in which the trade associations are represented, is involved in this group of experts. This will ensure that all these interests are taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen! The sport connects. It connects people and countries. Ideological or social differences, age or class of society are insignificant. In this sense, we may, if we finally, after constructive dialogue on 1st. March 2004 to present this law and walk across the finish line, hopefully to take a deep breath, breathe out and be proud of our performance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15084	The next speaker is Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is a pleasure for me to be able to address a subject in my first speech here in the House, in which it is obvious that all four parties are in one line. – Let me follow this line: I hope that until the end, until the finalisation of the law, everyone will pull at the same end of the line and that we will come to a positive end. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also very confident that we have a sports state secretary who is obviously an enthusiastic sportsman as an engine – I know he is a good runner, and at the latest Since yesterday I also know that he is a pretty good football player – he will play a significant part in this law and will certainly be a driver that we will achieve a good result. Ladies and gentlemen! We Austrians have often demonstrated our competence in setting up major sporting events, internationally recognized. We have very good athletes who represent Austria abroad and carry our beautiful country to the outside. The only thing missing for professional athletes is a professional sports law. Without a doubt, sport has been and is an important area of our society, health and the economy, as many of my previous speakers have mentioned. It is important to take into account many specificities and interests, which is why it is particularly important for us to involve all associations, representatives of interests, experts and practitioners in the discussions. I know that the first steps in this direction have, I am glad to say, already been taken. We must allow the umbrella organisations and clubs a good financial base and the necessary freedom for independent decision-making – in the interests of their athletes. Therefore, it would be very reasonable to plan longer-term and more sustainable in the future in the field of sport promotion than is currently the case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, I share the opinion of the Secretary of State, who has already stated today that the collection of the new leisure accident tax, as I call it, is not the last conclusion of wisdom and was really not a big throw, Minister of Finance. This is, of course, mainly concerned with workers and pensioners, and this is not the case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Working together is said – outstretched hands, which, as we have already heard today, can be withdrawn or withdrawn at any time, as has been heard in the last few days, for example, in connection with the “pension uncertainty reform”, can not only have fatal consequences in sport. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me a personal wish as President of the Upper Austrian Amateur Ring Association – a margin sport that is not necessarily blessed with big money and great sponsoring activity, but is particularly linked to much honest sweat. I would be pleased if, in the course of a professional sports law, we could also discuss how to help those athletes who have the basic conditions for the top sport, but who simply cannot exercise it because the money is missing or because they have no opportunity to train enough every day for professional reasons, so they cannot be led to the top. Perhaps we can also talk about this in the course of a general discussion. Let us not only think about the upper league of Austrian sport, but also about those athletes who are moving on their way to top, speak professional sports. Together we develop an exemplary professional sports law, it is high time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15181	The next item is Mr Zweytick. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria is a recognized and very traditional sport country, and it is gratifying that the Federal Chancellor and his State Secretary have succeeded in increasing the annual sports budget by 1.5 million. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So, not cuts, but correct, forward-looking measures. Even if it is not the big throw, it is an important contribution to support sports, to do important things for people. Heuer, 2003, this additional amount is particularly good for disabled sports, next year it will be used for the school sector, under the motto “education by sport” or “ fun by sport”; pointing to the future of our young fellow citizens. In this context, I should like to make a very sensible suggestion: We should succeed that in the future every school requires a trained sports teacher fixed. This would be an important measure in order to ensure the proper exercise of sport for later – preventive for your own health. I should like to pay particular attention to sports and leisure accident insurance, as it is so beautifully called, which is not a criminal tax – I would like to keep that right ahead, as my colleague Peter Wittmann said this. An insurance means simply being prepared for the emergency. It is therefore not a criminal tax, but a necessary regulation of own responsibility, especially to those responsible for sports, namely to those who exaggerate without consideration and are burdened to the general public. [[Abg. Gradwell: It can't be that way!]] You also have to deal responsibly with sports, and this leisure accident insurance creates a conscious element to which you have not had to worry or think in recent decades. That excessive sports exercise led to enormous additional costs in the treatment of injuries and ultimately showed us the boundaries is a fact, and it is important to respond here in time, but on the other hand to appeal consciously to self-responsibleness. This regulation of 0.1 percent insurance is, as I believe, a modern, right measure in the interest of sport, but much more in the interest of the athletes themselves. I can also tell you how much this makes for a year: an average of €19. – Ladies and gentlemen! If you see what products there are in the sports equipment market around €19, you will notice that there are no sports equipment and articles at this price – I don't know any! - They're all more expensive. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: A table tennis ball is cheaper!]] Therefore, I think it is justified – also in the interest of the sportsman – to abolish this amount in order to be provided with whatever sports equipment may happen in the future in the event of an emergency. We know the exuberant ambition in sport, which goes from the tourers to the avalanches, from extremes such as paragliding, but also to cycling, which is increasing and booming, thank God. We have very many excellent bike routes, mountain bike routes in Austria, 16 000 kilometres are identified, which are not even used by everyone, but this is also a contribution to sport and leisure in our country. I think that these people need to be secured in the future is our responsibility towards the athletes. Much has been said about the professional sports law, it is simply very important. Although it will not prevent the pleas of associations in the future, it simply creates more transparency in the clubs. Associations are simply small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and are in reality also subject to the same criteria as in the economy. We're going to have to have a lot of conversations. There are still many questions, there are excellent opinions, but I am very confident that there will be a professional sports law in Austria soon, I guess. I wish all the best for the sports responsible of our government – above all our Chancellor, but also our Secretary of State – for their work, but especially: a great deal of success for sport and the population in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15261	I call Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15279	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It is pleasant to discuss a matter of which you know that a four-party consensus stands in the room and you can really discuss in a factual and, above all, in time. In fact, it has happened more often in recent times that law matrices have been presented as contentious for discussion, but they have already been decided. This time one has the feeling that one can bring ideas at times. This makes the whole thing interesting and worthwhile that you deal with the matter with the appropriate seriousness. Mr State Secretary! You managed today to make a person with bad conscience out of me, who was actually proud to be a militant non-smoker, because I was an extreme smoker to the Minister of Finance for tobacco tax. What I want to say is the following: It will not always be easy to experience the causes of any inconsistencies, diseases and injuries that ultimately lead to medical care. So I would really ask you to deal with this very carefully. What or who is a professional sportsman? – The Spagat ranges from the sportsman who has a million-height income to the one who, as we say, receives hand money of 350, 400 €, in clubs from the Landesliga – I am now thinking of football, but there is something like that in other sports down to the table tennis. If, at the same time, one knows that minor employees have to say what they deserve, and if there is a corresponding sum to be taxed, social security is subject to social security – if only packaged – then, of course, one cannot close one's eyes on such matters in sport. On the other hand, however, one should not pour out the child with the bath and put clubs before facts that they cannot live up to. From my point of view, the clubs carry out a huge task in their width. They draw the youth to young athletes, they listen up, they look: Where are suitable talents?, and lead them – they will then be cared for specifically. But they also have another task, namely to ensure at the same time that they are a field of activity for young people, to keep them from stupidity – I say so quite consciously. This should be accompanied by training already in young years. It should not be the case that someone aged 15, 16 or 17 is “putting the gymnasium” in the hope of becoming an excellent sportsman, perhaps not succeeding – this often happens, as we know, whether it is by injury or you are not good enough – and at the age of 20, 22 is at the beginning of vocational training. So something has been put on, which has not led to success. Policy is called on to ensure that such athletes have future opportunities. Whether the professional image of a sports apprentice is the right answer, this may be discussed. I see a big problem coming to us, because who would like to be a coach, as an instructor, to have a failed sportsman? It should be someone who can show reputation. Therefore, at times we must try to ensure that the basic training of our athletes takes place professionally, so that they can become part of a normal business or profession later, if they do not manage to do so in sports. Ladies and gentlemen! We must also be able to give the sports associations active in the community the opportunity to acquire own resources, not just a beer tent, in which one then argues whether it is taxed or not. Not. I don't mean that. I think one should give professional associations the opportunity to win sponsors, but also to be able to offer these sponsors something – the admissions alone are too little, the advertising board alone is too little. Rather, you should also give the athletes the opportunity to be able to perform medially. Since the ORF very restrictively decides who can perform in its sports broadcasts, but with such appearances the association is able to sell on a moderate basis, one should return to TW 1. There one could give the peripheral sports the chance to appear medially. Newspapers that receive press promotion could be forced to announce these events. Thus, associations and sports associations would have the chance to find sponsors for their activities, and the state would be financially relieved. Finally, such a thing serves to give the clubs the opportunity to take advantage of the athletes in order to then give the specialists, the good trainers, the opportunity to form excellent athletes, some of whom are members of our Parliament, to the pride of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15340	Mrs Schasching is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15365	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! I brought you a football, quite conscious, because we are discussing the professional sports law today and because I – you can catch it? [[Abg. Head holds hands up in catch]] We'll try that later! I do not know whether the President agrees.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15386	Absolutely not!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15407	Right now! I would be glad if there was a little more sport in the House, but I do not risk that, Mr President. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not in the Rules of Procedure!]] Perhaps then then outside, Mr. Kopf. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is a head ball!]] But, Mr Kopf, I am glad that this is the reason why I am They have shown that the professional sports law we are discussing today, at the request of all four parties, is not to become a football law, but rather a law that respects all Austrian athletes and all sports. [[The speaker supports the above-mentioned hand movement of the Abg. Header to]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But football is not football!]] Therefore, Mr State Secretary, I ask you to put your whole weight – which has been raised a few times today – into the balance scale, so that the working group will also act there and actually take account of all the needs and all sports. [[State Secretary Mag. Sweitzer: That's little!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: lightweight!]] There are over 50 recognised sports in Austria. This law should not be directed against sport and against athletes in all cases. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should like to point out that there is still a lot of danger in this debate and that there must be a great deal of attention in all areas. The professional sports law we need should not, as I have said, be directed against the athletes. I must point out that this has unfortunately happened in the last legislative period: Indeed, you have created laws, perhaps in good faith to do positive things, which are against the sports practitioners and can now be corrected with your help. I would therefore like to point out that I have today tabled a request under the heading ‘Soforthilfe für Österreiche Sportvereine’. This is a small but very important repair in the club guidelines. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Many associations, even if they are not non-profit, can be included in their statutes but are still in need of repair parts which lose joint use. In the event of such loss of public benefit, the Ministry of Finance's regulation states that incompetence is required. All those of you who have to do with associations and associations know what that means to an association, that he must immediately convene a general assembly. This, in turn, means additional red tape, additional costs. For many, this is simple and simply not possible in this short term. I therefore make my request, which aims to amend the 2001 Association Directives as soon as possible, that non-profit associations whose statutes are in breach of this Association Directive, should not exceed 30 years. ==References====External links== Until then, they will not lose the common good if they otherwise act as non-profit and the contested and questionable points of the statutes of this association will not be lived. I am already seeking to agree to this request in the Sports and Financial Committees. But why do I now ask for the weight of Mr Schweitzer's Secretary of State and what I would like to point out: Today, we have heard, among other things, in Mr Finanzminister's budget speech, that it is also about the financial donation of sport. And what the financial teaching of sports is about, I would like to remind you that in Austria, before the elections of all parties, there was a commitment to a higher level of teaching. – That is not the case, de facto! We all know what we're talking about. Mr Schweitzer, we know very well: There is no higher dosage for the whole sport – and that is a pity! Today, among other things, the debate on the urgent request also held a interception campaign, and in this we were able to hear that there should be so-called compensation operations, i.e. counter-businesses. [[Abg. Scheibner: Discussion wasn't that, it was a...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] I can tell you – the Minister of Finance is no longer present now – that: These opposites are in the stars, they may be a fairy tale – but they may not be either. [[Abg. Murauer: But you know yourself well at the counter-businesses!]] But what is certain is that every euro the Minister of Finance makes available for the sports sector comes back twice: through the economy, through tourism and through the health promotion of the population. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there are scientific investigations. All of this is scientifically proven – in contrast to the counter-businesses related to the purchase of the interception hunter! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, Mr Schweitzer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask you once again to put your weight in the scales where it is necessary, in the case of the higher financial donation of sports, as was the case with Mrs Gehrer, who was still here at the beginning of this debate, to tell her how important sport is in school and that it makes no sense to shorten sports hours, not even in the BMHS area. In any case, Mr Schweitzer, you should use your weight to initiate a fair, just and suitable professional sports law. We'll be happy to be there. In this sense, I wish it would be a positive law for sportsmen in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15603	Mrs Schasching, have I really understood that the motion you have spoken about is a self-employed person who is not going to vote now? [[Abg. Shaking knows this.]] - Okay. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15637	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! When my colleague Kurt Grünewald first spoke about the “Olympics” at the request meeting, I thought he was in the wrong “consultation” on the wrong subject. When I came to it that he did not mean the participants of the sports olympia, but that of the "Olympia", I was calmed again, because fortunately, Mensur-Fechten is not an Olympic discipline – and it will not be in the future. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But stones do not throw!]] But as a leisure accident, Mensur fighting may already be referred to, because finally those men who do so voluntarily go in full knowledge of the risk and in full self-responsibility in this fight. And if they're injured with these shits, it's true that they don't always have to take care of themselves, but they're very likely to go to the hospital and be treated there at general cost. . So, Mr State Secretary, I would suggest that, in the context of leisure accident insurance, the members of the shattering associations should also be included and that they should also take out such insurance. This would be a useful measure to reduce the cost of hospitals. But let us now come to the Professional Sports Act and to the question of how this bill should be dealt with. We also believe that this is, in principle, a good initiative; it is a four-party proposal. There are some open questions that we will probably clarify in committee meetings. Mr Schweitzer, I would like to address a point where athletes, both professionals and amateurs, are working together, namely in the various running sports, for example at the marathons. You yourself, Mr. State Secretary, are also a runner and know what this is like when top sportsmen and amateurs run together. Something I would like to ask you, Mr State Secretary, is whether you have already noticed that the top athletes in particular are quite disadvantaged. There are marathons where the price money for women, for top athletes is a lot lower than that for the male top athletes. At the Vienna Marathon this is, I believe, €4,000 to get the top athletes less than the men. [[Abg. Grandruck: If they win, they get it too!]] And this difference should be balanced! I realize that the organizers of these marathons are not government organizations, but: For you as the State Secretary for Sports, it would be something if you once sent a letter to all the organizers and asked them to pay equal prizes for top athletes. And it's not like that's not used anywhere, even in Austria: At the Wachau Marathon, the price money for men and women is the same. At the big marathons in New York, Chicago, Boston or also in Honolulu, winners get the same prize money – only in Vienna not yet! So, Mr State Secretary: I ask you to announce this once publicly and to send an invitation to all organizers, to treat all equally and to pay men and women the same money for the performance in marathon sports. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A second point. It is always the case that men are much more present in the media in all top sports. Men, these are the ones that bring the very great achievements. – For top athletes inside, on the other hand, there is much less space, and that means less and smaller photos, less public. It's the same with the marathons. But there would be a way to improve the situation in running for elite athletes, namely with the staged start: that the top runners run first, the men and the main field only further behind. This is very controversial, and it is often said that the men are disadvantaged. However, there are marathons, ladies and gentlemen, where this is handled: in London, for example, or in New York. The women start from that, then the men and the main field. This is because the winners are also the first to come inside – and not to go down in the mass of all others and the men are celebrated at the front. So in London and New York it is. It is precisely because it is true that women's achievements in top-level sports still do not receive the same recognition as men's, that would be a field of activity for you, Secretary of State Schweitzer! I therefore call on you to become active in this regard, especially as regards the marathons in which you personally participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15732	A sentence for the Secretary of State. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15754	Mrs Lunacek, you are partly informed and partly not informed, and I therefore allow myself to say two sentences. In Vienna is the organizer of the event. ==References====External links== This organises this together with the sports managers of the city of Vienna, who are also responsible for the prize money. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: I told you to ask her!]] This is a so to speak omnipresent in Vienna's sport, which has everything: Mr Podkowicz, together with Mrs. Laska, Deputy Mayor. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Ask them to change that!]] When we strive to take positive influence, we are told: This is all the matter of the organizer, together with the sports officers of the city of Vienna. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Have you tried?]] You are right, Mrs Deputies: In Vienna too, it would be right to give men and women the same price money as in other marathons in this world, for example in New York or Boston. But I can tell you the following – since I have already been running in New York and London –: Also there men and women start at the same time, just at the beginning on two different tracks, and that's why there are separate pictures. But it is still true that the fastest is also the first one in the goal: whether man or woman. Paula Radcliffe may soon be faster than the fastest men – and then a woman will be in the goal first. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] – By the way, Paula Radcliffe – whether she wins in London or in New York – gets as much as the men. [[Call the SPÖ: A sentence!]] As far as the participation of the disabled in the Vienna Marathon is concerned, I have addressed myself to those responsible for the price money. But as long as Vienna's social democracy does not want to do so together with the organiser, I cannot, unfortunately, do more than say: It would be good if you were to imitate international models.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15858	No further words are available. The debate is closed. We come to the vote, which is not based on a draft law, but rather on a resolution. We shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 77 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 7.) That is what we have done with this item on the agenda. 5. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna Regional Court of Criminal Matters (9eE Vr 9391/01, 095 Hv 5160/01s) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Mag. Dr. Alfred Brader(75 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15908	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There is no mention of words. That is why there is no debate either. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 75 of the Supplements. The National Council may decide: “In consideration of the request of the Regional Court for Criminal Matters of Vienna of 10 October 2016, the Court of Justice of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the Court of Justice of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities, of the one part, and of the other part of the Community, of the other part, of the other part, of the Dr. Alfred Braderwerd in the sense of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG found that – ratione temporis – no link between the criminal act claimed by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the MP to the National Council. Dr. Brader exists.” This is the request of the Immunities Committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a sign. . The request of the Committee on Immunities was adopted unanimously. That's what we've got the 5th. Dot done. 6. Point First reading: Request by Georg Oberhaidinger, colleagues on a federal law amending the Energy Regulatory Authority Act (77/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15966	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate, and I am the first to give the floor to the applicant, Mr Oberhaidinger. He'll probably talk for 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e15987	Mr President. Mr Federal Minister – I am pleased that you are present at the first reading of this request! Ladies and gentlemen! It is – I think, we all know – nothing so good that it could not be improved. In order not to be misunderstandingd as I did in the last Economic Committee meeting, I would like to stress in advance that I fully respect the laws which we have passed in the energy field in the majority, with the votes of all the parties in this House. However, it must be allowed to reflect on and address changes and improvements in the light of the experiences gained. Much of what we know today we didn't know years ago, or it was not possible to agree on it, or we -- and this may have happened in the hustle and bustle in which these laws sometimes come about -- simply and simply overlooked. I am no longer quite sure whether the regulation I am addressing has been overlooked or whether there has been no agreement on it. In any case, I would like to apologise at the outset for a write error in this request. Of course, it must be said that “listen to these members ” and not“ listen to them. ” I have no longer insisted on a correction because it would have been a waste of time – we had to make this request again – and have trusted that you understand that where people work can also happen errors. Ladies and gentlemen! In the interests of a functioning Energy Gas Advisory Council, I should like to ask you to discuss this proposal positively in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. At the moment, this Energy Gas Advisory Council is not fully operational because compatibility is not complete. They are represented by company representatives in this Energy Gas Advisory Board, so that other companies or companies simply do not agree to submit their data there if they can be viewed by the competition in this form. – That is my urgent concern about this request. I would also like to take the opportunity to address two problems that have been pending for a long time. Mr Federal Minister, we have received the last energy report in 1996, I think, in this House, and since then, although so much has changed in our country in the energy field, the energy situation has never been evaluated. At the moment, we don't know where the train is going and whether it's going in the right direction at all: Are we taking the right measures? Are we preparing the right legal changes? – It would really be high time to prepare and submit the energy report for the house. I tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject about a year ago. Another problem, which can also be seen in connection with the unfortunately not present energy report, is the section 25 of the ElWOG, which provides for the adoption of a regulation for the determination of the regulatory authority, which is now working for almost a year, by the Federal Minister, so that there is a half a reliable framework for the operation of the regulatory authority. I can well imagine that at the time it was perhaps happening that we did not adopt a regulation, but said: Okay, we're installing the regulatory authority – about what it's supposed to do – and let them work once without too much of it. In the meantime, the situation developed in such a way that the national leaders in the national conference – after this paper, it was on 30 June. April – have been busy with it. The issue has already been raised in the discussion: First of all, there should be an energy report from the Federal Government so that it becomes clear where the government is heading on energy policy issues – as has been said, it is rather not to be determined where it is headed at the moment – than the second the Federal Minister's Rules of Procedure, so that it assumes political responsibility for the objectives of the network regulation, and then the project from the E-Control. In the text in concrete terms, the unanimous decision of the national conference is as follows: The national conference expects a complete renegotiation of the regulatory approach on the basis of a balanced, objective and legal and business and economic considerations with a view to a greater consideration of security of supply for economics and energy customers. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to ask you, including the government parties, to support us in this matter. If the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers that it is necessary to get together more and we should link up a larger package if we change and innovation: I'd like to be ready for that! I would like to appeal to you: Take the problems that are currently the e-business and, in particular, the grid businesses, not on the light shoulder! Let us correct what we were not able to do a year ago or before! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16051	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. The watch is gladly set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16069	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oberhaidinger, I believe that what you have referred to the Gas Advisory Council should be a matter for us. In contrast to the Electricity Advisory Council, we have also sent representatives of the federal states, the municipal government, of the municipal government to this body. This is by no means a bad thing or a bad thing. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] But you, Mr. Oberhaidinger, are right: Some federal states, instead of an independent representative of the federal state or the state government, actually send representatives from the countries not very far away, but still on the market. This is, of course, a problem when it comes to the submission of documents from individual companies. I think we should talk about it, and we should be able to understand it. However, since an internal energy market directive or its implementation, i.e. a renewal, comes from Brussels to us, and since it is likely to be already in the autumn that we have to deal with it, I think we should probably be able to do this in one at a time. In principle, it is also necessary to point out why this is a problem. In recent days, for example, WIENGAS has been writing to 700 000 customers about a price increase per 1. June 2003 and it is based on some questionable arguments, namely: The almost 100% increase in the basic price was due to liberalisation. – That seems to me to be a slightly misused customer information. For this reason alone, I believe that, in an advisory board, which is also responsible for price issues, country representatives – even business representatives – are actually in a somewhat questionable position because, in some cases, information from other companies could eventually lead to an abuse of this market position. In short: I think you can talk about it. I do not think it is particularly urgent now, and we can certainly discuss it with the other questions raised by you, Mr Oberhaidinger, in one case and perhaps by the end of the year. I think that belongs to a few other questions in the package. Our willingness to talk is in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16111	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16130	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Oberhaidinger, the willingness to talk on this point is certainly not a question. Cooperation has also worked well with the energy laws. I think if you realize that corrections are necessary, then you should also do them. In the specific case, we are dealing with the gas advisory board, which has a composition different from that of the electricity advisory board. When I consider the “parliamentary correspondence”: It is precisely about the fact that the Gas Advisory Council should work on the same principles as the Electricity Advisory Board, which – and I suppose that is true – is already to be questioned from my point of view. I think we will be able to discuss this. It has been mentioned here that the ministries concerned and the representatives of the social partners should be represented, but not the local and local representatives, as well as the representatives of the industrial associations. I think it makes sense to discuss how and in what composition it makes sense. It is not necessarily the transfer or equality with the Electricity Advisory Council to act in accordance with these principles. For example, I take out the industrial association, whose undertakings are 45 to 50 percent of the total natural gas requirement in Austria. I think it makes sense if they're there. As regards the arguments put forward here in relation to the disclosure of a company's figures to the competitor in this advisory board: This certainly poses problems, and we will be able to understand what I mean in order to reach a reasonable solution. With regard to the sequence of time, I believe that after a certain period of observation a re-adjustment, a change where we gain the realization that changes make sense, is quite appropriate and then we should complete it altogether. It is not meant that this will be the case on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, but indeed in foreseeable time. But we will certainly still have talks in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16170	The next speaker to speak was Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16188	Mr President. Federal Minister! On this bill, which has now been introduced by SPÖ at first reading: We would be very pleased if, in the course of this small novel, which we would like to discuss in detail, we could also discuss the major issues which are in place as a whole in a package. It is essentially about the energy report I think is essential. In a liberalised market too, it is necessary to keep in mind basic principles of planning, including as legislators. Having a report in Parliament at least two years' time is, in any case, a very good support. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Other countries, such as the Czech Republic, are currently working on an energy concept, on an energy plan. This is also highly parliamentaryly secured, and I think that could be an example for us. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Secondly, what is important in this context: We passed the Eco electricity Act last year. There would also be an evaluation: with the common objective of significantly improving the existing approaches. There are calculations that we will not achieve the objectives with the standing instruments and It is not possible to reach. The main responsibility for this is electricity growth, and electricity growth is not a “natural law”. I would like the large building blocks of an alternative energy policy to be involved in such an energy concept, namely: Energy efficiency, the widespread transition to renewable energy sources, and in particular to support and promote decentralised supply facilities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have long formulated this as a building block of green energy policy, but I also know some in the series of ÖVP and FPÖ, which is a concern. A third thought, which plays a major role in this context and also needs to be taken more important, concerns the introduction of Austrian positions into the European energy discourse. There are some very delicate decisions. In this context, I would like to mention the case before the European Court of Justice, which is currently being discussed very intensively on the question of aid, with particular reference to the question of basic supply, and also to aid related to remote supply, in the field of general health care. Austria should play a very intensive and good role in these liberalisation issues at European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16257	Mr Bartenstein, Minister for Economic Affairs, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16275	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As soon as possible on this application to the Energy Regulatory Authority Act: I recognize the problem. I cannot or cannot understand the proposed path of Mr Oberhaidinger, namely that the answer to this "conflict of interest" problem, which is obvious from my point of view and which does not necessarily result from the law, but on the basis of the nominations made by the countries and the persons nominated there, as well as the responsibilities that these persons have in energy companies, must be the answer to the absence of the rights of nomination. Let us discuss this openly and widely, let us make sure that the “Conflict of Interest” situation which is currently problematic from my point of view is corrected. That would have to be the goal from my point of view. Mr Oberhaidinger, you have also addressed the issue of energy report, as has Mrs Dr Glawischnig. – Such an energy report is in preparation. I assume that it will be possible in 2003, that is, in the current calendar year, to send an energy report to the House as a basis for discussion for much. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Good! Very good!]] Let me turn to what has been said by the head of the honourable Member, because it has a certain amount of topicality: The increase in the basic price of WIEN ENERGY for gas by almost 100 percent, i.e. a doubling of the basic price, is on and on itself a very critical thing to see. What bothers me even more than this doubling of the basic price, which, by the way, has not had any consequences at the Vienna political level – that is perhaps also a reference to the Members who come from the Federal Capital – is that the reason that liberalisation is the reason for the necessary increase in the basic price is absolutely misused customer information. That is rejected by me in all clarity and sharpness! But this has nothing to do with the liberalisation of the natural gas market, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16313	The list of speakers on this item on the agenda is exhausted; no one has spoken. I accept the motion for a resolution 77/A to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 7. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues in a Federal Act amending the 1991 Reporting Act (93/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16346	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16367	Mr President. High house! My dear Lord! There were good reasons for the SPÖ not to agree to the amendment to the Government template. There were significant concerns of Austrian data protectors and consumer protectionists, in particular, against the rule that other questioning rights can be distributed by the Ministry of the Interior. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The fears of the time have been confirmed. As has resulted from the discussion of the last months, the Ministry of the Interior has granted access to questioning rights to persons, each of whom does not comply with the statutory requirements laid down in § 16a para. 5 The notification law does not apply. This is very clear: Persons who regularly need reporting information on the exercise or enforcement of rights or claims may be entitled to such a request. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We now know that such online access rights have been granted to the security industry. Now I'm really wondering: What is actually in the trade order? What is the task of the security industry? – I think none of you can explain to me that the requirements of § 16a para. 5 actually apply to professional detectives. Or do you think that professional detectives are entitled to enforce rights or claims? Another example is collection offices. Collection offices also have online access to the Central Registration Register. I would remind you of the rules of commerce: None of us know – including no member of the Committee on Justice – that collection offices can enforce rights and claims. But all these questioning rights were unlawfully granted by the Minister of the Interior – I emphasize –! The same applies to the trade of information. There is another reason why someone should explain to me whether, in accordance with the trade regulations, information is entitled to enforce claims and rights or to assert these rights. Now imagine the following: An official who takes up administrative activity – if we take one from the Ministry of the Interior, which requires access to the Central Reporting Register – must document this process in individual cases, this access must be comprehensible; Officials have no uncontrolled online access. – But these traders, who have been unlawfully granted this right, have such access! What makes us social democrats think about something, is the fact that, in a proposal to amend the KFG, it is now explicitly regulated that the legal interest must be demonstrated in the case of a request for the label. Now I ask you: According to § 22 KFG of the template, why should the legal interest be demonstrated, and why not also in the Central Reporting Register, although we know that there may be much greater abuse? I would just like to point out that, not controllable by the competent reporting authority, surveys from abroad can be carried out because, when the law came into force, it was forgotten that they had to restrict the authorisation for queries to nationals. You can go to the network and get online from Croatia, Bosnia, from Russia to the Austrian Central Reporting Register. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen, that can't be useful! Therefore, it is our proposal – and you have the presentation – that the legal interest should be demonstrated in each individual case in future queries in the Central Reporting Register. I would ask you to discuss this motion without emotions, in particular on the question of whether these rights of inquiry have been granted in accordance with the law by the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16435	The next speaker was Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16453	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are discussing at first reading an application for a law of the SPÖ to amend the Notification Act. What's the matter? . We have novelled our registration law in 2001. Since then, a modern, forward-looking, service and citizen-oriented registration law has been available to us. From this point of view, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the development of this modern notification law: from the Federal Minister, to the Data Protection Commission, to the staff in the ministry. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The application you have made does not indicate a legal star's hour. There is no reason at all to question the efficiency and data security of our notification law. The Federal Government takes citizens, data protection and personal rights very seriously and at the same time stands for a modern and performance-oriented administration. This request, which has been submitted here, is designed to prevent the possibility of a performance-oriented and unbureaucratic administration in this area. There are only a few laws that encounter such a great deal of acceptance on the outside of the local staff who have to comply with the law, just like the Report Law. The doubts and unmistakables of the fact that this law opens the door and door to the abuse, the “glass man” is being introduced, an attack on privacy is taking place and fundamental rights are being violated, this fear-making, ladies and gentlemen, has gone empty. One thing, however, must be clear to everyone: If someone wants to commit an abuse – there we can create laws as many as we want – then this is certainly in no way to prevent. What is the central reporting register about? – The issue is that the authorities can now deal faster and better with citizens’ concerns, such as the main residence report. This is now going unbureaucratic and fast – and can also be done via the Internet. Non-governmental, so-called business partners, as mentioned in the application, can only access these data electronically via the Internet, by the way, as well as any other, if a request authorisation has been granted, and for this purpose, applicants must indicate the intended purpose of using the central reporting register. If a person receives a request and uses the Central Registration Register, he must use the first name, surname, date of birth and date of birth as well as any other person. additional characteristic such as the place of birth. However, if these data are available, there is actually no breach of data protection anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, you just have to take note of this. You can turn the whole thing and turn how you want: We have a modern notification law, and it is not at all for discussion to bring about any change in this notification law.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16501	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16520	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Chamber of Labour and Consumer Protection have certainly, as honourable Member Maier has said, provided very worthwhile services there or there. In the present case, however, the opposite is the case. If a practitioner like Koßl MP says that the law is good to handle, that data protection is essentially not at risk, it says someone who knows exactly what he is talking about. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: And what about the Privacy Council?]] I am not of the opinion that in the office towers of consumer protection and the Chamber of Labour, the situations, as they play in practice, can actually be precisely understood. This law is also well secured: There is no general legitimate interest, but there must also be an individual interest. Any kind of request will be logged. The system saves everything. Mr Maier, it is largely impossible to violate data protection. Of course, if you want to find something, you can always say something. I am now referring to another legal regulation, which has already been mounted by the Chamber of Labour and consumer protection several times: It is this question of the executive according to § 130 of the Commercial Code. And because the private security companies were also addressed: Yes, please, it is extremely important that employees of private security companies be informed whether they are actually suitable to carry out this activity. It would be unimaginable if the World Economic Forum met and a private security company sent its people there that it is not guaranteed that they are really suitable for this activity that pre-punishment, even if they have already been cancelled, will not be indicated. The same applies to security of embassies or also to the transport of money. There have also been complaints from the SPÖ. It is, however, a necessity, just as it has proved necessary to bring the Reporting Act up to date. It's unbureaucratic, it's a good law, it's a modern law, and it's also a transparent law. That is why, from our point of view, there is no reason at all to join this proposal by the Socialists at this first reading.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16563	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16582	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is purely technical – of the settlement, of the procedure, of the “comfort” for the officials concerned or the corresponding interested persons from the Population – the law is indeed unproblematic. The new registration law is unbureaucratic, partly customer-friendly and certainly more efficient. No question! However, when it came to discussing this new notification law, there were already concerns about data protection. Now we have some experience. Two years have passed, and the data protection concerns have proved to be legitimate. It is quite natural that, given these concerns, it is a matter of course to make a change. It is about combining the efficiency of the resolution and – I also care about – the guarantee of data protection. Nothing else wants this excuse, and I therefore support it. I think that we should soon discuss this, because it is precisely at a time when electronic media are increasingly connected, when access and queries are becoming ever easier possible, that data protection aspects need to be highlighted more and more, put them in the foreground and also anchor them legally. That's what it's all about! We want to be as safe on the road as we were with the old one with the new registration law. This status must be restored, and I therefore support this concern. I hope that we will be able to discuss this soon.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16621	Mr Parnigoni is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16639	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Kößl and Mr Mainoni did not actually comment on the basic question raised by Mr Maier. Mr Kößl has spoken of a modern law, for which thanks are due, and in which there is no reason for a change, has spoken of fear-making and so on. So, as it were, he used the first reading to polemize a little. Mr Kößl, it is really about the fact that § 16a para. 5 Detections or collection offices are not allowed to obtain a request authorisation. That is the point of the whole story, and that is why we want to achieve an amendment with our request, in the sense that a legitimate legal interest in each request must clearly be made credible. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not to be seen that an official has to document very precisely, not only his name, his service number and what else I know, so his identity needs to be disclosed, but also document why and in what way he performs the survey and what he really needs the data to do. [[Abg. Head: This also applies to private!]] For collection offices or also for professional detectors and others who access online – although the name is also collected, but even if the person concerned does not give such data in part, he can still enter the system – this does not apply. Above all, no legal interest needs to be demonstrated, and that is exactly the point. That is why the Data Protection Council – and this is the link, I do not want to argue about it now, but we want to discuss it – has made it clear that it is against this Novelle Report Act. He found that there is a legal problem because there is no claim. And that's exactly what it's all about! Ladies and gentlemen! There can be no interest in the fact that a ministry, which will, so to speak, become the largest data dealer. You already have the impression that the actual background is that the Minister of the Interior wants to make money with it. But this is at the expense of personal, personal protection – and this is at the expense of the rule of law. And that shouldn't be! Mr. Mainoni, with you, I can see this quite easily: Of course, you have a certain personal interest that these professional groups are given access. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: From practice!]] I understand that, and that's not a negative thing, but it must also be legally covered in the law. Our allegation is that this is not legally covered. However, if you want to, you have to secure it legally. That's why this discussion is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16698	As the last speaker, Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16717	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier's speech prompts me to say a few more words on this subject. I am also in favour of really looking at the fact that there is no abuse in the reporting register. – However, they of the SPÖ represent this as if everyone could be pure: whether it be from Russia or from Croatia. At least you mentioned this, and I don't know what cases you've been dealing with. But that's not the way it is. Not everyone can sit on the computer and type in their queries, but the person must have a general right based on a legal interest. This authorisation must be granted to him by the Ministry of the Interior. – I mean, you have to say that to make it clear. Mr Maier. Whether the Minister of the Interior has granted rights which were not in order, we cannot judge this here, but we have to address a question to the Minister of the Interior, or we have to have talks, or try to take responsibility at any time. I know there's been abuse. On the part of the Ministry of the Interior, these abuses have also been investigated, and these – I think they have been two cases – two persons or companies have lost their right to do so. So that means they can't do these queries now. By the way, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Register is actually accessible to everyone as a public register. If, when there was no online connection yet, you went to the Rossauer Kaserne in Vienna and requested a notification information, then you got it without having to show any legal interest. So that means that protection has already been improved somewhat, so to speak, by the fact that at least this general right is needed. But, as I said, I am very happy to speak to the Minister for the Interior of the Interior, whether he has wrongfully granted rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16753	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I give the motion for a resolution 93/A to the Committee on Internal Affairs. 8. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the provisions of the Federal Constitutional Law on Election Law and Federal Law, which amends the National Council Election Act, the Federal Presidential Election Act, the Volksbewandungsgesetz, the Volksgebracht, the Volksammensammungsgesetz and the Electoral Evidence Act (95/A) 9. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the provisions of the Federal Constitutional Law on Election Law and Federal Law, which amends the National Council Election Act, the Federal Presidential Election Act, the Volksbewandungsgesetz, the Volksgebracht, the Volksamtsammungsgesetz and the Electoral Evidence Act (96/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16798	We now come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Wittmann. – The clock is scheduled to be set at 10 minutes, deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16859	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! These requests are essentially about the fact that, on the basis of technical development, we are actually able to take the day of election as the deadline for reaching the electoral age and not the beginning of the year, so that, as in the last National Council election, there is no discrepancies between the date of the election and the date of the election of almost eleven months, and twenty thousand young people were so unable to make use of their right to vote. In the age of a computerized collection of birth data and other data and the continuous recording in the corresponding registers, it should be possible to place the deadline on the electoral date. I think that would be a sensible and reasonable arrangement. The second part of these applications deals with the fact that, in the various professional groups and associations of interests, there should also be an active and passive right to vote in the various professional groups and associations of interests for those professional practitioners, in particular professionals and liberals, who are not Austrian citizens, because it is not clear that someone who exercises a profession should not be able to represent his interests as well as someone else. This would have to be linked to a certain duration of work. I think it would be reasonable to grant non-Austrian citizens both the right to vote actively and passively in all associations of interest after five years of residence. Another point, which is very much in my heart personally, is the reduction of the electoral age to the completed 16th century. Year of life – in particular because of the experience gained in both the Carinthian and the Styrian municipal elections, which is that the young people have made very massive use of their right of vote. A sample review in Burgenland has brought young people to 87 percent of their vote. That is to say, the young people are very likely to exercise their rights if they are granted them. And it is not clear that they are given these rights. The young people are socially more involved than before, and they decide on their own way of life. I think it would be useful to grant the corresponding rights on the basis of increased responsibility. This has made good experiences in Burgenland, good experiences have been made in Vienna, good experiences have been made in Carinthia, and good experiences have been made in Styria: in Carinthia, Burgenland and Styria at the municipal elections and in Vienna, too. In Germany, such as Nordrhein-Westfalen, there has also been a lack of unattractive experience with the reduction of the electoral age, so it would be quite possible to have the right of responsibility followed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Short speech long meaning: It would be useful to reduce the electoral age. It would also be appropriate to adapt the deadline, and it would also be fair to grant foreigners the right to vote actively and passively in the interest groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16904	The next speaker was Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e16922	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As Mr Wittmann has said, there are two SPÖ requests. One concerns the merger of the electoral age with the deadline, so who is the 18th. A year of life is expected to be able to vote with 18 (95/A), and the second concerns the reduction of the electoral age. With the first request, my colleague Silvia Fuhrmann will work. I think it is good if she can do this as a recent Member from her point of view. Secondly, I would like to say that in my opinion, it is a little contrary to the first request: On the one hand, you want for the 18th. Year of life sync the deadline and the election date, and on the other hand, you want to reduce the electoral age to 16. – I don’t know what you really want. On the first request, we are somewhat milder, on the second request, on the reduction of the electoral age, we see this differently. There is no doubt that the Committee will deal with this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Mr Brosz, I thought you did not want any calls, because you just beat this up with my colleague Brinek. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Undoubtedly, the Committee will deal intensively with the pro and counter on the issue of reducing the electoral age. I would just like to point out that in the last legislative period – it is not a new request – we were against it and are against it now at the federal level, and it is about the federal level, because this is what the request refers to. I have also been digging and nowhere have I found a country, neither in Europe nor in the non-European area, which would have an age under 18 in federal elections. Austria would therefore be the absolutely first state to presuppose on this question, but I do not see any need for it. [[Abg. May. Worm: We could also be a pioneer!]] Mr Wittmann, quite contrary to that, I consider the need to be very well given – and I expect and hope constructive talks on it – to finally grant all those who already have the right to vote under the law, through the choice of letter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Bravo!]] That's something we've been demanding for a long time, what's overdue and what I'm inviting you to do. Without extending, this would be possible with very simple measures. [[Abg. Brosz: What's the bad thing about extensions?]] On this point, Mr Wittmann, we are the Stone Age in Europe. The majority of European countries already have the opportunity to vote in letter, and modern people, globalisation, and people's travel needs are much more likely to make use of their choice on the election day. I recommend you and call on you to support us in introducing the choice of letters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e17007	Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e17028	Mr President. High house! Equal obligations, equal rights – including our second request concerning the reduction of the electoral age, can be subsumed. We live in a system where we come to school at the age of six. After nine compulsory school years you can go to work, you are old enough to pay taxes – and there you should be actually old enough to be able to determine what happens with taxes and what happens to the money you pay in social insurance systems, et cetera. If I calculate 6, 6, 6, and 9, that's 15, 151⁄2. Then, 16 would be the time at which anyone in our country could go to work from the law and to which, as a rule, also very many work and thus also far-reaching... [[Abg. Neudeck: Would you like to have the children's work so that they can vote earlier?]] So in 16-year-olds, we don't talk about children anymore, we talk about young adults. If 16-year-olds are old enough to go to work, they must also be old enough to be allowed to vote and to decide what is happening. The experiences we had in Burgenland, but also in Graz, were very positive: a very high turnout among the boys, a very critical discussion of the content of all parties in the run-up to the election. In this respect, it is an essential point for us to implement it. On the second point of the second request: Foreign citizens should also be given equal rights under the same obligations, i.e. the right to vote in all their interests, both active and passive. This is also a point that has long been called for and where it is finally time to do so. If you hear that sometimes people are not mature enough for it, then there are two things to say: First of all, we do not have a right to vote in Austria, but rather a right to vote, that is, if someone thinks he is not yet mature enough at 16, 17 to make this decision personally, then nobody forces him to go to the election, because it is a right and not a duty. However, those who believe that they can and want to make this decision should also have the opportunity to make this decision. This is, of course, also a question of maturity. If you say you haven't found a country where this is possible: Just over 100 years ago, you wouldn't have found a country where women could have voted. Perhaps that was also an argument put forward in the discussion at the time. But it was then shown that a country had just gone ahead, and then it lasted until 1970, until Switzerland was also considering this point. I do not know whether we want to be a pioneer on this issue, a pioneer in democracy – or a follower. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: This is not a question of democracy!]] The question is less whether the 16- and 17-year-olds are mature enough to make such decisions, but whether you are ready enough to give them this opportunity today – or if we have to wait a few more years until you too see this and are willing to submit on this point. It'll come. And if you're not ready for it today – it's us! – then you may be in a few years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: And what about the choice of letters?]] For the first time: Tens of thousands of young people, still full-time, were not allowed to vote at the last National Council election, not because of the fact that the date of the year was always the 1st. The year of election is January. This has been introduced about ten years ago; it has also had to do with administration. For me, however, this is a mystery. Ten years ago, when the electoral registers were still kept in the registers, it was possible to set the deadline for the vote about 60 days before a election. And now in the age of the computer, can this be done only once a year?- Oh, my God! - That's ridiculous! Of course, every dating day involves a certain injustice, for someone can be born on the day of the year and someone the day after that. But there is a day that declares itself by itself, and this is the Day of Election. If you are 18 years old on election day, you should be allowed to vote. If you're not 18 on the election day, unfortunately you can't vote, you're the next day, you just had bad luck. Everyone understands that, and that's absolutely simple. I think that we should also make the laws for the citizens on this issue, in which case for the 18-year-olds – and not for the administration through the bureaucracy, which, at any rate, is no problem at all, because it only needs a key press to create a electoral list for a particular electoral day. Because the question is raised again and again, how can it be predicted who 18 will be if the day of determining the conditions on the day of the deadline lies before this: It is not as difficult to predict that, and the score ratio is about 100 percent. There is also this in the current system. If you remember, we had on 23rd. ==References====External links== The day on which it was determined who was entitled to vote and who did not, was the 12th. November. It was also necessary to predict who was on the 1st of June. January 16 will be – and see, it was possible, and there was no problem at all! The first request is therefore intended for those who do not yet have the maturity to take the whole two steps at once. At least it will make it easier for them to jump a little above their own shadows by at least agreeing to the first request. I think there is really nothing against the fact that the deadline is regulated in this way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e17106	The next speaker was Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e17124	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I think it should be possible to exchange views quite openly at a first reading and not to speak of them, especially if one is still in a debate on the right to vote, that someone may not yet be ready to agree to any of the proposals you wish to make. – I think that is not a question of maturity, but of political opinion, and I think you should take note of this, too, of the Social Democrats, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, I can't get your desire, the age of election or the right to vote from the calendar, i.e. from the 1st century. To make a lot dependent on the year in question. In our legal order, it is fixed that the electoral age for federal elections is 18 years. There is even the question of whether one can live up to this provision, if, at the beginning of the year, at a fixed date for voting rights, the specific electoral day is sometime in December and then the electoral age de facto is almost 19 years. The question arises whether a regulation contrary to the law was imposed or fixed. I just don't know if it is possible to take the day of election as a deadline for the electoral age – or whether it would not be better to resort to the original rules, which, I think, until 1992, have been given the deadline for the election even as the deadline for the election, in order to avoid strange bureaucratic processes, then to have to consider who will still be eligible for election during the next two months until the election, because he then still reaches the electoral age. But we can then discuss this in the Committee. That would also be a question for the Constitutional Convention, which is now being constituted. My group would also be very interested in finally having the right to vote for the Austrians abroad in the context of the letter election. facilitate, namely, that bureaucratic barriers do not really oppose the right to vote for all Austrian citizens. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As far as the electoral age is concerned, I am very much in favour of allowing young people 16 years of age to vote on a local level. I am very much in favour of allowing them access to instruments of direct democracy such as popular desire, referendums and popular surveys. – This is now also bound at the federal level to the electoral age. In any case, we should discuss this because we see that young people in particular are particularly interested in participating in these citizens' initiatives. For reducing the right to vote at federal level to 16 years, I personally have had sympathy, since my time as the chairman of our youth organization. But there are also very serious opinions here that this may be too early for the federal level. I am not saying that people who object to this are “too little mature” but I would like to start an intensive discourse with these people, whether it makes sense to correct the right to vote at the federal level. I personally am open to this, but I assume that in the Committee and also in the Constitutional Convention, which we have set up on such fundamental issues, there is sufficient opportunity to decide on a comprehensive positive change in the right to vote in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e17188	The next speaker was Mrs Mandak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e17209	Mr President. High house! In advance, I would like to say: Of course, we support the fact that the right to vote for elections should come to the representatives of non-Austrian citizens. A first success in this direction has already been achieved by the list of “joint” in Vorarlberg, which has opposed the fact that Turkish fellow citizens were not allowed to candidate for the works chamber elections in Vorarlberg. – There is now a decision of the EU Court of Justice: they are allowed! I think that is a way in the right direction, which we definitely support. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the issue of reducing the electoral age to 16 years: This is, of course, a permanent burner. This question has accompanied me since I was politically active. Mr Scheibner, there has certainly been a movement in this question and debate, although at the beginning only the Greens have done so. The Socialists and Socialists have followed – and fortunately also several members of the FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder]] There are many country organisations – including Vorarlberg – that actively support the 16th-century election. You can certainly talk about it – even if you don’t want to call it “time of maturity” – that there is a political process going on, which hopefully will continue in this direction. It is currently true that 16-year-olds, as different as they may be in their development, de facto make very big decisions themselves. They make decisions as to their training. For example, they have the opportunity to make decisions as to whether they want to be treated medically or not and how. You can drive Moped, drive from 17 years old. - All of this is acceptable to them. They are to take responsibility in these areas. We believe that they are also very mature and ready for the responsibility to exercise the right to vote. I think they deserve this trust, they deserve to be trusted. We believe in them very much, and we should therefore also trust them that they can go this way. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A very important argument, which has not yet fallen, is the development of the population we are facing. We all know that the population pyramid is developing in such a way that in the future there will be more and more older and older people who are eligible – and less and less younger. I think it is very important, in this sense too, to put a counter-police, since we are obliged to make policy, especially for younger and young people, to address them, to be politically active and to make choices. I am thinking about social matters, but also about the environment. We must not be afraid of this challenge. Let's take care of it! It would be very nice if the Committee could adopt a unanimous decision on voting age 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e17275	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e17294	Mr President. High house! I would like to add one aspect to the debate which has not yet been brought into effect, namely the active participation of young people, which is at my heart as a young politician. It is simply about allowing young people not only to vote in order to be able to advertise their votes, but: Real youth participation begins by taking into account the responsibility of young people in municipal elections, in country elections, as well as in national elections. This is the living and actual involvement of the youth – and only in this way can the view of the youth be brought in. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Living youth policy also begins by making democracy learning. I can still remember very well that I was told at school as a school speaker, if you say something negative to your teacher's representative – who was by chance my mathematics teacher – in the school community committee, he looks at your schoolwork not only once, but twice, and if you're "stupid", then you get a worse note. I believe that the approach of living democracy is to be sought, and not only – but also – in reducing the electoral age. I fully agree with my previous speaker that only the demographic argument is that it should be taken into account. In my view, too much attention is given to pensioners in all elections. You can now see it again at the pension discussion – clearly, because each party sees who its largest target group is. These are demographically the pensioners. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You say that!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The ÖVP has said that!]] Accordingly, you try to scatter sugars here, and with the boys something is always cut off. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we are now at the electoral age debate and in the discussion of whether the election day should be the deadline. I would ask you to focus on it. To this end, I would like to say that the ÖVP has not only thought about reducing the age of elections at local level, but has already been implemented by us in many federal states. The Burgenland – I am a Burgenländerin – is a positive example with 80 percent voter participation. - That's something great. The experience is that the young people have therefore gone to the election, because they have been careful to set up youth candidates because they have been promised in many of the communities we led – and that has been redeemed – to set up a youth committee, and, of course, there are known politicians and the matter is one that takes place so to speak at the doorstep. Nevertheless, and above all, I believe that this comprehensive reduction in the electoral age should be undertaken at local level in all the federal states. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] If this is implemented, you can evaluate it and discuss how it looks at the national and federal levels. [[Abg. Eder: In Vienna there is already that, but there was the ÖVP against it!]] I would like to quote another study by the AKS, which is the socialist youth or school organisation, which results in 63 percent of the AHS, BHS and vocational students refusing to reduce the age of election. I believe that young people's needs must also be taken into account. – This is a study that you have commissioned. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No, that's not true at all!]] – I quote an OTS message from 14. Feber from the AKS. With regard to the “Equivalency Day” I can only say that this was already a regulation on which all four parties have agreed orally in the campaign. Accordingly, I see nothing in the way of positive treatment in the sense of youth for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e17394	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e17412	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Fuhrmann, from her experience, spoke about co-determination in schools. I also believe that there should be some extension. On the other hand, in the last legislative period, I was not only annoyed at the fact that exactly where we have a very good right of co-determination, namely at the universities – at the Austrian high school with almost third parity – it was tried by all means to curtail these co-determination possibilities. You still have a lot of persuasion to do in your party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Scheibner has signaled approval and willingness to talk to many of these points. I also believe that there are many reasonable points that have been raised here, above all – and I could be friends with the proposal that you have made in addition – that, with regard to the 1992 deadline, one should resort to the 1992 regulation so that it can no longer happen as at the elections last November, that some young adults are 18 years and 11 months old in the worst case, and then cannot go to the election. Today, it has been mentioned more often that young people are responsible for a lot of business, for example, in the civil law sense, that they can also marry – one of the most massive contracts that can be concluded. There you will be able to choose at the age of 18! In order to reduce the electoral age to 16 years of age, I would like to express my opinion because, as chairman of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, I too have tabled a request for citizens' initiatives to be introduced at the age of 16, because it is very important that the young people in our country have the opportunity to participate where they are concerned. This is living citizenship, that is living democracy, and that would also contribute to harmonisation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Then, for young people, the possibility of the citizens' initiatives that can be brought in, the referendums, the popular surveys and, after consultation with experts such as Mr Friedrich, perhaps, the possibility of the election age reduction – also for federal elections – to 16 years. The last point: The fact that a decision of the European Court of Justice has required that the right to vote in active and passive terms has been enforced at least for EU nationals, and if it belongs to the Association Agreement of Turkey, is embarrassing. I am in favour of all foreigners being allowed to choose representatives of interests and to register for them, for example, when they work here in Austria. It's high time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to make a comment to you, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner. You have already referred to the Convention the last time we discussed the request for citizens' initiatives and rights of the public prosecutor's office at first reading and said that we should deal with it there. However, we could act in the same way with some legislative proposals, for example with regard to the set-aside regime, in which there is more or less consensus, or with citizens' initiatives, with popular surveys and with referendums. We didn't have to wait that long, and this Convention wouldn't be overburdened. We could decide and provide services to citizens – and direct democracy as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e17479	The last speaker to speak was Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e17497	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I should like to draw my attention to the fact that before the National Council election in various discussions of the then youth spokespersons, we had achieved consensus that the deadline should be adjusted. Mrs Fuhrmann has been announced to comment clearly on this. – I have not heard whether this is a consensus that this set-a-side scheme, as always, should be adapted in such a way that the injustice of the last election no longer occurs. It would be important to me to hold: This consensus existed before the election – and I hope that this will continue to be true.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e17533	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with requests 95/A and 96/A to the Constitutional Committee. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-05-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e17567	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 115/A to 126/A have been tabled. Questions 373/J to 385/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 8. May 2003, 9 a.m. – The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the room. This meeting will start at a current hour. Today's sitting is closed.
