ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4056	The meeting was opened. Meeting of the ordinary meeting 2003/2004
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4078	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 11. According to Article 28(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the National Council for the 15th of September 2003 ==References====External links==* Official website This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 31. Parliament's management session remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported DDr. Niederwieser and Dr. Van der Bellen. The clubman of the Green Dr. Van der Bellen was released to the reconvalescence yesterday after a long hospital stay. I am convinced that he is sitting in front of the TV today and is looking at the current hour, whose theme selection comes from his green group. I think we're going to send him home all the best requests for recovery. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4117	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner is represented by the Federal Minister for Health and Women Maria Rauch-Kallat. I should also like to ask Members to take note of the fact that, in accordance with the Presidential Decision of 18 December 1988, they are On September 25, 2003, the signature of their statements made in the National Council for the purpose of authorizing them by e-mail. ==References====External links== The distribution in paper form – the famous white folders with red-and-white stripes – belongs to the past. We switched to e-mail, e-government and the IT sector. I would like to thank the Stenographenburo for being able to provide the seat information very quickly. The Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor have announced their intention to make statements on the topic “The Priorities of the Federal Government for Autumn 2003”. I have had these statements on the agenda as points 1 and 2. On the other hand, the Green Group has announced objections. We will hold a debate on this after the end of the current hour, but before entering the agenda. The statements and the subsequent debate will then take place, in accordance with the decisions of the House, either as points 1 and 2 or at any other time. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4166	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Road ban for instincts – measures against transit insanity” First of all, Mrs Lichtenberger has spoken. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4191	Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you a good morning. A nice good morning at a noise level, which – although still many are talking – is still much lower than that along the Austrian transit routes. [[Call members of the ÖVP: Good morning!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's time! It's more than high time. In Tyrol, the following words are appropriate: “Mander, it’s time!” Nowadays, you have to say: Men and women, it's time! – which is simple and touching because it will only take 99 days for the last restriction currently in place for heavy traffic to fall. The transit contract will expire officially, an agreement on successors is not yet on the table. We still have to be unsure whether there will be such a regulation or not, and whether to protect the population in the affected areas, in the burdened zones after the 1st century. Action will continue to be taken in January 2004. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a trivial situation, it is not the agitation of any particularly sensitive people, but the problem is that the pollutant values – and that should also be your interest in the back ranks of the government parties – are in the Inntal, for example, in one of the most heavily burdened areas at all, 30 percent too high. There are not only huge excesses in the nitrogen oxides, but also major problems in dust particles. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need a set of measures to ensure and guarantee public health. Finally, Mrs Rauch-Kallat recently referred to health care as one of the important principles. However, she spoke only of defeating the inner pig dog and also carried this inner pig dog as an inflated plastic animal. Ladies and gentlemen! However, there is not only the internal pig dog that makes health care so to speak, but it needs measures from the sides of politics. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We need, not only in the event that the transit contract expires without replacement, but at least a replacement for these regulations – but not just a replacement, we need more! We need more measures and stronger measures to finally get this situation under control. We therefore need a package of measures, which includes the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities and involves all in these precautions against the burden of transport. I am now talking about the most growing sector in transport, heavy traffic. There are great difficulties with long-distance freight traffic. I have proposed measures against these burdens already before and very often. In the Transport Committee, these packages of measures are usually postponed, so I am now taking the opportunity to list them in detail. One of the most central measures is a measure that is non-discriminatory in heavy transport, i.e. without protectionism for local freighters, which gets pollutants under control. There we have – admittedly a little plausible – also settled our theme of the current hour, namely “Treaty for Sinks”. We have proposed measures to remove particularly heavy goods vehicles from the market. [[The Green MEPs are keeping truck bans up to date.]] As you probably know, there are truck pollutants classes of Euro 1, 2 and 3. Unfortunately, Euro-0 trucks are still on their way. [[Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber and Dr. Gabriela Moser set up a truck ban before the government bank with the label “Fahrverbot für Stinker”.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: But that's not possible!]] There are almost no Austrians, however, with these trucks, but mainly southern Europeans. This would be a necessary measure, including you, Mr. Collegue, not only in the Tyrolean Inntal, but also in the case of those federal states that will be very affected by transit traffic in the future. [[Abg. Großruck: This is not gender neutral! And “Sink inside ”!]] We Greens propose that trucks of the Euro 0, Euro 1 and Euro 2 pollutant class are replaced by the Euro 3 pollutant class, that is, by what is currently the most advanced type on the market. This also applies, of course, to the domestic economy. This is a measure to speed up the conversion to low-pollutant trucks, for the following very simple reason: After the transit contract expires, there is no longer any motivation for our economy to convert to low-pollutant trucks. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Parliament staff must hack because the Greens are not able to take care of order! That's a cut-off!]] Mr. Klubobmann Molterer! If you feel that what we have put up here is a great burden, then I remember the bird model of the ÖVP fraction, which was set up here before the summer and where the bird put its head in the sand. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You have no respect for the employees of this house!]] Mr Molterer, there has been no excitement on your part. But when it comes to the health of the population along the transit routes, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it will probably not be too much if a cardboard sign that is set up here needs to be carried away. You should settle down in the Inn Valley, then you would see how “loving” it is if they had to close the windows and stop in the garden when the heavy traffic is driving. Ladies and gentlemen, this is unreasonable! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Worm.]] The ban on the trucks of pollutant classes Euro 0, Euro 1 and Euro 2 will not solve much in NOx, i.e. nitrogen oxides, but it will definitely bring improvements in particles, i.e. in the case of particulate matter. My colleague, Mr Greenewald, will address this later. There is one of the biggest health risks just by increasing the lung-damaging particles. But since this measure can not only be taken in the countries and will not be sufficient there, we also need new federal, sharp controls, we also need a bundle of measures at this level. There are now far too few full control points in the ASFINAG's plans for heavy traffic control. The whole of Austria, for example, is a black hole with regard to these controls. There's nothing there, there's nothing planned either. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a problem, because even in Austria the heavy trucks will drive, working hours and steering times will be the rule. For reasons of road safety, but of course also for reasons of price pressure on the road and social dumping, these trucks must be pulled out of transport. Above all, it is necessary to draw entrepreneurs out of the market who allow, create and promote such humiliating and cruel working conditions in heavy traffic. That is why we have called on Greens – and are still calling for it – to commit social fraud, as they are taking place here, really more severe punishments and not to allow companies to get away with a cheap fine. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Contaminants don't have a mesh. The time of protectionism in the European Union must be over. The time when the other EU countries could accuse us of exclusively favouring the local fishermen in order to lead, as it were, an economic war must be over. On the one hand, we must put in place credible measures, a credible package of measures in order to finally act again at European level, but on the other hand, I am sorry for Mr Gorbach, for what has been lost in recent years, he has now been banished. [[Abg. Wattaul: That's where you have to start!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Support our package of measures in the Transport Committee! In this way you take an important step against traffic pollution and the health of people in Austria, especially those in the burdened areas along the motorways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4330	Mr Gorbach, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4348	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen. I would have had nothing against this sign if it were not for formal reasons, because: Sinkers, wherever they may be anywhere, on the road or anywhere else, I don't like to, and I'm quite prepared to say a ban on such trucks. That is where we are on the same line, Mrs Deputies. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Then let's do it!]] When I saw the signs with the truck bans that were shown here with you, I have already come to my mind that you probably read your paper this morning, a fresh semi-trailer, perhaps also a muesli or a crunchy bread, and perhaps also the fact that all this was probably not transported by plane, not by train, not by tram and also not by ship from A to B, but that it already needs transports with the truck, with the small truck, to ensure precisely the prosperity that we also like to enjoy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What I would like to say in the introduction is simply the finding – with all the sensitivity to this issue, which I also have, you believe me! –: It's wrong to start playing the truck, the road, the road against other modes of transport again! That's wrong! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We must do everything we can to ensure that we have as little truck traffic as possible on the road so that we can transport as many goods as possible on the rails, but we must not play these two modes against each other, but we must see that we combine them wisely. [[Abg. Oellinger: Tell the Secretary of State!]] Then it is ensured that the economy has its ways, then it is guaranteed that you and I and all of us will get the goods we need. Then it is also ensured that we can discuss a reasonable transport policy in this country. [[Abg. Oillinger: Talk to your State Secretary!]] Madam President, you know very well that I have been very much committed to the fact that the transit agreement is being extended in the form of a transitional solution, and you know very well that I have been very far-reaching in Brussels for the fact that the road cost directive which we have promised finally comes into the debate at least at the moment. The former is still negotiating. I have at least achieved in bilateral discussions that my colleague Lunardi is doing everything to stop delays. He does that, he keeps word: He's been running the working group. ==References====External links== It was treated as an A-point in the Competition Council on September and can therefore be formally entered into the conciliation procedure, and it has also agreed and accelerated the other steps together with me. We have this road on the 10th. and, at the same time, agreed to seek compromises again, regardless of the conciliation procedure. But you also know that more than 10 years ago, it was just not possible to agree on a follow-up or extension arrangement and that is why we are at least in a legally unfavourable position from the point of view of the others. We are still fighting until the last second, ladies and gentlemen, you can believe that! I do not need a current hour in Parliament to do so. I've got in Tyrol – and I'm standing for that! – said that I will fight for a successor, not only as a minister of transport for an Austrian minister of transport, not only as a citizen, to whom the environment, to which the health of the fellow human beings is worth, but I will fight as if I were a affected Tyrolean. Believe me! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Faith Furthermore, as regards transit, which has adopted an extent in Tyrol, which is really not reasonable, we are also concerned about how we can make improvements within the country. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Not only in Tirol!]] Believe me, it wasn't a coincidence that I was on the 20th. August, after using the summer season and thinking about it, in Tyrol introduced a model that is not the final solution, but at least a drop on the hot stone. In fact, I think it is a good idea to install transport-influence systems as soon as possible, as this will help us manage the traffic that is inevitable and, secondly, to link these transport-influenced plants, which will be installed with an investment volume of € 200 million by 2008 Austria-wide, first of all to the Immission-Measures, particularly in sensitive areas. I have therefore promised that the implementation order in the 30 million € scale order will be awarded by me in September, that the transport impact system in the Greater Innsbruck region will be the first to be completed by the end of next year, so that once the pollutant emissions, the air pollution, the entire problem reaches a certain limit value, there will be opportunities to respond by pronouncing driving bans for certain truck classes, for example Euro 0, Euro 1 and Euro 2, by setting measures such as a speed reduction, if this ensures that air pollution is reduced and more similar. – I think this is an idea that is at least worthy of persecution. We'll see what she's bringing. However, I also think it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, that we continue to fight for it and create incentives for the carriage of goods from the trucks to be transferred to the rails. I already have to mention that – you're usually just taking note of this – it wasn't that easy, on the 10th. September, together with colleagues Lunardi, to sign a memorandum setting out the phase 2 of the Brenner Base Tunnel, i.e. with regard to the financing of technical feasibility as regards the preparation of the State Treaty as regards the execution in detail, the time management, so that the Brenner Base Tunnel is to be ready for construction by 2006. It is all precise, detailed, and thus already 90 million € have been released – 50 percent of the EU is paying, the rest are shared by Italy and Austria. With this €90 million, more detailed planning is being planned, test drilling is carried out, negotiations are conducted, financing models are created and similar more. So we're going a big step further towards relocating to the rails. Take this, please, also notice positively! Be well-willed and realize that this Austrian Federal Government, that this Austrian Transport Minister has recognised the problem, the sensitivity, also the time pressure, and does everything for it – in Austria, in Tyrol, in Italy, in Brussels – in order to improve the situation, in particular that of the arrainers, not only in Tyrol, but also at the Pyrnpass, also at Tauernpass, and to redesign the quality of life half way so that it can be acceptable that it is also suitable to rejoice when you live there. Another thing that doesn't seem unimportant to me, because I promised to say this on every occasion: Do you know what's affecting me? – I am also affected by the effects of Austrian truck traffic, not only transit traffic, but also overall, which are to be read in the WHO report – they will know it, it is undisputed and undisputed – according to which due to the pollution emissions of Austrian trucks per year 2400 premature deaths occur, 2700 additional cases of chronic bronchitis in adults, 20 600 additional cases of chronic bronchitis in children under 15 years of age and 1.3 million additional days of illness. You can't mention that often enough! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's why we do it!]] [[Abg. Sburny:... don't do anything about it!]] Do you know who I told last night? – Mr Riccardo Illy, the President of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region, who visited me and also wanted to talk to me about more ecopoints and why we don’t finally forget all of this, we should force free movement of goods. I told him these numbers, and that was the conversation on a different level, because it also affects him. So: We're doing everything you can do anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Too little!]] Help us! Let's do this together! Mrs Colleague, it would have been very useful if your group in the EU Parliament did not agree to the Caveri report, but represented the Austrian interests. But that was not the case. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Perhaps it is now possible to represent the Austrian interests together in the conciliation procedure. I am always in favour of having a common approach, since I am well aware of the sensitivity of transit problems with the key decision-makers in this conciliation procedure, with the Austrian delegates in the EU Parliament. You can't blame me for bagatellising this. But it's also clear: I will never take advantage of the situation around the truck and transit on the road to raise people against the economy in order to put jobs at risk with legitimate concerns. We need everything! It also belongs to the quality of life a workplace, also a transport from A to B – and a healthy environment. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: These are not jobs,... more slavery!]] We'll do the best we can to get it to a hat.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4509	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers must not exceed 5 minutes in the current hour. Mr Keussnigg has now been reported on the floor. – I give the floor to you, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4530	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today we are already dealing with transit problems for the third time in a very short time – in July at the special meeting of the National Council and here and today at the request of the Tyrolean Greens. [[Abg. Wattaul: election campaign!]] I am not going to get rid of the feeling that this subject, which in itself needs a cross-party consensus, is increasingly being misused into the activist platform, on the back of the population – as can be seen on the theme of today's current hour. I can add that the wording of the title has already appeared to me a bit inseparable, which is really inappropriate in view of the seriousness of the subject. If one introduces the ban on driving here in isolation and indiscriminately, as you put it here, it is mainly the home economy and the domestic jobs, as the domestic economy has much longer cycles of procurement than the international transport companies with their enormous annual kilometres of services that can be renewed much faster. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: They were always so clean, you said!]] Those businesses in the country that ensure the local services that run the short distances have older vehicles and cannot change as quickly as possible. I am not against the fact that we are discussing the medium-term ban of classes Euro 0, Euro 1 and Euro 2, but what do you say to these businesses? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is interesting! Very interesting!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Transition aid!]] What do you say to these local and regional transporters? What do you say to the regional construction industry? What do you say? You can't change these thousands of families as quickly as possible and their existence is concerned? So we need these answers before we discuss the issue of ban. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: There are those, Mr. Colleague, who are there! The answers are there!]] In addition, this ban is partly wrong in the matter, because without the involvement of national and international transit, a solution is not possible in the matter. You said it in your own speech – and I looked at it very carefully –: The share of heavy traffic in nitrogen oxide emissions is increasing steadily, from 40 percent in 1980 to 54 percent in 1991 and 66% in 2000. To tax only the domestic economy is therefore a completely wrong measure! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's not true! You didn't understand!]] Now on the measures we need, of course, to protect the health of the population and the environment. The sectoral ban imposed by the Tyrolean Government on products and goods whose transport can be most easily transferred to the railways is the right answer. There's one opinion, I'm glad. That's the right answer in the matter. And this...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4638	Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger! At the request of the women in the presidential conference, we have found that the speakers should not be constantly disturbed by intermediate calls, and not even from a foreign seat. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would ask you and everyone else not to constantly disturb the speakers. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But that did not go for the VPlers who called in with me!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr deputies, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4680	Mrs Lichtenberger! The disturbance of your speech is mainly due to the fact that you have set up traffic signs here. You have to find out! [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No! That was Col. Großruck!]] Regardless of how the European Court of Justice will decide, the policy of shifting transport to rail must continue to be pursued through market-based incentives, through legal accompanying measures. The transit policy is much more complex than you are trying to present it here. There are a number of construction sites. But in recent weeks and months, for example, the question of the Brenner base tunnel has gone a lot further. For this purpose, €90 million will be made available by the European Union, Italy, for the planning and construction of this essential infrastructure. At the Inntal-Eisenbahn the first building is already for granted, there is the largest construction site in Tyrol. There are still a number of other measures that illustrate the networking of transit policy. This is about the rolling country road...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4717	Your speaking time has expired, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4739	Thank you. – I would just like to say as a final sentence: Moving transport to the railways, with all the necessary accompanying measures, is the right way, and it must continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4766	The next honourable Member, Mr Mag, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Worm. Speaking time: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4784	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is certain: Tirol suffocates in traffic! Every year, transit journeys are increasing, their number in our country is now at an average of 1.7 million trucks per year. At the end of the year, as it now looks, the transit contract will expire, and then the real madness on Tyrol's streets begins. This means that no pollutant limitation and no more reduction in travel. Not quite innocent of this, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Keussnigg, is the ÖVP, because, while the head of state van Staa often plays the powerful man in Tyrol, when he comes to Vienna, he is not that loud anymore, then he often goes to his knees – and in Brussels the same thing happens. We have our own EU office in Brussels, but you don't hear anything and you don't see anything! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also have important men in the ÖVP, who come from Tyrol. Mr President, I would not like to take this opportunity to say: Where's your fight for the country? Or do you care about people in Tyrol in this case, Mr President? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: He's an important man, that's true!]] A major problem that we have in Tyrol – which has already been dealt with several times in the statements of the Minister for Transport – is the health damage to our population. Children and old people especially suffer from this transit madness. Respiratory disorders such as bronchitis are reported, also increased blood pressure due to noise and stress factors, as well as concentration difficulties. All of this has to do with our children, the elderly and others who do not have stable health. One of the special features of Tyrolean transit traffic is that it is an Alpine region, where there is a so-called funnel function, as a result of which we have to fight with another topography compared to other areas, for example in the flatlands, with equal numbers of rides with much higher emissions and greater pollution. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! They are the ones who decide the laws. Support us! Support the Tyrolean population, because the suffering pressure is already enormous, and it will increase a lot after the transit tragedy has expired. How long we can bear this, I think, in the stars. A lot has already happened. As chairman of the Committee on Citizens' Initiatives, I must say: It hardly goes on a day when not one citizen initiative approaches me and tells me a tragic story after another, and they've mostly been fighting for years, but nothing goes on! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Reheis, Mr Niederweiser, and I met on 12 February. On 1 August this year, a motion for a resolution on this matter was put to the Government in order to achieve a rethinking of the government or more emphasis on our demands. We have always stated our demands openly, they are clear: the immediate opening of negotiations for a follow-up to transit traffic, the introduction of road pricing from 1. January 2004 – it was forever delayed by the ÖVP! – the adoption of the Road Costs Directive by the EU with cross-financing and the definition of the sensitive Alpine zone. The latter is a particularly important point. Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel has failed to extend the Alpine zone to the whole of Austria, and I do not need to emphasize that we are not taken seriously during negotiations in Brussels. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Minister Gorbach! You have repeatedly pointed out, even in your last opinions, that it must be top priority to shift traffic from road to rail. Let us take an example on this point in Switzerland! I think that's obvious. You come from there, so to speak, your neighbouring country is Switzerland. [[Federal Minister Gorbach: Not from Switzerland!]] You certainly have many links there. That's what I think Austria and Tyrol are doing. I do not agree with you the good will, Mr Gorbach! Just yesterday, I spoke to EU Member Hannes Swoboda. They're trying hard. [[Call to the liberals:Bravo!]] However, they also have much to do with what has been muttered by this federal government within the last three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4872	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You referred directly to me as a Tyrolean Member. I cannot answer you from this place when the President-in-Office of the Council, unfortunately, you know, but my colleague Hermann Gahrd will answer that I too am constantly committed to the concerns of the Brenner Base Tunnel. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Wittauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4908	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, it is strange that you are here in the Chamber of Speakers as though the Social Democrats were not responsible for this state. They are in the state government, and there decisions have been taken, but there they will not be implemented, but exceptions will be granted. We just heard this again recently: Mrs Landesratin Hosp gave additional derogations, but you are talking here of credibility to Brussels! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: We are the only ones who have done something!]] I really think it's strange that you trust to get out of here and make others responsible for what you owe yourself. [[Abg. May. Worm: We are the only ones who have done something!]] Of course, it is very good that you praise Minister Gorbach, we also praise him because we know what he has done in the past, but the fact is that there have been no shortcomings in the last three years that he has had to work out, but that he has worked out the shortcomings of the time when the Social Democrats have made the Transport Ministers. We have an increased transit agreement that expires, and we are fighting for it to continue, but we are fighting not only for this solution, because it is probably difficult to implement, but together with Willi Tilg and our Minister, we have presented solutions. But what have we heard from the other parties? – It wouldn't be a good solution, yes it would be bad. I would therefore like to explain to you what we mean by that. It is a transport management system in Tyrol, in which 30 million are used at the beginning of the German Government. This system in Tyrol will be considered a pilot project, there will be emission measuring stations connected to the traffic control system in order to be able to react immediately in situations where health risks are involved. This is also the Euro 0, Euro 1 and Euro 2 classes. These are now veterans among our vehicles; in Tyrol there are no longer so many of them because the economy has already changed. But we must not attack the alone, but we must say: If emissions are too high, measures must apply to all! This means that we prove credibility to Brussels and that Brussels also gives us certain things. As far as health effects are concerned, I would like to remind you that Landesratin Zanon recently said in a radio show that people have more of a psychological problem because we're blaming too much. To your argument that people would have more of a psychological problem, Mrs. Landesratin, I would like to say to you that you should just listen: 2 400 premature deaths, 2 007 additional cases of chronic bronchitis, 20 600 additional cases of chronic bronchitis in children, 15,000 additional asthma attacks in children and over 1.3 million additional sick days! – These are figures that a national councillor must also accept. I call on the state government to take action in its areas and to support Mr Gorbach, who very well recognized this serious problem of Tyrol, and therefore the Tyroleans are the first to be equipped with this traffic control system. It's always saying everything's going too slowly. - No! We have heard that the call for tender will be completed in autumn, the award will take place, and in 2004 we will receive this emission-coupled traffic management system. So this is a medium-term measure. By the way, the Brenner Base Tunnel is not a failure of this federal government, but we know today that this Brenner Base Tunnel could only take up the additional traffic. We will therefore have to think about long-term solutions, about solutions that go far beyond that. The Brenner Base Tunnel is something we need. The freedom ministers – and Minister Gorbach in particular – have really been there for acceleration. The first flooring for the tunnel in the Unterinntal has already taken place. What else can we do? – We can only intervene directly and must not make any difference. In case of doubt, we must decide on the health of our people, on the health of our children and our youth, and only then should we consider how far this will affect the economy. The economy is flexible, and the economy has also shown in the past that it can adapt to changes – only you can make no exceptions. The state government under the head of state van Staa makes permanent exceptions, and therefore the sectoral ban has not kept either. Unfortunately, it is God's way of thinking that before the Brussels election campaign, the decision had been so decided that there was an order; normally, the decision would have been much later. We all know that! It is a hypocritical policy of this state government, and I therefore call on the Tyroleans to set limits on this power. Choose free, then choose something good!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4972	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. 5 minutes speaking time. – You are speaking, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e4990	Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. We've heard the transit contract is due. We have heard, Minister Gorbach, that you still want to do everything possible. [[Abg. Scheibner: I hope you know that for a long time?- Oh, my God!]] Minister Gorbach! They were state councillors! You were the Landesrat in Vorarlberg and you did not tell us! – took very massive measures in road construction, advanced the development of transport routes, increased transit traffic through Vorarlberg through road construction, and increased overall the load from stinkers and the load from lärmin-intensive trucks, Minister. [[Federal Minister Gorbach: 10 percent!]] That's what you've been telling us! [[In the case of the greens who keep round signs in the height on which a ban on trucks is shown, and in the case of representatives of the SPÖ.]] Minister! On the question of prosperity: the questions of life, the questions of health, Mr Minister, are my first priority. You would have to know for a long time that 190 people die each year from the effects of noise pollution. I am not yet talking about the fine dusts; Mr Grünewald will address the problem of fine dust, the destruction of lungs and show the corresponding death rate here. I'll tell you: It's only because you donate such instincts, such noise excavators relatively unabated through Austria and make them drive on Austria's streets that you risk life, and you're not supposed to go away easily and say: Oh, my God, for breakfast we need a semitrailer! This is ridiculous, Minister. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But true!]] We all know that the so-called transit problem can in no way be reduced to Alpine valleys. There the population is most burdened, not a question, but the transit problem is a total Austrian problem. The load caused by truck exhaust gases, by truck noise, by soil consumption, by soil revision is also a total Austrian problem. There is the eastern region, where Upper Austria is at least as burdened as what leads to pollutants, like Tyrol, like the Alpine region, only there is even more massive sense. I would just like to call you a number from my own country, a number that shows how much transit traffic in the truck sector on the Innkreis motorway, an essential transit route, has increased: Between 1994 and 2000, daily traffic figures tripled, from 1,677 trucks to more than 6,340 trucks! A triple in a comparatively short time span! Just what's going on in the noise, a triple is a sense, a sense that really goes massively to the health substance of the people. Finally, read the medical literature! Sleep disorders are at the top of the list of loads. Sleep disorders cause hormonal difficulties, weaken the immune system. That's what I'm thinking. For decades now, you've been to the locals! This consumption increases every year, because this burden increases by every year. The death rate also increases every year. They're all responsible for it. If you do not support the reduction packages, the alternative packages from the parties concerned, by the alternative green politician, and that is the terrifying thing for me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They provide aid to sleep disorders, you provide aid to increase blood pressure, you provide aid in increasing heart rate, you provoke heart attacks. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Go, please!]] You know exactly that four out of five Austrians complain in a massive way about traffic noise. Mr Minister, there is a long-standing need for action in this regard. There is no noise protection law in Austria. We have an air emission protection law, but we don't have any noise protection law. Imagine that! There is no claim for protection from noise, but only passive action: Noise protection walls, a little bit of asphalt. But all of this does not start with the causes, and we must avoid the causes! Please don't just think about noise at the cost! [[Abg. Murauer: There are not as many noise protection walls across Europe as there are in Austria!]] The cost of noise alone is relatively high: 741 million € per year related to noise damage. [[The red bell flashes on the speaker's mouth, and President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] But think also of the traffic accidents! You know exactly: Trucks are often involved in road accidents that result in many deaths. Increase truck controls. That would be a security factor, which is also a security factor...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5117	Your speaking time has been over for a long time. Please, a short end!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5132	The short final sentence reads as follows: It's too little for me when an environmental minister goes to the bicycle. We have to keep thinking for a long time, and we have not done so.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5159	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5178	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Wurm, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, cannot answer you. You found out here he didn't do anything. I may, in order to say correctly what you have said, say: Mr President, in the past period, Khol has been a major contributor to the construction of the Unterinntal-Trasse, and he is also currently working very intensively for the implementation of the Brenner-Base Tunnel project. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We agree that transit measures are needed to protect our people and to preserve the habitat and health of our people. I cannot understand some panicsome statements that have been made by Members of the Green Group today. In this way you are insecure the people and certainly do not contribute to the fair and proper discussion of this issue. Yes, we need to limit transit, we need steering measures, we need investment, we need new concepts, but I also ask that we deal with this issue a little more sensitive and not make it all bad. The economy is not our enemy, the economy is our partner, and only with the economy can we get the transit problem under control. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So we need national measures and EU-wide measures, and Austria is a pioneer – this can be said with pride – when it comes to displaying transit charges and the effects of these burdens in Europe and implementing measures to reduce transit. Above all, it was the Tyrolean state government, which made itself massively involved, especially the head of state Herwig van Staa, who, in his short term, brought massive momentum into the transit discussion and there appeared massively – vis-à-vis Brussels, opposite South Tyrol, opposite Bavaria and, of course, towards Vienna. There have never been as many measures as in recent times: Road pricing is being implemented, sulphur-free Diesel is introduced, the recognition as a sensitive zone is in progress, there is a night driving ban in Tyrol, the Unterinntal-Trasse is being built, the Brenner-Base Tunnel is located in the planning and implementation phase, and there is an honest effort by the Federal Minister Gorbach that we also receive a successor sailing or transitional arrangement for the transit contract. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But what do our greens do? – They have acted against the construction of the Unterinntal-Trasse, Clubobfrau Glawischnig calls the Brenner-Basistunnel as a “quiet village” or its realization as a money destruction, Tirol’s green clubman Georg Willi travels to Germany and he writes letters – out comes nothing, we see no answers –, Greens vote against and threatens a closed position in Brussels, Greens compare Austria with the EU-Non-Member State Switzerland, Greens reject participations, and Greens speak of chaos and Debakel and do not bring anything on themselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There are national measures. For example, controls were reinforced. To ban the truck is too cheap, Mrs Lichtenberger. They have probably never created or received a job. There are seven carpenter companies in my village. One truck is 20 years old, driving between 5,000 and 7 000 kilometres a year, and cannot be exchanged every year. You should take over the investments for these small and medium-sized enterprises once, then you would think differently. I think you should question the measure and the reality once. There are many transport operators who simply cannot afford such investments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Think also of the jobs, think of the people who want to secure prosperity and quality of life! [[Abg. Brosz: We do!]] We need two ways for the future: One is once the train. It needs to be expanded and professionalized. We need an orderly transport of goods on the train, we need a new logistics, we need new concepts in passenger and remote transport, and therefore I wish our State Secretary Kukacka a lot of feeling and happiness in implementing the ÖBB reform! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: A lot of feeling – he can need that!]] But we also need to get our own mobility, the road. We need the road to maintain the economic area and to enable the economy to ensure our own mobility, which each of us here in this House – each one probably has a car in his household, many two, and so we need our road –. We are aware of responsibility. It needs long-term concepts, ongoing initiatives, even hard negotiations, but there is certainly no need for panic. Tirol is a beautiful country, and with the head of state van Staa we will also show the transit theme massively and offensively in the future and call for a solution for the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5270	The next item is the report by Mr Reheis. Speech time: Five minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5288	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! When I heard my colleague Gahr talk like that, I thought that reflected exactly what is being played in Tyrol at the moment: beautiful words before elections, but otherwise only loud air, empty words! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I brought an example here, ladies and gentlemen: At the end of August, the Transit Forum Austria, not an unknown forum, addressed ten questions to all the Tyrolean parties and asked them to issue them until the 10. To answer ten questions relating to transit policy, about exhaust gases, about health hazards. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen: Three parties of the Tyrolean Landtag answered – but these ten questions remained unanswered by the Tyrolean ÖVP! This is your dilemma: They have no answers to questions relating to transport. You have no answers to the real Tyrolean problems! This is the policy of the ÖVP! However, you from the Freedom Party, Mr Wittauer, have this at the federal level, namely in the ÖVP/FPÖ government. I really take it from the Federal Minister that he is making a great effort to take transit solutions seriously, but nevertheless: There's nothing going on, he's already got his brakes in the government. There's...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5324	Mr Wittauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Would you please limit your calls!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5339	Because today the much-quoted train has been built again: Who, please, make sure that the track is broken down and that nothing goes on? – Kukacka and the ÖVP! But you're part of the liberals. This is your dilemma, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the Transit Forum: Do you know what the transit forum has written about these ten questions? – Again: The Socialists have answered, the Greens have answered, the Free Democrats have also answered – but the ÖVP has no answers, and that is the worst! – The Transit Forum concludes: The Tyrolean People's Party does not give any answers, it is silent. – Make yourself your opinion on this behavior! There is nothing to add to this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because of this behaviour, of course, the Federal Government is also more than sumptuous: Three transport ministers in front of Gorbach have brought nothing further, they have prevented them from bringing nothing and zero forward, and now we are facing the dilemma that we have no solution, no transit agreement, only the dilemma of transit traffic, the instincts on the road, and that is a situation that has rightly made this current hour necessary. I would like to thank the fact that we have had the opportunity to speak on this issue again today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Head of State van Staa, ladies and gentlemen, always speaks of Tyrolean positions, of holding the ecopoints rule and the 108-percent clause – listen carefully! – he insists on the decisions of the Tyrolean Landtag, i.e. on compliance with the truck's upper limit, yes, he even calls on his party colleague bowl to be more courageous and enforceable. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wittauer]] He announces – once again a quote from the head of state van Staa – to give up his previous public restraint to Chancellor Schüssel. – Snack’n, ladies and gentlemen! He is self-evident – especially in relation to this government Schüsel and, above all, to the entire federal government in terms of transport policy. However, Van Staa has taken over social democratic messages, and we could agree with him, but these are only strong words, ladies and gentlemen. It is media-active, because zero is being implemented here in the House, and its black Tyrolean men and women agree with these horrors of the Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen! The only alternative to this is the Tyrolean SPÖ, the Tyrolean Social Democrats, because it is the only Social Democratic Hannes Gschwentner, the state capital, who has taken a stand for self-help and has consistently and rigorously used for the Tyrolean population, has enforced a ban on truck night driving and a sectoral ban on driving. [[Abg. Wittauer: Those who have done nothing! Nothing!]] [[Abg. Wattaul: He didn't do anything!]] However, the ball is still with the EU, but I think the EU will also stand out for people and against the free movement of goods. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: This is stupid!]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the Tyrolean Social Democracy, you are in better hands than with the liberals who have no opinion, or with the ÖVP who has zero answers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5445	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. The 5 minutes apply to him as well. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5465	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! At Colleague Reheis it is noted that the hectic election campaign has broken out. However, I am still very glad that this topic of transit is discussed again here in the House, it cannot be dealt with often enough. Transit affects all of us Austrians. However, I would like to make a few more points, namely the speech by Mrs Moser of the Greens concerning: It's almost humorous when you come out here with a Job Message and say: I know something. The Federal Minister Gorbach has built streets as the Council of State in Vorarlberg! Mrs Moser! Mr. Landesrat Gorbach was a district councillor in Vorarlberg, and there it is in the nature of the matter of taking care of the road issues. But I should like to say one thing in this context: He has therefore made himself popular in Vorarlberg and has therefore had this election success because he was very sensitive in dealing with road construction. [[Abg. Mandak: Planning roads through nature reserves...!]] It is due to him that many bypasses have come, and it is due to him that there has been a discharge and that many Vorarlbergers have thereby been relieved from traffic. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The transit problem, ladies and gentlemen, and here, of course, in the current case of the Alpine transit, is a very important area, which I would like to bring to you by means of figures. On the Brenner the proportion of transit traffic is 90 percent, and it is precisely the geographical but also the topographic position, namely these mountain valleys, which make up this unbearable situation for the people living there; above all, it should also have our solidarity. An example: The noise pollution of 71 decibels in truck freight traffic leads to 51 decibels still being measured at 1.1 km distance and at a height difference of 300 meters. And this makes the difference, which is the problem of the topographic situation – and above all the burden on the population living there. Another study shows that only one third of that NOx concentration can be observed in mountain valleys at the same scale of traffic with the same pollutant emission in the flatland. Or vice versa: In mountain valleys, pollutant emissions and pollution are three times as high as in the flatlands. This is the problem at the crossroads of the Alps, at the Alpine transit. And here, ladies and gentlemen, it is reasonable for all four parties to speak one language in Brussels. Another thing: You have to clean up with a rumor. We Austrians have a legal right to a regulation. We must not act here as a bitter in Brussels, but we have a right, a right to a satisfactory transit system. In the 1995 Accession Treaty, with which Austria joined the European Union, two things were primarily guaranteed to us by the European Commission: firstly, a permanent reduction in emissions by 60 percent – you know, Mrs Lichtenbergerer – and secondly, that when the Treaty expires with 31. This year, European framework conditions will be in force, ensuring a sustainable transport policy for Europe as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Both have not occurred. The European Union is sparse in both cases. We, ladies and gentlemen, have done our homework here in Austria: €800 million for combined transport, €8.3 billion for the expansion of rail infrastructure, €4 billion in the years 2000 to 2002. Austria has done its homework. Just as the European Union – and unfortunately we know God enough – likes to deal with and deal with the small states, so does it with Austria. Our Federal Minister – and this is undisputed, I have heard of the opposition thanks to God – fights like a lion for our concerns. [[Abg. Nürnberger: But a tame lion!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You have to watch out for a lion like that! You should think more about people!]] And we are also confident that these are our concerns, which we should all share here – not only the concerns of the Tyroleans, but the concerns of all Austrians – that this huge deaf David in Brussels will finally be heard. And we are very confident that the Federal Minister will be successful. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5535	Last word to add: Mr Grünewald. 5 minutes speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5553	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! A few corrections to the previous speakers. It was criticized that Greens had voted against Austria's interests in Brussels. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's right!]] True is rather: Greens voted against was a solution that would have brought more traffic, which you have kept silent. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If now ÖVP and FPÖ are trying to put feathers on the hat, as far as the Brenner Base Tunnel is concerned, you might almost think you could see any weekend bowl, main, Gorbach, van Staa and Khol digging between Sterzing and Wörgl in their own hands with pickle and shovel. I haven't seen such things yet. But it's up to you. I ask you: Can hair get dangerous? Of course, you're going to say no to the green forest, but I'm going to explain to you why. Diesel particles have a size of 0.1 micrometres. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's why we have a sulphur-free diesel next year!]] This is about a thousandth of the diameter of a human hair. Due to this smallness, these particles can reach the final branches of the lung, partly even break through the blood vessel system and enter the bloodstream. This has resulted in a number of seizures of disease, starting from acute bronchitis in children – 20,000 cases for Austria the WHO calculates –, chronic bronchitis in older people over 35 years, where 40,000 cases are calculated, as demonstrated by the WHO in a study. The WHO also writes – thankfully quoted Gorbach – of 2,400 deaths per year in Austria, which are due to these fine dusts of the diesel soot and would therefore also be avoidable. When measures are taken, the number of bronchitis cases and asthma cases and allergies in children and adults can be rapidly reduced, but the number of deaths can only be reduced for many years because these particles are stored in the body and with the factor time their tumor-forming power unfolds. That means, here tick time bombs. A study by Switzerland in South Tyrol shows similar terrifying results, only there is a very delicate point here for Tyrol and Austria: The South Tyrol values of fine dusts and nitrogen oxides are clearly below those of Tyrol and also clearly below those of Graz. Although there is no campaign for election at the moment, such critical things can still be noticed: Graz is a European master in fine dust concentration and is in this respect close with the industrial city of Riga, and that may be called something. You may say now that's panic of opposition, panic of any NGOs, but I can bring you quotes that show you that very high-ranking institutions say the same thing. For example, a consultative body of the German Federal Government on environmental issues says that Dieselrust is the problem of the future of air pollution, the priority problem. Diesel contains thousands of times more soot particles than petrol, resulting in a thousand times higher cancer risk with its fine dusts compared to petrol. In Austria, every second of three newly registered cars is the same drive, and there is something you have to do. We drive ten times more diesel vehicles than in Switzerland! There's something you have to do! Minister Gorbach, Minister Gehrer, here research could do something to advance developments. But even if you were to halve diesel consumption, the tenfold risk still remains. This means that other measures are needed here. If we look forward to the fact that eight of the 11 measuring points in Tyrol are established at more than 35 days a year in areas that are harmful to health, then I think it will not be enough for an up-to-date hour to change something here. Minister Gorbach! They must proclaim a “current year, ” not tomorrow, but today, together with all the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5615	In the word, no one has been reported for this. This concludes the debate at this current hour. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5633	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 para. 1 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5909	The Green Group has raised objections to the agenda. The Greens request that the statements of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor be placed at the end of the agenda and that points 6 to 9 be dropped. I am not in favour of these objections. That is why the House has to decide on it. There is a debate on this. According to an agreement at the Presidential Conference, the ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ will each send a speaker with 5 minutes speaking time, the Greens a speaker with 5 minutes and another speaker with 4 minutes speaking time to the speaker's desk. This is what we are getting to this debate. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig is speaking. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e5943	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. It is now the first ordinary meeting of the National Council after the summer break. This has been well prepared in the Presidential. We have considered which agenda items will be put at the beginning of the agenda. That's in the President's office on 18 November. In September, detailed advice was given and so on decided. Since the government has received few decision-making documents, one can assume that one has no longer produced decision-making papers, which is why the second day is abandoned. There has been a great consensus that an important item on the agenda, which concerns 85 000 young people, will be put at the top of this agenda and discussed in detail. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My wish was also that the debate on this proposal, which concerns so many young people, would be passed on by the ORF against the background of the entire generation discussion that we now had. So, what happened? Yesterday, quite surprisingly, at lunchtime in the green club, the announcement comes out that both the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor have spontaneously decided to make a statement in Parliament on the priorities for autumn work. – We had that before the summer break in July. You remember, there were three days of plenary session, it has been very difficult to bring the Minister of Finance to Parliament, due to his dense schedule – on the third day it was finally possible. And then again: The Federal Chancellor, he would like to make a statement on the economic situation of the nation, which was essentially no more up-to-date than the report published half a year earlier by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time, the ORF's request to be able to pass this debate on. We then criticised this in great detail, and there was the agreement in the Presidency – I would like to quote this – that “the President” of the National Council “will point out to the Chancellor” that “so short-term declarations should remain the exception”. – In the meantime, it will be the rule. It's the second session where that happens. It is the rule and not the exception. I think there are three different explanations for this. The one is – I think it won't be –: ==References== September is the beginning of the autumn, and it is strikingly in the Federal Chancellor's mind: Now we are holding a debate in Parliament on our autumn priorities! – I don't think it will be. Therefore, a second explanation is very likely: In four days we have country elections in Upper Austria and in Tyrol. The situation of the Federal Government is not the best. [[Abg. Scheibner: Your current hour of course has nothing to do with the elections!]] I do not want to hide, I would like to discuss with the Federal Chancellor about the situation of the Federal Government, about its ability to act, about why a tax reform does not come about, why a family package does not come about, why a climate change package does not come about, but I and the entire Green Group, we do not accept that Parliament will become a backdrop, an extended press conference of the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Großruck: Then take advantage of the opportunity of discussion!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You can then discuss everything!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, the third declaration, which I believe is a more serious matter, is about political culture, about democracy policy culture: The sitting has been well prepared, we are working together in the presidential, there is much agreement on the organisation of parliamentary work and on proposals from each other. But what the Federal Chancellor is doing here is creating a claim, an all-power claim, which manifests itself not only to Parliament but also to its whole policy. It's an arrogance to say a few hours before: The whole Parliament is now at my disposal, and I'm just doing it! – This is an arrogance that takes place throughout the political...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6016	We do not use ‘arrogance’, Mrs Deputies!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6037	I don't think to say 183 people 24 hours before: We just do everything quite differently, because I want it that way!, that can't be described as arrogance. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can also say: If you prefer, Mr President, all-power claims. [[Abg. Nürnberger: The President is arrogant.]] This is a claim which is evident in many legislative documents: to go over the people concerned, not to engage in a dialogue, not to rely on consensus, but simply to do what you think. And that's arrogance of power!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6081	With the same speaking time of 5 minutes, Mr Magistrate comes. Molterer to the speaker's desk. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6099	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We're actually having a premiere today. So far, I have been accustomed to the opposition complaining of having too little discussion about the Federal Government's plans. Today, the opposition suddenly complains that the government is making a statement on the priorities of autumn work. – How would you like it, Mrs Glawischnig? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I say to you as a parliamentarian, I am glad that this federal government is making this statement today because it offers Parliament, all the groups of the House, the opportunity to make an assessment of the political priorities and political planning in this country for the autumn of this year. [[Abg. May. Worm: Really arrogance of power!]] That is what Parliament actually has to do, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs Glawischnig, you are rightly referring to the Rules of Procedure and to compliance with the Rules of Procedure. § 19 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure says – I quote it now –: ‘The members of the Federal Government and the State Secretarys may also take the floor on a repeated occasion in the debates of the National Council, its committees and their subcommittees....’. You can, as in § 19 para. 2 and, of course, make explanations. Mrs Glavischnig! Of course, these declarations can even be made within the framework of the agenda. The Federal Government has informed us in good time. I have 24 hours of preparation. And I assume that you, too, are able to bring political opinion to your club in 24 hours, Mrs Glawischnig. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is a matter of course, I can tell you, if you criticise the fact that this important debate is being held at the beginning of an agenda and call into question the urgency. Then I ask you: What to do You're here this afternoon? – They benefit from the Rules of Procedure and make a urgent request on an important issue, namely the future of education policy. And nothing else happens in the discussion on the declaration of the Federal Government's priorities. Again: As a parliamentarian, I say to you, I am glad that we have this opportunity because important decisions are being taken, for example, the question of European development, which will be decided in the coming weeks – I want to discuss it as a parliamentarian – or the question of enlargement of the European Union – I want to discuss it as a parliamentarian – and other important future issues. At the same time, they are requesting the suspension of two agenda items. So everyone knows what this is about: A agenda item deals with money laundering. And I think it is right for Parliament to adopt clean rules here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! And by the way, everyone is informed: There is not even a word on this item on the agenda. That means that no one really saves himself time if that's your argument. They ask for a second item on the agenda, namely on equity formation and its legal regime – a project, Mrs Glawischnig, which has been under negotiation for six years and has now been brought to a good conclusion. I think it would be worrying to say that you do not want to discuss and decide such important legal projects here. I want that. Let me conclude by saying: I am very much in favour of treating these statements as Agenda items 1 and 2 today, because this gives all political groups sufficient opportunity to discuss and comment on autumn work, and thus also gives a broad public the opportunity to discuss the important future projects in this country transparently. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6164	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Speaking time: 5 minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6182	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, what you have given here for the best, would also demand the term “arrogance”. I'm saying, it was superlative as you described it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Go, please! It's simple!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we are already talking about planning and priorities, I would think that we should know this planning before the start of the work. It is planned before start of work and not now. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Before the beginning of autumn work!]] Autumn work starts today, I know. But we also know that the government may be a bit nervous, because recently there was a press conference of the Deputy Chancellor and the Chancellor, there was no such agreement. Now we have to use television time in Parliament quickly to demonstrate unity in order to say what we are planning together. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what it looks like. That's your real goal. Mr Bundeskanzler, I have to tell you that you actually disregard the dignity of this House. They disturb the work just to present themselves. You are making this Parliament a playground for your self-representation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That you are not very concerned about parliamentary decisions is also shown by the Upper Austrian head of state, for there is a decision by the Landtag that the Voest must not be sold.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6239	Deputies! On the matter!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6255	The Upper Austrian head of state goes beyond that. He doesn't want to live up to this landday decision. Mr Bundeskanzler, I have another question to you. Today, they announce the priorities for autumn work. I have a secret paper from the Ministry of the Interior, where the security is already completely styled and checked, in which it is literally written: In the next few weeks, this paper cannot be published. – This is literally right there on the first side! [[Abg. Scheibner: We can discuss everything about this!]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That's what we're discussing!]] Will we hear this today? I'm excited about it. Do you know why we shouldn't hear it? – Because this paper says that seven district army commanders are detained in Upper Austria alone. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So we continue to lock up with us outside the rural area. The destruction of the structures continues. Federal Chancellor! I'm excited about what explanation you're going to make. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, that's it!]] I really keep it here with a poster that the ÖVP is currently sticking around in Upper Austria: “Because times don’t get easier,” it says. – This is an increase of voters, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! The times will therefore not be easier,...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6323	Deputies! We are talking about the place of the agenda to make a statement. You have already received a call on the matter. If You continue to discuss the matter yourself, receive the second call on the matter. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Mr Gaßner, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6347	Thank you, Mr President, for your instruction. The times will not be easier because this federal government, because the chancellor and the vice chancellor do not take this House seriously and here subtract their political show. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6377	Mr Scheibner has now come to the floor. You're talking for 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6396	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaßner has now given a very interesting presentation. In doing so, we have also seen how to: Within a speech of at least five minutes, a learning process can also be carried out. Mr Gaßner referred first of all to the fact that the wish of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor to make a statement here before the National Council would be a disdain for Parliament and would also disturb Parliament's work. Three minutes after this statement, he said that he was already anxious about what the Federal Chancellor would say about security et cetera. Yes, Mr Gaßner, we are also eager to do so, and I am glad that this will no longer disturb your work, nor will it be a disdain of Parliament. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We are all more interested in what the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor are going to say here. Mr Gaßner, you are not on the list of speakers for this debate. So I hope you will still be nominated so that you can do what we want to do as self-confident Members, namely discuss their autumn work with the Federal Government. At the beginning of this autumn work, we want to know what is happening to us. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We want to discuss this. We also want to criticize, if necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm surprised you don't want to see the opportunity to criticise the government, too. Only two findings can be drawn from this: First: You don't have your own ideas here. Secondly, The Federal Government works so well that you don't want to criticise and be able to. – Ladies and gentlemen! We can do something about this. We from the government parties have our own ideas. We would and will, if necessary, also make criticism. Unfortunately, we also replace the opposition in this House. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Glawischnig, if you do not call for the debate to be suspended – you know that this is not a scandal or arrogance, but that the Federal Government can make statements here according to its Rules of Procedure – but only want it to be put to the end of the agenda, then I must say that is also a bit strange. So they do not want the public to know what we are discussing here, but that this should happen sometime at midnight. So that's really not understandable. It is rather understandable that you know that if they had not made these requests, this debate could not have taken place here under the Rules of Procedure. I am not saying that this is an abuse, but that is the use of the Rules of Procedure. But then, on the other hand, don't say that the government or the government parties are using something here. The fact that Members of the Federal Republic of Germany – whether this is Upper Austria, Tyrol or other federal states that have elections – have their political right to represent the concerns of their federal state here, I hope you will not criticize it, because otherwise you would have to be very vehement to the topic of the current hour which your group has introduced here today. So it is very nice to discuss all of this here, but if you take yourself seriously, then you should be glad that at the beginning of a autumn work a federal government will bring in its topics – future topics – and that we MEPs have the opportunity to discuss it. I am already looking forward to discussing with the Federal Chancellor, with the Federal Government, when and to what extent we are implementing a tax reform, what the safety standards look like and what measures are being taken. [[Complaints with the liberals]] In order to improve these safety standards, we must take action to harmonise pension systems and involve Parliament here – not only when the decisions are taken. We would like to discuss this today – you as a retired opposition apparently not. You only want to discuss this at midnight, if at all. And it is also good that this is broadcast on TV, because then the population sees what it has to do with the government and what it has to do with the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6480	Before I give the floor to the last speaker, I very much welcome the President of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Riccardo Illy region in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Thank you very much, Mr President. The last speaker was: Mr Oellinger. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6507	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I could make it easy now and say that the state of this government is best shown by the fact that it was on the 22nd century. ==References====External links== September of autumn and autumn work begin. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But it is even worse, ladies and gentlemen. If I remember correctly, I heard yesterday, as a report in the ORF on the Council of Ministers, that the Federal Chancellor had ordered individual government members to do the homework for autumn work until the government clause or meeting of the Council of Ministers in October. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was the ÖVP clausur, please! That's a big difference!]] – ÖVP-Klausur, I am also right, so only the ÖVP ministers. [[Abg. Ellwall: They're messing up everything!]] So he suggested that the ÖVP ministers present their autumn tasks in October. Yeah, what do we know today? – Obviously nothing relevant, because the ministers are actually busy doing their homework first. I find it confusing, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, that you, as a representative of a government party, who should actually know what to do to the government, say: [[Abg. Scheibner: Here we are parliamentarians, Mr. Cot! That's where we want to discuss!]] I'm so glad to know what the government is up to. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] – That’s baffling, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner! I think it is a little sad, too, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, that you have not been able to depress the accusation made by Mr Glavisch, but have simply confirmed: the accusation of arrogance. If you stand down, Mr. Klubobmann, and say, What about that opposition? It obviously does not want to discuss at all!, then you know very well that in the last few months – and there would have been good reasons to deal with Parliament in detail, whether this was the tax reform or whether it was the Voest privatisation, whether it was the pension reform – we have called for sufficient debate and public debate. It was you, ladies and gentlemen of the government who refused this debate. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] It was the opposition parties, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, who had to bring this debate on special sessions to the House. And it would be good for the government to explain itself in its own ranks in the face of chaos. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer! Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner! Parliament is not the extended working bank of the Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And the President of Parliament is not the repair service for the Federal Chancellor. Even if the ORF were to be dealt with, we would like that to happen to an extent and in extent, to create the same rights and equal opportunities for all, but not at the push of a button and on the order given in the Federal Chancellery. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you can already transfer your special sessions!]] That's what it looks like. We have already come so far in this Republic that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, with a push of a button on the President of Parliament – who has said something very different a few weeks ago, as far as the statements of the Federal Government are concerned, and together with the President-in-Office, has also represented them – creates different conditions here. Let yourself be said: We insist that Parliament takes itself seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6621	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote. I would ask those Members who want to take account of the two objections, that is, those who want to go back to points 1 and 2 and drop points 6 and 9 in order to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. It therefore remains with the agenda for today's sitting. Some business orders and decisions: Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6655	I inform you that the Green Club according to § 74a para. 2 before the entry into the agenda, the Rules of Procedure asked for urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 211/A (E) tabled at the same time by Dr Eva Glawischnig, colleagues on education offensive rather than the flat-rate diffamation of young people. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 722/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6679	I would also like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question 802/J by Dr Rasinger, colleagues on care home scandal in Lainz and other institutions of the city of Vienna by the Federal Minister for Health and Women. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following the urgent procedure. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6702	In addition, in accordance with § 33 para., MEPs have Dr. Josef Cap, colleagues. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an Examining Committee with the following subject-matter: Information on the conduct of the Federal Minister of Finance with regard to the implementation of the ÖIAG Act and all other related laws since 4.2.2000, in particular sales preparations and sales implementation for the federal shares of voestalpine-AG, as well as compliance with the Employment Act 1998 and the Contract stencil regulation relating to the appointment and appointment of Supervisory Boards and Boards of Austrian Industry-Holding-AG. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this matter. We shall call upon them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6727	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 and 2 and 6 to 8 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed in this way. Now we can go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6751	The Presidential Conference looked forward to a session which was marked by a day-blocking period of 9 ‘Vienna hours’. Speech times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, Free 108 and Green 117 minutes. A speech time agreement was also reached for the debates by 1 p.m.: for the declaration by the Federal Chancellor 20 minutes, by Mr Vice-Chancellor 20 minutes, then one speech per group of 14 minutes, then one speech per group with 8 minutes, and the remaining speech time will then be distributed in a fair manner by the President-in-Office of the Council after consultation with the members of the club, so that everyone can still speak. Actual corrections are only called after 1 p.m. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who join this proposal to express their approval by a sign. – That is unanimous. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Chancellor in accordance with Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on “The Priorities of the Federal Government for Autumn 2003” 2. Point Declaration by the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on “The Priorities of the Federal Government for Autumn 2003”
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6799	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. I give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to make his statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e6821	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to point out that at the beginning of the autumn work, I am referring to ‘parliament’ – ‘speaking’, ‘speaking together’ – and I think it is quite reasonable to talk to each other about the issues that are important on the agenda, whether it be from the European side – MP Voggenhuber, Green MEPs in the European Parliament – that there should be a statement from the Federal Government – whether it be from the national side. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But not just one!]] I am of course willing to address these issues as part of my statement. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I mean, a 20-minute speech has relatively little to do with omnipotence. I will also try very hard not to address the country elections which have their own legal personality anyway and, as I think, not to run so badly for the national leaders. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You will not miss the fact that many European countries are facing similar problems; they are all working on similar reform projects. Whether the Czechs, the Hungarians, the Germans, the Italians, the French or now the Dutch, who have presented a 14 billion € comprehensive budget rehabilitation project, are all working on the same topics: What about demographic development? What are the consequences of an ageing society in areas such as budget, health system, pension provision? Such discussions exist throughout Europe, not only in Austria, there is only one difference: The others are discussing while we have already implemented the reforms after a very busy spring session – for which I sincerely thank the House. That is the crucial difference, and that is also good! Allow me to show by a small example compared to Germany how fast it can be that a show country slips. The Germans were even much better in 1999 and in 2000 than in the budget data. You've had almost 50 percent better budget data than we have. In five years' reign Schröder has always been tried to push out the necessary structural reforms, rather cautiously dealing with them. The result is shown today: Germany is in the final place of all European countries, it will have a budget deficit of more than 4 percent this year; France, by the way, is the same. At the same time, this also results in a decline in growth rates. The argument was always: If you buy a higher budget deficit, you'll hopefully get higher growth rates. – The success of both countries, Germany and Austria, shows that exactly the opposite has occurred! We tried massively in 2000 to tackle our budget problems. Finance Minister Grasser and State Secretary Finz made a budget deficit in 2001 and 2002, while at the same time achieving 50 percent faster growth than the Federal Republic of Germany. And this comparison makes sure! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The same is true of exports. Austria has grown by one-fifth faster in these four years in terms of exports than Germany. We are 20 percent better per year on average. Today, with our export quota, we are ahead of the Germans by 5 percentage points. In these four years, we have tried to prove, through the necessary structural reforms, that in the end, in a difficult situation – a hundred percent right – we should not be denied this – we are better off than without these reforms. This is also the teaching: If the people realize that there is an urgent need for structural reforms, then they should be informed and discussed openly, but not only should they be discussed, but they should also be implemented. That is what we have done, and I think Austria has finally done well, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What topics will be the focus in autumn? Firstly, we will have at European level a whole series of very, very important decisions and discussions. Herbert Haupt and I are acting together as a team, and we have also shared the work and the topics today. That is to say, in my statement next to the European agenda, I focus on the question of jobs, economic recovery, training and education and the preservation of high security in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! The European theme bouquet will be extremely intense this autumn and in the coming spring. We first prepared the enlargement of the European Union in 30 weeks – well, but very important to us that we... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Well prepared, this also shows the results of the referendums, which shows the high acceptance of enlargement throughout Europe today. Think back! It wasn't always like that. It is a common success that we, as I mean, can also stand together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Our second major issue is the European Constitution. That is what I am now saying openly: The Convention has produced an excellent discussion result. They were all in the process, the MEPs, representatives of the national parliaments, personal representatives of the Heads of Government, and there was a draft discussion, which did not contain any options on important issues, although this would actually be urgent in the mandate, but a complete text for a new European Constitution. I expressly welcome the fact that we are bindingly integrating the Charter of Fundamental Rights into this text, that we call a constitution that – I think Europe needs such a constitution – I welcome the fact that we give the European Union a legal personality. If sometime, in ten, 20 years' time, Europe will speak with a voice in the financial institutions of the world or also in the UN Security Council, this will have to do with the establishment of such a common legal personality. – An absolutely positive, impressive breakthrough! In addition, the whole question of clarity, the simplification of procedures, more civil rights, also direct democracy, which is offered, the new Foreign Minister of the European Union and some issues that – and I take the liberty to invite you to go here – we need to talk about. Let us consider, for example, the very complex part III of this Convention draft. This part has never been discussed at all in the Convention's plenary session, and I would like to refer to a point that, as I believe, is of far-reaching interest to everyone, namely to the famous provisions of existence. That sounds complicated. It is about water supply, waste disposal, and various services that we provide to communities in a first-class way. Now, suddenly, there is an Article III-6, which for the first time gives the Union the right to define the principles and conditions of how these services of general economic interest – these are precisely these generalised supply models – are handled. We will examine this very carefully, ladies and gentlemen. I mean, it must be a common interest not simply to turn down here and say: So that we do not have to discuss any more at the Intergovernmental Conference, we accept the text as it is. – This needs to be carefully examined so that our priorities for keeping access to our water are not put at risk the high level of service of our communities in health care, where waste disposal is preserved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is also, of course, in various other areas, such as judicial cooperation. I will insist on unanimity here. We are concerned whether, instead of a European prosecutor, it has failed to expand Eurojust – this is a joint group. These are honest questions which not only ask Austria, but also many Member States, including many parliamentarians in the Convention. And we'll talk about these questions. Similarly, on institutional issues, because, honestly, I do not know whether we should really leave the rotating Presidency so easily. What is the balance between the institutions in particular? It seems particularly important to me to insist that every country is equal in every institution with its seat and voice. I very much hope that you will work with me in this sense. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So there's plenty of discussion. We will be discussing this in the main committee and, of course, here in plenary. The next issue is the economic situation. – There are signs of a certain recovery – not so much in the euro zone, but at least with us; in the first quarter, 0.3 percent, in the second quarter, according to the latest report 0.9 percent – but I think it is still a very weakly offset upturn; in America and Japan, it shows itself more clearly. In my opinion, it is now very important not to question the Stability Pact at European level, but to complement it with growth elements, with a view to joint initiatives that ultimately all of us do well. Ladies and gentlemen! We have tied up two economic packages in Austria, which, demonstrated by the Economic Research Institute, have brought us a half to a three-quarters percent additional economic growth. That is, we have achieved exactly what we have done. Herbert Haupt and I fully agree that we now have to review, evaluate and consider what we are going to extend to what we can still improve. Of course, this is also a topic for the 1. January 2004 because then the first stage of the tax reform is already beginning to reach the huge amount of € 1 billion. Our opinions on this matter do not disperse at all. On the contrary! It is common objective that we now do everything we can to stimulate economic growth, growth and jobs in the context of our financial stability. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, we have done something together in the export offensive. Bartenstein and Grasser will work out very concrete plans. We have used €50 million to achieve the following in the coming years: a doubling of export companies in Austria by 2007, a 40 percent export rate in four years, we want to break the magic sound wall from €100 billion to 2007, and of course we also want to try to create a climate for this external economic component. This emphasis in economic policy also includes the continuation of the reasonable privatisation strategy. The Bayern, for example, have done the same; they have privatized €4 billion in the last ten years. Austria, in the size roughly comparable to Bavaria – we are a little smaller – has also implemented this in recent years. Mr Oellinger, you have addressed the Voest. I tell you – what I have already said here: At the end of this privatisation, the Voest will be a majority Austrian company. – Said and fulfilled! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I said: At the end of this privatisation, with the employees, an upper Austrian core will be at least 25 percent. – Said and fulfilled, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I said we got a clear impulse for the small shareholders. – And so was it. We have invited thousands of employees at very favourable conditions to draw shares, and we have succeeded. Today we have 25,000 private shareholders, to whom the Voest belongs, and politics is outside. And that, friends, is in itself the best thing that can happen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why you are burying the idea of an investigation committee in which this successful company is, in fact, publicly pulled through the cocoa for months! Get rid of this idea! The Voest does not deserve to be continuously included in the party political system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It will be very important to us – Bartenstein and Grasser – that we not only keep our place one with regard to youth employment, but also improve in the sense that every youth really has either a teaching post or a schoolground or a training course. We will extend all the special programmes already under way. We have spent a lot of money, we will continue to modernise the teaching professions. And, of course, we will also try in the labour market in social dialogues to enforce modernisation in such a way that we can claim our first-class position. Comparison with Germany: In Germany, on average, every unemployed person has to wait 33 weeks until he gets a job. In Austria, in less than half the time, on average in 15 weeks, every unemployed person is taught. This situation needs to be further improved, we will be pressing for it, but we are already proud of that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have undertaken to make a major effort in the field of education, training and research, in so far as we objectively provide performance standards for the 10- and 14-year-olds for all children. The parents should know exactly what a 10-year-old needs to know, what a 14-year-old can do, so that you can control it objectively. Teachers will certainly be involved here, because the trend is all over the world towards this standardisation and to these similarities. We want to significantly improve the afternoon care, but while preserving the freedom of choice for the parents and the children. I don't want a single model across the heads of the parents and the families. Modern education policy means diversity, colorfulness and the creation of options that individuals need. That of course we need more afternoon care – today's status: 45 000 children – it's clear. Over the next two years, Liesl Gehrer will offer 20 percent more service places alone by the federal government. I am already inviting the municipalities and countries to take this path. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will increase the funds for technical colleges; there will be € 17 million more available. The universities receive another € 15 million for the conversion phase. For research and development, important things are being used. The Wifo confirms an increase of 7 to 8 percent per year, and from 2004 onwards we will provide 600 million for special programmes and will provide a very important impetus through the note bank foundation. A very concrete example: On Thursday, that is tomorrow, the Institute of Quantum Optics will be opened in Innsbruck, which will receive €10 million from this research offensive and can thus demonstrate its quality and research output worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen! The next major issue, of course, is safety, because we do not mind: Through the expansion, through the organized crime, there are also new threat images. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Also by Straster! Also through the Minister of the Interior!]] It is therefore very important that the combination of services, the new challenges to safety professionals, adapt the structures to the new age. The old structures no longer fit, they are hindering, they need to be adapted. We need a new concept that provides the people with security from a single source and provides the police and the gendarmen with a clear perspective for their work. This also means less bureaucracy, savings in administration, but more contact with the local population, on the street and in the focal points where it really affects people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, the employees of this new security device, the 04 team, get their hands on the most modern techniques. Sweden was unable to do a DNA investigation – in Austria we have the most modern facilities of this kind. I am very proud that Ernst Strasser, with his security device, has reached a standard that has made us one of the safest countries in the world, in addition to the creation of the Federal Criminal Office and many internal reforms. We will certainly maintain this status. Mr former Minister of the Interior, you too have done a good job, I say so at this point. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Einm]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that these issues which I have addressed will also be of your heart. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The reason is in our heart!]] It is important to me to put the common on the part of the parting and yet to do the necessary and the right. We from the Federal Government are willing to work with you not only on European issues but also on all other issues; Social and opposition talks with us are in progress, and I very much hope that this will also lead to results. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I promise the Austrians that we will keep it the way we did before the summer. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] The reforms are taking place – in the interests of the citizens, in the interests of businesses, jobs and people here in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e7009	Ladies and gentlemen! A 20-minute speaking time has also been envisaged for Mr Vice-Chancellor's statement. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e7027	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to continue where Mr Bundeskanzler began and then finally ended his speech after 20 minutes. [[Abg. Reheis: This is your fate!]] First: The development in the European Union will also mean, for us in Austria in the next few years, the implementation of those efforts we all dream of and speak of, namely the creation of a Europe of citizens and not one of the elites against the citizens. It will therefore be important to reconcile the results of the Europe Convention and the Austrian Convention in such a way that citizens in the new Europe will find a home and feel that they have their own rights, and not a few will decide on the interests of citizens in Europe. This will be the decisive thing for the next days, weeks and months. And that we too want to find Austrians – and not only the great countries of Europe – with voting rights as an equal partner in Europe, is undisputed for us in the Federal Government and hopefully also in the Austrian Parliament in the interest of the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen of the National Council, that it is important for us together to represent the interests of Austria, as we did in the Convention, in the coming weeks and months – and not to transport the hack of day-to-day discussions at European level and thus weaken Austria and give the others the chance to see our position in Europe not from Austrian, but from the point of view of our neighbours. We have achieved in advance that we have created very many framework conditions for the European process. I am a Minister of Social Affairs. ==References====External links== At that time two years of transition, and I was able to achieve that we have separate design space for important industries up to seven years. Many in the Chamber of Workers and in the union could not imagine that at that time. I am therefore grateful that we have also taken this path together with the ILO and our representatives there. I am also very pleased that we have taken a common path with the health summit in the last few days for the further development of the Austrian health system and with a view to further planning the Federal Government for this autumn in order to maintain the Austrian health system at a high level in the future and to achieve access to modern medical treatment methods for all shifts. I believe that the Federal Government has proved here that it is ready for dialogue and is also leading this dialogue. I am also very pleased that the social partners have taken the path of dialogue and not, as in the spring of this year, the road to the road, because this is the only way in which development in Austria can take place on a common basis in the interests of all citizens. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As a Social Minister, however, I am very concerned that we have a care scandal again 14 years after the Lainz scandal in Vienna at the expense of the elderly people in that country. I am concerned that I have to read in the daily newspapers that two and a half years ago, when Rieder was still responsible for the current financial city council, the first complaints to the city administration of Vienna have been made and only shifts have taken place there and nothing else has happened. [[Abg. May. Worm:... the men's society!]] I am very pleased that I was still able to achieve the harmonisation of the training of the care professions in my former capacity as Minister of Health and Social Affairs in December of last year at official level. And I am very pleased that in June of this year, at the social conference of all the federal states, it succeeded in reaching a consensus on an Article-15a agreement for a unified training of all care professions. We will need these care professions so that we will no longer have care shortages in the future, as they are currently found in Vienna. [[Abg. May. Worm: The women...!]] A 15-year dispute between the federal states could finally be settled, and in autumn of this year we will implement these Article 15a agreements on joint care training in Austria in the interests of the elderly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In the past, we have presented drafts for home contracts and home laws together with Federal Minister Böhmdorfer. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Future, Mr. Vice chancellor!]] There are only two federal states that have not taken up this initiative by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. Significantly, these are the state of Vienna and the federal state of Tyrol. Therefore, after we have completed the procedure before the Constitutional Court in late June with Vorarlberg, we will now adopt a federal home law and, subsequently, a federal home residence law. These are important framework laws for Austrian legislation, important framework laws for caregivers in the field of home care in Austria, important framework laws in the future, so that we can do everything from the legal side to ensure security in this area at last with regard to the rights of older people who need to go to home care, because they do not have family members or any family members who are able to implement care. In this way, this Federal Government is doing a long-term process in the interests of older people in the autumn of this year, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In contrast to other public statements, this Federal Government has increased the social rate. We have specifically increased the social rate in those areas where we believe that this is particularly important for maintaining and fulfilling the generation agreement. We have therefore extended the family promotions to the twin births. We have preferred women with work and family benefits as a group in the field of pension reform. We have already made better provision for those who are unable to address this, in the area of disability pension, in the adopted pension reform model, and from 1. January 2004 will finally be part of the accident pension tax again in the past, and this is quite so, because this will make 1.6 billion schilling stay in the wallets of disabled people in Austria again. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Reheis: That's a remorse!]] [[Abg. Reheis: such an eminence!]] And this is good that this can be achieved again with 1.1.2004 as a positive for disabled people. [[Abg. Reheis: This is cynical and despicable!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Why did you do this nonsense?]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Why did you do this nonsense, Mr. Vice-Chancellor? Why did you introduce this nonsense?]] In the next few days, I will send the guidelines that provide €10 million for disabled people so that they can spend up to 14 days of vacation per year and at that time also assume that their needy relatives will receive high-quality care. I can remind you that in the debate on the budget accompanying law, the opposition did not want these €10 million. I was pleased that 14 days ago, the director of the Caritas Landau on television, who spoke about these my ideas, also formulated them as demands from outside the federal government in the care sector, because as someone who knows from the work of the Caritas how caring relatives do, he can only consider it positive that the Federal Government here after decades is finally ready to meet the caring family accordingly. I think this is good, and I ask you to work positively on the design of these frameworks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If I can still lose a word on the health system, I must also draw the attention of the Upper Austrian Members to the fact that, contrary to what is being presented today in publications by Erich Haider in the public, there is no single restraint in the Austrian health system at this time, which is not carried by social democracy. I am therefore very pleased that the future development of the health system has been made by all agreed that in the future there will no longer be in populist statements at the expense of older people something different than in this Republic, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Allow me also to go into the area of Mr Gorbach: In 1995, at the beginning of the term of office of the Social Democratic Government under the German Chancellor's climate, research in Austria had a share of 1.57 percent of GDP. Now, at the beginning of the term of office of this Federal Government, we had a share of 1.96 percent, and we will have reached 2.5 percent at the end of this legislative period. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] I believe that it is important that research in this country is not only presented in the speeches in Parliament as an important basis for the economic development of this country, but that, at last, the financial resources will also bring us at least to the middle level of the European States and with the aim of reaching 3 percent in 2010, in the future, also to the top of the European states. After all, research and development are in the end – in which we all agree – precisely those areas that best ensure the economic location of Austria in the interests of employees and in the interests of businesses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Ladies and gentlemen in Parliament! I should like to invite you to make a significant contribution to this positive development in the research and technology sector of Mr Gorbach. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] By the way, since the debate on the Austrian Federal Railways has also been held in recent days, I can already say that on the one hand, Mr Gorbach is trying to find a common solution for the future with the employees of the Austrian Federal Railways and with the trade union, and that on the second hand, the Wifo study, which the Federal Chancellor has already quoted, has reached a significant percentage of economic growth and thus employment in the construction and construction sector over the last one and a half years, in the economic package II, Mr Hubert Gorbach confirms that he has achieved a significant share of economic growth by 0.7 percent in the construction and construction sector. Dear Hubert, warm congratulation! Keep going! The concepts you have will be financially secured over the next few years, so that we can also be sure that in Austria by 2010 in the area of infrastructure, €12 billion will be installed – an economic performance and an infrastructure that we urgently need in Austria! [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Parent]] I just want to express it: The complaints of the drivers that there is a construction site behind every corner are evidence that the infrastructure is finally invested in Austria – and not, as in the past, only spoken of by the infrastructure and nothing is invested, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But also believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that in the future in the rule of law of Austria, it cannot continue so much that on the one hand, in the external districts of Austria, the old people complain that they do not see security guaranteed, while on the other hand, we must find that the persecution of offenders takes longer and longer. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You're right! You're right! It can't go on like this!]] I therefore believe – and I refer to the following figures from the main association of the Austrian social security funds – that it is not reasonable for people in this country to know that, on the one hand, pension insurance institutions need an average of 2.3 to 2.4 months for the completion of care applications and applications for invalidity pensions, while the competent social courts need 11 months to deal with these problems. We also expect the judiciary in this country to meet the rule of law and legal certainty at more pace in this country. This is a call for the security equipment in Austria, for the security of the people in Austria and for the rule of law in Austria to be a cheap demand for the Austrian population to a professional group – and not the opposite, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Please let the dishes work!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Leave the dishes alone! They're doing good work!]] We will also have to discuss the new asylum law here in Parliament in the autumn of this year. Given some examples that show that in the Austrian population, but also on the newsletter pages of many daily newspapers, Convention refugees are often thrown into a pot with those who use the Austrian asylum law, I believe that at last there is a clear line to go through here: Those who are in the protection of the Convention must ensure rapid and rapid asylum and integration in Austria. [[Abg. May. Worm: Say that...,... commit a non-consistency after another!]] But for everyone else, an asylum law is finally implemented in Austria, which does not allow criminals to be in the first, second and third asylum proceedings for six or seven years in Austria, to stay here in Austria and to deteriorate the security situation in Austria. [[Abg. May. Prammer: What does one have to do with the other?]] I therefore also expect to take into account the interests of the Austrians in the asylum debate of the House with regard to security in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For me, as a minister, who is also responsible for youth, there is nothing to be pleased with when we look at the drug scene in Austria. Drug use, drug abuse in this country is shocking. We are therefore going to do everything by the Federal Government, together with my State Secretary of Sport, but also with the school authorities, to involve young people in meaningful programmes for sport, social and cultural activity in order to lead them away from the street and away from drug use into a secure future. Every youth who has slipped into the drug scene is a youth too much! That is why I also expect you, ladies and gentlemen in Parliament, to have a significant and rapid influence on the plans of the Federal Government in this area by the Austrian National Council or on the part of the Austrian Parliament, so that the drug scene in Austria does not increase, but is becoming smaller and smaller and young people finally have proper protection from drug dealers. This is a demand that we have to raise for the next generation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will not, however, be able to explain to the people why some of the measures of this federal government have been taken. [[Abg. Oellinger: That would be high time!]] The Federal Chancellor has referred to the issue of Voest; I would also like to address it. I have been praised here in Parliament by President Benya in 1986. Between 1986 and 1995, the national industry in Austria has received 126 billion schilling in tax expenses and lost 56,000 jobs. It is therefore wrong to give the impression that the nationalized industry guarantees every job. [[Abg. Dr. stupidly nodding.]] I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we, as the Federal Government of Germany, have inherited €10 billion of debt from this time, in the interest of taxpayers and in the interest of sustainable financial policy, must also be interested in gradually putting these €10 billion in the year 2000 on zero; for only then can the next generation have their tax returns free and invest in infrastructure, in research, in education, in the social state and in the health state of Austria if it no longer has to pay off the debts of the past. – An important point for me! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The autumn work of Parliament will also allow me to move forward with the harmonisation of pensions. The social partners with their experts and the ministries with their experts have now developed the proposals for a future system of a contribution and performance-oriented account, and they have also developed ideas about how and with what valorization can be designed in the future a harmonious Austrian pension system. I am very grateful to the main association of the Austrian social security companies and Dr. Probst, for the fact that he now represents and lists the developments in disharmonization that have taken place between 1995 and 2003, in the field of civil service law and in the field of service rights of the municipalities, in order to provide us with the basis for harmonisation. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to point out that the social partners have promised to present their ideas by the end of September, and I would remind them today. [[Abg. Oils: You promised us!]] We from the Federal Government are ready to implement the objectives we have set ourselves and to comply with our promises. We will pursue the harmonisation of pension systems with the emphasis we are accustomed to. I hope, no, I am actually sure that the social partners will also keep their promises to give us an appointment for the next political round as soon as possible, so that work on harmonising pension systems can continue. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. May. Prammer]] I can also tell you that the assessment of the heavy worker early retirement scheme is now under way in autumn. It is important to me that – and this is the first time in the Second Republic – workers in the field of construction and construction industries also come into a regulation acceptable to them and not only the employees in the Hackler regime are taken into account, but not the actual hackers of this Republic, namely the workers in the construction and construction sector. This is an important work, which is now under way in autumn. I can now inform you, in my capacity as a veterinarian, that we are planning to introduce the Animal Protection Act, which is now being completed in its concept, to the Austrian Parliament in December. This is intended to make the 15-year-old concern of a federal animal welfare law reality from 2004 onwards. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e7386	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. The clock is set to 14 minutes by common accord with the next four speakers. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e7404	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The expectation of the two declarations made here today was high. After yesterday a Council of Ministers took place and so in the short term these declarations were made, it was expected that today new, not necessarily sensational, but groundbreaking for the future of Austria will be presented by the Austrian Federal Government. As you can see, Members here in Parliament are quite disappointed because, apart from some pale announcements, this Federal Government has not presented any really new projects, and that is actually a pity for Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Did you not listen?]] If you were really so important, Mr Bundeskanzler, as you have emphasized here, the issue of opportunities for youth, you would have made a clear statement today about how the burning apprenticeship problem is solved in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: In Vienna!]] After thousands of apprentices were waiting for an apprenticeship, such an announcement would have been appropriate on your part! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: You should do this in Vienna!]] [[Abg. Grossruck: You should talk to Mr. Häupl!]] It would have been appropriate to say that you will fill the 1 000 open spaces in the teaching workshops in Austria. But it would also have been appropriate to say that you will take over the successful model of the Vorarlberger metal industry for the whole of Austria on the question of apprenticeship training and that you want to revive the model of the apprenticeship foundation. But we have missed all of this, ladies and gentlemen of the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: You must do that once in Vienna!]] As far as youth opportunities are concerned, we would have expected a clear answer from you today to the question of how you intend to solve the abuses at the Austrian universities. It is constantly complained by rectors, university professors and students that the teaching firm is no longer to be maintained. Not even the windows at the universities can be cleaned. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is not a good testimony to a modern country if such conditions exist at higher education institutions! These questions would have been answered! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I find the change of attitude within the ÖVP particularly interesting in the question – let us say it with restraint – of school forms all day long. He was best expressed by the Interior Minister Strasser, who said in the “Standard” that all day schools would lead to vandalizing young people scattered around the big cities. Mr Strasser's remark was on school forms all day. Now, a week before the country elections in Tyrol and Upper Austria, one can hear at once from the Federal Minister who never wanted to, that 10,000 seats are made available, and the Federal Chancellor adds that he invites the countries and communities to do so. But he has forgotten to say what he really invites them to do. Indeed, he invites them to finance this. If it goes to the Federal Government, there will continue to be no full-day schools in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor also raised the question of security. This is indeed a very important issue, and he is certainly right to point out that there are new challenges in the field of security that EU enlargement and organised crime face us with new challenges. But it is amazing that, under the responsibility of Minister of the Interior, Strasser, in recent years, in which the crime rate has increased – well-noticed: for this, he cannot do anything – but the Enlightenment rate has fallen. This means that safety in Austria is no longer organized as efficiently as possible, and this, of course, also has a clear reason. If, year after year, Party policy is made in the Ministry of the Interior, so-called reforms are used to “clean” a ministry that at the end of the day the officials are insecure and there is less and no more security, you must not be surprised, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The much stressed announcement that it will be saved in the administration, but there will be more police officers and gendarmen on the street, among the citizens, has nothing to do with reality either. This announcement we have heard from you for years, but the truth is: No more police can be found on the street! [[Abg. May. Worm: Less!]] That is why uncertainty is increasing in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Because you took Bavaria as an example yesterday, Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to say to you: Do what is done there in the security policy! There 1 400 new police officers and gendarmen are recruited, while in Austria the staff continue to be reduced. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's wrong!]] I can tell you: There will be no more security with fewer police and gendarmen! This is an absolute illusion, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: This is the untruth!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore not only challenging security policy in Austria because of external threats, but also challenging above all what is being done by Minister of the Interior Strasser. If he continues the process of reducing security with the fact that even in Upper Austria the district commissioners are still in a series of prisons in all other federal states, he will not be the Minister of the Interior of this time but the insecurity minister of our day, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Grossruck: There are no district commissioners!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! They have spoken of necessary and successful privatisations. To this end, I can tell you: If that was supposed to be successful, what happened at the voestalpine, then good night! When a daily headlines: “The VEST went away far too cheap,” and another daily entitled: “Most of the VOEST shares went cheaply abroad”, then, Federal Chancellor, I ask myself the question: Who has had anything of this total privatisation of the Voest? If you're worried about the call, I'll ask you again: What problem did voestalpine have at the beginning of 2003? [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: The past, the nationalized!]] I think only of this: a successful company, high profits, good management and motivated employees! But since you started the total privatisation course at the Voest, the Voest has come into public talk. The Voest has had no problems, you have just made this Voest a problem, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Because, in connection with privatisation, you want to make a comparison with Bavaria, Mr Bundeskanzler, I can say: A good comparison! I can remember that when we discussed your first statement of government here in the House, you mentioned privatisation projects and I made the following proposal: If you are already privatized, you should proceed after the Bavarian way! Indeed, all privatisation proceeds are entered into a so-called future fund, and this future fund is used to finance the participation and construction of new companies. There, privatization funds are used for investments in the future and not, as with you, for the purchase of interception hunters, which we do not need in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the end of his speech, the Federal Chancellor’s sharpest statement was: We will keep it as before the summer this autumn! The Austrians can indeed regard this as a dangerous threat, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Because at least in three Areas were marked by a massive break in the election promises this spring. I'm just mentioning three examples. First: Last autumn, the ÖVP said that there was no need to change the pension system, because there was the 2000 pension reform, which was a century reform! – What happened? This summer the biggest pension reduction reform ever took place. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Pension insurance reform!]] Second break of the election promise: You personally, Mr Bundeskanzler, said last autumn that no euro will be taken from the budget for the purchase of the interceptors, all of which will pay for an economic platform. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] The truth is: Every euro for the interceptors comes out of the budget, and to do so on pump and on aircraft that are not suitable for use, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The third break in the election promises was the following: A week before the election, you took part in a press conference with the Minister of Finance and said that there would be the biggest tax relief for all Austrians in 2004. All will have to pay by 1 000 € less taxes. [[Abg. May. Worm: The rich!]] – But what is reality? The Federal Government's tax policy has been continued, and there can be no tax reduction, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That's why I can only tell you one thing: If you continue your policy of spring, the constant break of election promises, then the Austrian population will not be able to find any confidence in this Austrian government! You have actually played the lead of confidence you had at the last election in the meantime to a hundred percent – through the permanent break of election promises made by you this spring, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's what you wish for!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I welcome the fact that there is an invitation from the Federal Government to cooperate, and wherever it was offered, such as on the issue of health reform or on the question of the Federal Government, we are willing to cooperate in joint solutions. Mr Vice-Kanzler, if you are talking about invitations to cooperation, you should also take note of what is already happening, because if you now, in 2003, announce that there will be a federal home law, I would like to say to you: There is a fully-fledged draft for a German Home Treaty Act prepared by experts, which the Social Democrats introduced here in the National Council in spring 2000. This draft was allocated to a subcommittee three years ago and has not yet been dealt with by the two government parties. If you invite us to cooperate and if your visit to Parliament should also have an operational meaning today, I would say, Mr Vice-Chancellor: In order to enrich your work this autumn, I would like to hand over to you our draft law as a sign of cooperation, and I hope that you will take care of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e7733	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. Same time of speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e7751	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, I read in an Austrian daily newspaper: We're ready! After this speech, I know what: You're ready to say no, and you're ready to refuse the future! I have not heard any more from this speech by Mr Gusenbauer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Listen!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, I have heard from the statement of Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor: Yes, we are ready for the future! We are prepared to deal with the problems that exist in this country too! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Wrong speech!]] We are ready to take people's concerns seriously! We are ready to work for the future of the country! – This willingness of the Federal Government finds our full support, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government, under the leadership of Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, can build on a solid basis – also build on a successful work of the last and the first 200 days of this legislative period. Consider, for example, the very successful budgetary and consolidation policies in public budgets! Ladies and gentlemen! Today in Austria we are able to say: We have reached a zero deficit in 2001 and in 2002 de facto, and we are structurally different from the large majority of European countries with this budgetary situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Germany, ladies and gentlemen, the Bundestag is discussing a budget deficit of almost 4 per cent, and in France a deficit of over 4 per cent is discussed. What is the answer of social democracy? At the last special meeting, or in the previous special session, it was proposed to open the locks and to increase indebtedness in Austria. I told you, Mr Gusenbauer, at the time, that you will encounter decisive resistance from us, for those who open the debt lock are at risk of the future of this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You argued with the question of employment development at the time, and now I give you the following answer: Employment trends in Germany are as follows: In 2002, there was an unemployment rate of 8.6 percent, for the year 2003, such a rate of 8.9 percent was forecast. That is, the debt and unemployment are rising there. This red-green policy is certainly not imitated by us. On the contrary: We are fighting for full employment and for the renovation of the budgets! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A second example: All in Austria know that it is necessary to secure pensions now because the facts require it. We need to look at these facts: People work shorter, they are longer in education and are also able to enjoy the well-deserved retirement longer. The political response to this can only be: There must be action – as the Federal Government has actually done with the pension reform. The SPÖ's political response, on the other hand, is: Then we might go to the Constitutional Court! – By the way: If you look at this action, you will no doubt notice that there is no criticism in it, it is exclusively about the question of the Rules of Procedure. Obviously you have nothing to criticize. [[Call the SPÖ:More than enough!]] The SPÖ's answer is: Then we will introduce a popular desire! By the way, your signatures have obviously been in the drawer for months – and only because now in Upper Austria there is an election campaign, Erich Haider, with the push-carrying 33 000 signatures in the Ministry of the Interior, and the Federal SPÖ is unhappy with that! That's what we could get from the media. And the SPÖ's answer is: We write – once again – a pensioner's letter! We know that. This time not signature Vranitzky, but Haider, Erich Haider, to be precise. And Haider writes in this letter the naked untruth. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] – Distance yourself from it! Stay with the truth! To admit that there is a half a percentage point of pension reduction, is the naked untruth, ladies and gentlemen! I expect you to stick to the truth in an election debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So you have no answers from SPÖ to the future question of the generation contract and its security. [[Abg. Oils: But you might be!]] [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] The subject of tax relief: We must set impulses so that we can actually use the potential economic recovery offensively. Yes, the Wifo confirms us: We are right with our economic packages I and II, and we are already working on an economic package III. – But what is the SPÖ doing? The SPÖ refuses the tax relief per 1. January 2004, which has already been decided here in the House. [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, reject tax relief for the smallest income recipients. Furthermore, you refuse a tax advantage on non-profit profits. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Incredible!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, also reject the fact that, as far as VAT is concerned, the year has only twelve months and not 13 months. That's the truth! They are in truth refusing discharges! That's your answer. [[Call the SPÖ:A fairy tale hour!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] On the topics of the labour market and the number of apprentices: Mr Gusenbauer, look You're looking at the numbers! In Upper Austria, a minus in unemployment development of 9 percent. 9 per cent less unemployed. – In Vienna, on the other hand, say and write plus 9 percent unemployed! [[Abg. Gaál: Because there is a stop at the Federal Offices...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am therefore saying: Look, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, at your own door, even as far as the apprentices are concerned! I know the statistics on the question of apprentices and I know where the problem lies. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] The problem is that of Vienna, Mrs Colleague, and you know it! Work professionally from the SPÖ in Vienna – and then we will have it statistically and in the matter better all over Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the subject of privatisation. Mr Gusenbauer, you criticise privatisation today, but just a few months ago you said that the state had lost nothing in production plants as owners. I think it is right that the state has lost nothing there, but Mr Gusenbauer, then you will remain consistent! I mean, even the Voest debate you've been holding has to be evaluated. Voest privatization is a success project, the Voest is Austrian, the Voest is a strong Austrian company; there is a strong Upper Austrian core in this company, the largest employee participation, with more than 10 percent given in a company of this size at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] By the way: The employee participation is an idea of the People's Party. You now reject this privatisation from the SPÖ. [[Calls by MEPs Gaál and Dr Wittmann:Falscher Zeit]] I would like to ask you already the question that Mr Felder has raised very correctly in an interview I believe. – You have said of the SPÖ, it is your course, it is these 32,5 € too low. Do you know what Felder says? – This low price loss after an increase of 50 percent could have been avoided if the discussion had not been conducted so aggressively, so politically and economically. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Exactly!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr. Gusenbauer: aggressive, political, non-economic – these are the words of Professor Felder. I appeal to those responsible in the SPÖ: On the question of privatisation, return to the path of reason, to a path that you had originally taken! I don't know who voted for you. But perhaps you are concerned about an ideology that is “not entirely foreign ” to you from the past, as Georg Wailand writes. And I quote Wailand: "If it were to be better than private companies, then the Soviet Union, the GDR and Cuba would have had to become new models in the economy." [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] My example is not that, but my example is the successful company Voest, which is now led by private owners into a good future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Security policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you say the security is one of the most important goods. - Yes, I agree. But then I ask you: Why do you reject the purchase of the interceptors, which are part of our safety concept, a security to which the people of Austria are entitled. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The catchers will still fall on your head!]] Why do you reject the military defense of the SPÖ? I believe that people have the right to security, of course also military security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the topic of internal security. I have been told about yesterday's discussion of the asylum law. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, from the SPÖ: Why did you prevent that before the summer there was a decision making of a necessary, modern and correct asylum law? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Because it's bad!]] [[Abg. Gaál: Because it is despicable!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] They have prevented the decision-making of the Asylum Act from being adopted by the SPÖ and have the responsibility to ensure that we can only put this necessary measure for security into effect now! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] They are the cause that some of the problems that have occurred over the summer could not really be solved. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But then, please also stand there – and do not go out here with crocodile tears to say that you are worth the safety! Mr Gusenbauer. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is precisely now, ladies and gentlemen, that important changes are being made, for example through European developments, changeovers, for example through economic opportunities ahead of us, or also those related to demographic development. I believe that a Parliament like this has the duty of defining, for example, the European line, on the basis of these excellent statements by the shell and the head. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] I find consensus in this house: yes to enlargement! In this House, however, there must also be consensus that we represent Austrian interests in Europe uncompromisingly. This is the task of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore, I do not understand that someone criticizes the fact that additional wishes for the EU Convention are expressed. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Who criticized this?]] I would rather understand it if we were to criticize, so to speak, all that is on the table. I am of the opinion that, of course, every country, including a smaller or medium-sized country, has a right to an EU Commissioner. I am of the opinion that, for example, water has to be given unconditional attention to unanimity and thus to Austrian interests. I see it in the same way as harmonisation. It will become a test case for the SPÖ whether they are on the question of harmonisation – again! – stop half way and leave her courage, as was the case with the pension reform. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This one shoots the ÖVP like the devil the holy water!]] It will become a test case for the SPÖ whether the principle of “own responsibility” – in addition to the principle of “solidarity” – is given appropriate priority in the matter of health. It will become a test case for the SPÖ whether it really takes the security issues, both internal and external security, seriously. There we will test you in your vote. It will become a test case for the SPÖ in education policy, whether you continue to support forced action in the sense of forced happiness – or whether you will increase diversity and voluntaryness, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It will become a test case for the SPÖ whether it is willing to contribute to important structural changes such as the necessary federal railway reform, for example, whether it is willing, for example, to contribute important structural impulses in research and development, to really work on the economic package – contrary to your previous behaviour – for the future of our country. [[Call to the Greens: I didn't know the SPÖ was ruling!]] We invite you to do so, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. Our scale is: What's with the country? And our scale goes on to say: What secures the future? – We are ready for such solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e8161	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e8179	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, you mentioned earlier that the word “parliament” comes from “parlare”, that is to say, talk about it. Yes, Federal Chancellor, you have spoken – but you have not said what you want to do in autumn. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You didn't listen to that!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] And that's actually a little poor for the announcement of wanting to explain itself about government work here. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! It is good if you also want to talk to us about the EU Convention, but: That was a little poor too! If we talk about the question of the European Constitution – there are also many open and critical questions for us Greens – then please address the problem of general care, a real problem, not only with the margin remark that the EU is taking on competence and wants to take away the countries and communities, but, for the sake of honesty, you would have to say that, for example, the Stability Pact between the Federal Government and the countries and communities is already forcing the countries and communities to privatise and sell in the field of general interest, where it would not be useful or necessary, it would not be this Stability Pact, which we owe to this federal government, but also to a European policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us stay at the EU Convention: Why, Mr Bundeskanzler, has the Austrian Federal Government not been committed to this, as part of the EU Convention, to losing no word about the description of the role of the neutral and alliance-free people within the framework of the European Constitution? Do we not have a law of neutrality, ladies and gentlemen, which we also have to implement – and not only in political debates that this federal government is constantly leading with itself, so to speak, to throw on the baptizers? [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! I appreciate your willingness to discuss, yes, but They're serving them properly. They have offered us dialogue from the opposition to the issue of health reform. Yeah, we're on this. We are willing to talk to you about the major health problems that are urgently to be solved. And there was also an open debate in this little round. But if your clubman Molterer, as well as the Minister of Health outside this summit, would like to add the additional notes and ask the opposition to the “test stand” again, with the comment: How does it look – you said so – with a little more self-responsibility?, then, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, we know how the wind blows. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Health care...!]] Therefore: With us from the Greens, there is no extension of self retention! That's clear to you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you are already talking about this in this still open debate, so to speak, as an edition, as a “test” for the opposition – and that in a debate that has not yet properly begun – you have to be accused of preventing this debate, this open debate in reality. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Is health care not self-care?]] Mr Klubobmann Molterer, we should be discussing government projects today. And what did you do? And I repeat: That's arrogance! You said: We will make “test cases” for the opposition! We don't sit here to present your test objects! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You say that all the time!]] That's not our job! We want to solve problems, and we demand from the government parties that you also express your views on what the problems are. However, I have not heard anything from Vice-Chancellor's head on the issue of the harmonisation of pension systems, except that he has delegated this responsibility to the social partners. I have not heard from Chancellor Schüssel about the harmonisation of pension systems. I have not heard anything from Chancellor Schüssel, nor from Vice-Chancellor Head to the need to give the youth, the younger people in a public pension system also a chance to give a perspective. Both gentlemen could have explained, yes, what this opportunity looks like. Let us therefore, when we talk about this government, also about the catalogue of its failure, about this catalogue of failure which the Federal Chancellor has somehow turned broad, saying: In the voest-privatization everything in butter, everything went great, only 40 000 Austrian shareholders... – Thank you, only 25 000 Austrian shareholders. [[Abg. May. Molterer: 25 000 he said! Stay with the truth!]] Even worse! [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Why? A doubling, please!]] Federal Chancellor! Until a few days ago, there were 8 million Austrians who owned almost 35 percent of the Voest shares. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But they have managed to make 25 000 out of 8 million shareholders – of course loyal to the Republic or ÖIAG – who have managed to make the proceeds from this possession for the common good! You call that a “success ”?- Oh, my God! That's supposed to be a success?- Oh, my God! [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: This is like in the GDR!]] Federal Chancellor! I think I can remember that it was you who said two or three weeks ago – for you, Federal Chancellor, that is already strange – that 32 € for a Voest share would actually be a fair and decent price. That's what I thought: Holla, the Federal Chancellor, who has always talked about it with his “twin”, the Minister of Finance, the politics must give away its hands, must not interfere in such transactions, so the Federal Chancellor makes a requirement to the address ÖIAG, of course so into the blue, 32 € would actually be very nice. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What did you think: holla?]] Do you know that this was one of the most massive interventions on the part of politics in the privatisation process!? – And this is from your side, which you always say: Hands away from an economic enterprise! However, here in the debate you have made the opposition responsible. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I would have expected something to happen – perhaps this is still from Mr Scheibner; he certainly also expects statements from the Federal Government, but they did not come – on tax reform. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Did you think “holla” again...?]] Mrs Partik-Pablé, where is the "muscle" of the Freedom Party on the question of tax reform? Where are you? [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Where is the vice chancellor, who has been on the run for months now – and always falls on the question of tax reform?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's sexistic as you talk...!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are expecting ideas and proposals here, but they have not come. On the question of employment, too, ladies and gentlemen, I would have expected a clearer announcement, something more than just to point out: We in Austria are still doing quite well in international comparison! For over a year now, we have been hearing comments from the Minister responsible for Labour and Economic Affairs, Mr Bartenstein, about the development of unemployment and employment, which cannot be surpassed by cynicism. In January 2001, for example, Federal Minister Bartenstein said an increase of 31,000 unemployed people that there was a marked decline in average length of residence in unemployment. In May 2002, the Federal Minister explained more about 40 000 unemployed compared to the previous year: Internationally a favourable position; in June 2002 – 33 000 more unemployed –: Increase significantly weakened; in July 2002 – 28 000 unemployed more than in the previous year –: Increase again weakened; in August 2002 – 27 000 unemployed more than in the previous year: Further weakening; in September 2002 – 28 000 more unemployed –: the EU’s third best unemployment rate. And that goes on to the more than 200 000 unemployed we now have, and in view of which you stand up and say: We are still relatively good internationally! – That does not help the 200 000 unemployed! Ladies and gentlemen! They are required, but not only to stand here and say with the expression of regret: Yes, we know that every unemployed person is too much. Do something! [[Abg. Grossruck: We do something, otherwise we would have a lot more unemployed! See Germany!]] Where are the Federal Government's programmes against youth unemployment? Where are the programmes in which not only is it fully said that no youth will remain without employment, without training, but that will also make it easier for young people to be employed after training, through the entry into labour market policy programmes and assistance beyond what you currently have to offer? - Nothing we've heard. However, ladies and gentlemen, there would be an urgent need for answers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm just taking out one point: Childcare. – Yes, there will be more 10,000 seats, the Federal Minister has said. Good! You will still have the opportunity to vote on these 10,000 childcare places today. We'll ask her. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't say that now! You've previously criticized that we're doing this with nail sampling and so on!]] But interesting is also the accompanying music it plays for this not only that of Mr. Strasser, who speaks of Vandalism on the streets when all day care is extended, but also, interestingly, by a head of state Herwig van Staa, who, in view of the demand for an extension of the afternoon care, immediately goes over to accusing the women who demand it to the desert. [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't have any test cases!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: We know that!]] “That a few mothers” – I quote from the “profile” – “have criticized the frequent change of staff during afternoon care in kindergarten, Van Staa does not understand at all. Those who are excited about it are the same ones who feel that their children have a different dad every day.” Well, thank you! [[Abg. May. Worm: Bravo! What does the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats say about this? What do the EIA's women say about this?]] If this is the accompanying music that the members of these coalition parties have to offer in the face of legitimate concern and legitimate desire for the extension of child care, namely that mothers are accused of being insulted by young people, then I say that this is obviously a policy as it is only owned by the ÖVP in this Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Holler!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: What do the ÖVP women say about such a statement? You're silent!]] However, this has nothing to do with you taking the concern of these women and also the young people seriously. Let's stick to education. The Federal Government always knocks itself on its shoulder and announces what it has not done: We have a state of emergency at the universities! But we also have – and you know that very well! – in the field of education, in schools, not equal opportunities, which you are constantly talking about. On the contrary! We still have major deficits in the field of equal opportunities – and all international and national studies at the same time – in the field of equal opportunities. Would you have presented something! Instead, Mrs Gehrer, the Federal Minister, says that equal opportunities are not discussed within the framework of the Future Commission. Yes, then where is there talk about equal opportunities in schools? This is a very urgent problem, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like the Secretary of State or the Minister of State to hold a political debate on transport not only with statements on the reduction of 10 000 or 12 000 ÖBB staff, but I would like us to have a debate on the expansion of public transport, in the sense that the Federal Government is negotiating with the ÖBB Board of Directors, how many million tons are coming to the rail, how many millions of kilometres of passengers come to the rail. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That would have been an announcement and a program worthy of a federal government that beats on its shoulder and has nothing but congratulations for itself and each other! But you're not able to do that. There's nothing to be used for beautiful reasons alone!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e8519	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e8538	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr Oellinger, your group has strongly opposed this debate today. [[Abg. Oillinger: At a later date!]] – Yes, the night no one listens and nobody sees that you really have no concepts for the future of this country and cannot even listen, Mr Oillinger. If you say that nothing has come from the Federal Government, then you either have a selective perceptiveness or you have not been attentive, because the concepts have been presented in the important core areas, especially the future of the country and its population. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Go, go!]] [[Abg. Oils: Where?]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This cannot be described as concepts!]] It is up to you and us now to discuss and see that they will be implemented as soon as possible. And we're not knocking on the shoulder, Mr. Oillinger, but we're gonna rip the sleeves up and pick them up. That would be good for you, too. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: They're falling over again!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary to make the changes now, especially at a time when we know that we have difficult times through the economy in the labour market, in the field of the economy, but we hope – and all expert statements and forecasts show in this direction – that an upturn can be achieved from next year onwards. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Can!]] Can, of course, Mr. Collegue. It would now be our and also your job – you are also acting as a lawyer in the economy – to ensure that the economy can really experience this economic upturn, that we increase the purchasing power of the population in order to make this hope become reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Unfortunately, this is not going to happen with your concepts!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Tax reform!]] We insist that we do this now. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the past, too, the Federal Government - the German Chancellor has said it, and I hope you have listened - has taken care of the economic packages of the last two years to prevent Austria from sleeping in recession. It will now be necessary, through a new economic package and as quickly as possible, to give citizens fiscal relief, to realise this hope for an economic upturn accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already decided on a tax reduction package for 2004. Unfortunately, they voted against from the opposition, from SPÖ and Greens. You voted against the fact that all incomes will be tax-free up to € 1,000 per month in the future. On the other hand, they voted that, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, the profits not collected would be taxed off, thereby creating investment incentives. They voted against this nonsense. Her Minister of Finance, Edlinger, abolished the fact that for the economy the year does not have 12, but has 13 months, at least when it comes to paying taxes. We also agreed in the coalition that in 2005 we will implement the greatest tax relief for citizens over the last decades with a comprehensive collective reform. This is decided, and it will be implemented. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now it is about entering into a discourse with the Federal Government as a parliamentarian. But, ladies and gentlemen, because we see that the economic situation could start, it will also be necessary for us to be flexible and to look closely at what measures we would like to take until 2005 so that we can use additional purchasing power promotion measures on this already decided tax reduction package in 2004. [[Abg. Oillinger: How do you get out of there?]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This will have to be the discussion of the next few weeks. We must show that we are flexible here and will put in place economic measures in the interests of taxpayers in the interests of the economy. [[Abg. Ollinger: You're getting out of there somehow! I'm sure you're looking for a way out again!]] - You shake your head, you're against it again. Wonderful! Talk here, announce, but when it comes to really doing something for the population, we don't know anything about it anymore. Ladies and gentlemen! We have used our Convention as a parliamentarian in Gosau to make concrete... – That was wonderful. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That must have been very nice!]] It was wonderful to get out of Parliament in this beautiful home country of Austria, Mr Gusenbauer. This would also be very good for you to create the strength there and work out the content for future work. [[Abg. Dr. Bleckmann: He was in Italy!]] We have also drawn up these measures very concretely, as far as possible. [[Abg. Oils: There's only a few left! The power is already consumed!]] And we will also implement this, ladies and gentlemen, together with the coalition partner! You can be sure of that. We will also take family-promoting measures because we believe that families are the ones most in need of our help. Ladies and gentlemen! Although it is a matter of ensuring pension and health care, you are here announcing that this is necessary, but in practice you are always opposed to it, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats and the Greens. [[Abg. May. Worm: But not as you do now!]] They then act with the fear of the population, with the legitimate fear that in future, in 20, 30 years, pensions might no longer be secure, the health system may not be financed anymore. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, justified!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Yes, this fear is justified!]] That is why the Federal Government has decided to introduce measures in the field of pension provision and pension insurance – the first package to guarantee pensions has been decided – as well as in the health field to adopt future-oriented measures. And if you're warning yourself, ladies and gentlemen, I'm wondering: What is unsocial in the model we propose for the rehabilitation of health care? We propose to introduce the same system that has been working well for the ÖBB for many years and decades – I think you'll be right – for many years and decades. What is unsocial in a system that you yourself have given to the Austrian Federal Railways and their insured persons in the health field? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Even State Secretary Finz smiles at what you say! That's crazy!]] If this is unsocial, then you have to take your own nose. We believe that this is a suitable system for all Austrians in the health insurance sector. This will be our model for the future! Stop your fear slogans and make sure that we can decide this quickly! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Harmonization of pension systems. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, as we are really waiting for you – including everyone else, but also you – to put your particular interests, your interests in the second row and really will ensure that, from next year on, there will only be a single pension system for all persons in employment, without privileges, without unjustified privileges, that is, special rights only where they are really justified, for example in the field of heavy workers or in particularly burdened areas such as executive service. These would be the concepts, and we must also look at them as parliamentarians. We have insisted – and we will implement this too – that Parliament is involved in this harmonisation discussion and that we do not discuss the proposal until it is decided firmly and firmly in the Federal Government. This is the manuscript and the new way of governing which you cannot take note. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – Mrs Silhavy, as you define your social conscience, we know that, and not only now, in view of the way you deal with this care scandal in Lainz in Vienna. That's where the competent city councillor Pittermann says it's all being built up, and the mayor insults a parliamentarian because she has pointed this out, there are no consequences, although these allegations that one has really taken the dignity of these people have been repeated for years. There was no response to that! But we do not know that only since this scandal, ladies and gentlemen, because we know what you did when you were in the Federal Government and were responsible for this area. In the harmlessly sounding structural adjustment law in 1996, you have given the pensioners zero increase, i.e. a real reduction, you have reduced the care money from 2 600 S to 2 000 S, and you have reduced the pocket money of those people we are discussing today, about those in Lainz, from then 1 100 S to 560 S. This is your social policy, ladies and gentlemen. But you will not experience from us that we give any consent there or that we will have you give us any advice. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] If your head of state Haider in Upper Austria sends a pensioner's letter, in which he writes that the pensions are shortened, that the children and grandchildren have to tremble about their pension, that self-retaining with the doctor and in the hospital make disease unfinancial from the night of the year, then the fear of being on the back of the pensioners, ladies and gentlemen, and irresponsible! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We are not afraid, but we are making reforms for the benefit of these people. You should finally take note of this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the topic of Voest, ladies and gentlemen! By the way, Mr Gusenbauer, if you take the “Kronen Zeitung” for your argumentation that something had gone wrong in voest privatisation, then there is also this headline that the Voest remains Austrian. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So you see, headlines in newspapers are sometimes like political speeches, at least those of the opposition: You are quickly changeable, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e8862	This does not apply to the speaking time, but to the volume level in the plenary!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e8883	The reality is about the development of stock prices. The price of Voest's share increased sharply when the privatisation was constructively discussed. He was then on a very high level, namely at over 36 €. But at the beginning of September, when you “at random” in Upper Austria, made this parade company and the fears of the Voest workers in the future your election topic – up to threats of strike – the course has quickly fallen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Wrong! You've made this a election topic! That's the problem!]] This is actually the responsibility you have to bear for the price of the Voest share. Don't put that on the federal government! That's why I'm saying: Voest privatisation is all right, good and right. The time was the wrong one, because one had to know that in an election campaign there are parties that do not think of the state, who do not think of the workers who do not think of the operation, but rather of their election campaign and therefore polemize why there could be a damage to this company. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But you must tell the Federal Chancellor! Tell the chancellor!]] That's why the timing was probably the wrong one, but that's also your responsibility. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's incredible! Tell the Federal Chancellor!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the issue of security, a very important issue. This is not a matter of the past, it is a topic of the present and the future. There are increasing numbers of crime and still a great abuse of asylum, ladies and gentlemen. We are in favour of providing support for the really politically persecuted, but if we have asylum applications from people from Germany, Switzerland, Hungary and similar countries, who have the right to an asylum procedure, then we know that the new asylum law is urgently needed to encourage this abuse to be reduced so that the duration can also be guaranteed that the really politically persecuted support is received but the abuse is stopped. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, but what did Strasser present? The design is bad!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Drug control: I'd expect you to finally go to the field against this injunction. We do not need decriminalization, nor do we need haphazards, but we need help for the addicts and full hardness against the drug dealers who are destroying the future of our children, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We are very grateful that, in terms of the European Union, it is the objective, in the first place, to enforce our interests, Austria's interests in Europe and towards the European Union and not vice versa. If only “blabla” comes from the opposition as soon as it is discussed that we want to secure our water resources and we cannot give our consent to the easing of these areas, then I also do not know what kind and what understanding of policies you have. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we Members are doing well to support this programme of the Federal Government for the autumn, to actively support it, but where it is necessary to give impulses so that the right path is taken. We should make every effort to prevent a policy of fear and insecurity, as it is operated by you, by the opposition. That is what we are in the future, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, Mr Landeshauptmann said correctly in his letter: “You’ve done a lot in your life” –
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e8979	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e8994	– that’s my last sentence – “... and created an exemplary social state.” He sent this letter to the Secretary of State Ursula Haubner. And I'll give him the right, and she'll keep it that way in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e9024	We have, as you can see with a look at the clock, another 40 minutes until 1 p.m. We could divide this into 4 times 8 plus 4 times 2 or 4 times 7 plus then probably 4 times 3 minutes. I think the second variant is the better. – The political groups agree. So the next four talk exactly 7 minutes as possible. At least I can't do it if the 4 times 3 minutes aren't really 4 times 3 minutes. Please, Mr. Dr. Cap. 7 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e9051	It should be noted that the comments of the two Chancellors, Federal Chancellors and Vice-Presidents were disappointing. We've really been expecting something else today. I'll tell you: Thank God Erich Haider wrote this letter to the Upper Austrians. In contrast to the head of state, he finally gave Pühringer pure wine. Of course there are pension cuts! That's the truth, you have to tell the truth at last! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, we can read today in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten) economic section that the AMS, the labour market service 2004 lacks federal funds for youth training. A reduction of € 15 million! That is what you call employment policy, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government? This is true of many young people in Upper Austria who need a job that needs training. Head of State Pühringer should have admitted in a letter that he did not prevail in Vienna. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And then there is the debate about the sale of voestalpine. The stock price at which the voestalpine was scraped was 32,50 €. Dr. Gusenbauer has rightly shown that most of them went abroad cheaply. I'll tell you: Privatization is privatisation! It will come once the day someone pays for the shares more, and then this company is no longer in Austrian hands. And sometime then perhaps not even the Linz site is secured. That is what this Federal Government is responsible for. And head of state Pühringer hasn't gotten through again! That's the result. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Unfortunately, you refuse to prefer tax reform. But to blame us that we have not participated in this sand-in-the-eye scatter, when you have a “tax relief” – 4 € per head per year! – have decided that this is a fruition of the Austrians. [[Abg. Scheibner: 400!]] I have to tell you that. You can't vote for the nonsense you brought in! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do you know that in Austria we have weak growth, poor employment development, the highest unemployment rate, that we, as far as investment, especially public, is concerned, the red lantern, is already tragic enough. But if, at European level, Minister Bartenstein does not even support the efforts of other major EU Member States at a conference of the ministers of the economy, that there is an investment offensive, so that the European economy is finally encouraged, then this is a scandal! What would that mean? – This would mean, for example, that there would be EU funds for the expansion of the Brenner base tunnel, which the Tyroleans so urgently need. So it's indifferent to you how the transit is, how traffic is going, and if there's a tunnel. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That's what the two chancellors could have said here. However, they have only been lost in cloudy formulations and have not given an opinion on specific questions. Next point: Finally make order in the ministerial offices! The audit report of the Court of Auditors has shown that you are wasting taxpayers without ending that there is an abuse of the loan contracts. Nothing's happening! Why is nothing happening? Is it indifferent for you to waste money there? Take something away from the Austrians, but you are wasting it yourself to the ministerial offices: It's got to end! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I'll tell you something. I have expected that the Federal Chancellor, perhaps also Mr. Vice-Chancellor, will say today: Yes, we have also studied the report of the German Federal Court of Auditors on the production of the Eurofighters. But of course that was not mentioned. However, it would have been advisable if this had been done. If, for example, the Minister of Defence announces that operating costs per year will be below €50 million, and it turns out that they are likely to be up to €100 million, and if the same Minister of Defense claims that there is nothing to be done about aircraft being tested in Austria and refers to manufacturers who have just been shown that the aircraft is only six percent accepted, so if it turns out that he has said the untruth here, because the operating costs will amount to €100 million, then I have to say: Something's wrong. [[Abg. Where's that?]] This is why a committee of inquiry is finally involved in bringing light into the Eurofighter dark, which is in reality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Germans now have to continue flying with the old MIG 29 of the Russians, because the Eurofighters are not at all ready to use, because, as the Federal Court of Auditors correctly notes, the assignment of the orders of the second non-manufactured. That means they can't deliver the Eurofighters to Austria at all! They're not flying at all! The on-board gun you were so proud of is not functional at all! The aircraft shall not drag any ammunition, in reality only start at temperatures above 5 degrees Celsius and shall not be removed from the airport for more than 20 minutes. The Court of Auditors simply and simply notes that the aircraft are not operational. Explain Please ask the Austrians that you buy an aircraft of €2 billion that is not flightable, where the operating costs that are dangerous to the pilots and the population explode. The Eurofighters will fly to their heads, that will be the result! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is why I can only say: How long, Federal Chancellor, do you want to abuse the patience of the Austrians and above all your voters? How long? I mean, on Sunday is the day to put a sign that it can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e9178	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e9211	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Federal Minister! High house! Dear spectators on the ranks and at home in front of the TV screens! After the 'Kabarett Simpl' in the person of Mr Cap has made another test of talent, I would like to return to the agenda. To you, Mr Cap: If you criticize Voest-Privatisation, you will also need to criticize your show and parade contractor Hannes Androsch, for he was the one who brought together an Upper Austria solution with Ludwig Schahringer in Upper Austria, according to which Upper Austria, which is a company there, is a core shareholder and the voestalpine has remained an oberösterreichian company in the sense of privatization. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Do you believe this nonsense?]] You have to make that up with your colleague Androsch, and maybe you'll ask him how he did it and what his view is. Perhaps this will change your mind. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel and Vice-Chanceller Haupt today announced a number of offensives: Education, training, economic offensives and security offensives. [[Abg. Oillinger: Where are the Federal Chancellor and the Vice chancellor?]] It is also about addressing the challenges of demographic development and discussing the health system. These tasks will come to us in autumn, and we will discuss them accordingly, as will the other problems which this Federal Government has already solved, and then decide in the interests of the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenbauer, that your het campaigns, that your uncertainties have not benefited anything, you should have known this at the latest since the last elections. In every speech – I have in particular the words of Mrs Bures in the ears – you have condemned the social cold, the horrors of the government. Do you know what the voters did? He presented the receipt by confirming this government by giving it a new mandate to rule because the citizens have failed a lot than you. They know that reforms are necessary and need to be made in order to secure the welfare state of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] An example of how it goes, and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has also cited it, is Upper Austria. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] – Let us speak the figures, Mr Gusenbauer, not laugh, but let the numbers speak! Of course, you can laugh if you want, but that's not so ridiculous. I would rather expect your condolences, ladies and gentlemen. In the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of 23. September – this is not the “Linzer Volksblatt”, which you could say would be a newspaper close to us – it says under the title: ‘OE: Country of work No. 1’: ‘... Strong economy creates work. ... Thus, the number of enterprises increased in 2002 to a total of 61,735. As compared to 1995,... there are more 14 328 farms.” This is a policy with the signature of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Do you read the listing before?]] It also says: Upper Austria is an attractive economic location. “4 000 Upper Austrian export companies reached an export volume of €19.3 billion” or 25 percent of the total Austrian export volume. – These are figures, ladies and gentlemen, which we let speak before we begin to criticize. Or let us look at the unemployment rate in Tyrol, which, like in Upper Austria – in both federal states, there are ÖVP country leaders – is quite outstanding. We actually have full employment. Our unemployment rates are falling as they rise in Vienna. [[Abg. May. Worm: Do you also have the numbers on women's employment?]] [[Continued calls and unrest at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] 9 percent in Vienna, 3.5 percent in Upper Austria: These are numbers that can be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the SPÖ: When are these numbers? What are the exact figures?]] Yeah, I got it if you want it. 3.5 percent in June 2003, 8.9% in red Vienna, more than double. Youth unemployment: 5 percent of total unemployment in Upper Austria, 9.3 percent in Vienna. Long-term unemployed: 0.4 percent in Upper Austria, 5.5 percent in Austria. – These are numbers that the labour market service provides; they are not mine. The per capita debt in Upper Austria is 0.0 percent, in Vienna it is 855 € per person. That's numbers! In view of this, it is no longer surprising, ladies and gentlemen, that the SPÖ is leading a campaign under the belt line. Mr President. Please don't give me orders, because this is the O-tone that the SPÖ spreads in Upper Austria: “Lying” they insult the head of state, “treasoner” the socialist Haider insults him, he is called “Milupa-Baby”, even the designation as a Nazi must be liked. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Who is he called by?]] On the homepage, the SPÖ campaign by Dr. Pühringer speaks as “Zwerg”, in which the genetic material is too short and so on. [[Abg. Auer: (in the direction of SPÖ) Shame!]] You could go on with this stuff. Ladies and gentlemen! Distance yourself from the Upper Austrian Socialists! That's not the way we're supposed to deal with each other. This is rejected by the population. Mrs. Stäger must go up to an elephant dish, a lion must hold on to the picture on the posters. This is your election campaign in Upper Austria: Protest the political opponent, make the successful national captain bad, and trigger a sudel campaign that is looking for the same. Finally, I'll tell you something, because my four-liner, too, is coming back: Making mad, spreading fear, riding on elephant rasps, yelling at others, not generating, so it will lose on Sunday d’election.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e9396	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. The speaking time is 7 minutes, any verses are included. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e9414	Ladies and gentlemen! Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr. Federal Minister! The Federal Government's projects for autumn have been outlined today. Since days, even since the summer, there has been a very urgent plan by the Federal Government, namely a novel of the Austrian asylum law. This was so urgent that the Federal Minister intended to have this very, very comprehensive novel in Parliament in a committee meeting checked through and decided on. Parliamentary resistance and the need for legislation on serious fundamental rights to be discussed intensively in Parliament, that is, those who have raised these concerns, and the parliamentary opposition has so far at least managed to make this intense debate in Parliament real. And yesterday, Federal Chancellor – and I would like to give you a live report a day later, if you so wish, because I do not know whether you have had the opportunity to talk to the colleagues of the government groups or to the Federal Minister himself about it – the first part of this discussion has taken place here in Parliament. And I am not presenting my assessment to you now, but just read what Austrian daily newspapers like the “Kurier” write, for example: ‘Principal rejection for road users asylum design’ Ladies and gentlemen! I have been in the National Council for a long time, and I have already experienced many legislative acts, but such a unanimous rejection of a draft law from the whole of the expert scene, whether these are professors, representatives of churches or representatives of refugee organisations, but also by those institutions which have set up themselves for their own deliberations, such as the Human Rights Advisory Council, I have rarely experienced in Parliament. [[Abg. Ellwall: That's only partially right!]] Mr President of the Supreme Court of Rest, Dr Felzmann, said here yesterday in local VIII, in his capacity as Chairman of the Human Rights Advisory Council in expert hearing on the new asylum law, that he had doubts as to whether the objective of this novel, namely the acceleration of asylum procedures in Austria, could actually be achieved, because the novelle constitutes a violation of fundamental rights and obligations under international law. It seems more than strange when the institution which advises the Minister on his political projects poses such concerns in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Krainer: He doesn't read it!]] And it shows that the real fundamental right call, based on science, non-governmental organizations and opposition, is at the same time a Community effort of all parliamentary groups and all experts: Asylum procedures in this country need to become effective faster, better and more rule-of-law. Faster and better! The faster completion of asylum applications in Austria – this is the key and this should also determine the autumn work of the Austrian Federal Government, because it is in the hands of the Austrian Government to actually implement this urgency in the asylum process. Federal Minister! – The Federal Minister, Strasser, is not present, although this is such a big autumn project, but the Federal Chancellor. – Mr Bundeskanzler! In this connection, I have heard from Mr Vice-Kanzler, and then from Mr Klubobmann Molterer only the following: It is about ensuring security. In the speeches on the subject, it even went so far that Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner went on to sketch a scenario that is the bar of every reality. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's not true!]] He actually wanted to make us aware of all those who heard that there were asylum applications from Germany, Hungary and Switzerland in Austria, and that in greater abundance. [[Abg. Scheibner: That is not true, I have not spoken of great abundance, but only of the possibility!]] Do you know, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner, what can be read on the home page of the Ministry of the Interior? – There are three asylum applications from Germany, two from Hungary and zero from Switzerland! What kind of problem is that? [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not true what you say!]] – Then the Ministry of the Interior lies in its statistics! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The figures of the Ministry of the Interior are always available to me. Ladies and gentlemen! These issues concern respect for the rule of law, fundamental rights, the Austrian constitution and international law. [[Abg. Wittauer: Austria is exemplary!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] The experts have articulated their “limitless rejection” of this draft. But it's not too late. The good will of all sides is given. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is not simply a question of adopting a constitutional law which the Constitutional Court will then bring back, and then a new one will be made. It's about human fates! People stay on the track! It's not about a little money you might get back to, but about existence. Nothing but this has been tried by the experts to express, and have appealed to the Federal Chancellor. However, the current state of the Federal Government is best documented by a minister who, unfortunately, is not present, namely Mr Böhmdorfer, who has actually risen to formulate the idea that in the future, one could order judges on time in Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: (a document holding to the height) There is Switzerland!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Are you aware of what thoughts of this kind, expressed by a minister of justice, mean? This calls into question fundamental constitutional principles in Austria! The separation of power is a fundamental principle of the Constitution, and the independence of the judges is part of it. If a minister of justice – and with this I conclude – can imagine bringing judges into his dependence, then I can only say: These are thoughts that correspond to a constitutional structure that may have been valid in the 1930s and 1940s, but has no place today!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e9562	The next speaker is Mr Walch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e9580	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners in front of the TV screen and here in the hall! Today I have to help the SPÖ a little on track and remind her of what she has done over the past 30 years and what she has left us. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What kind of rail? The one you're talking about?]] [[Abg. Oillingers: Help yourself on the track!]] Mr Gusenbauer has only made criticisms in his remarks. [[Call the SPÖ: flowering landscape!]] I haven't heard any proposals, just criticism. This has also been demonstrated by SPÖ economic policy over the last 30 years with SPÖ finance ministers, SPÖ social ministers and so on. [[Abg. Krainer: FPÖ State Secretary, FPÖ Finance Minister!]] Why do we need to implement reforms now? – Because privileges have been built up during this period and a corresponding debt level has been developed: 2 200 billion schilling! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! If you are talking about voest-privatization, you also have to ask: Haven't most nationalized companies been privatized among your finance ministers and under your Federal Chancellor? More than 50 percent of national lights have been privatized. 56,000 employees of national workers have lost their jobs. You forced people under 50 into the pension in the Voest. So don't say that's what the FPÖ and the ÖVP are doing! You were the ones who did this! If you had thus worked economically and had not built up any privileges in pensions and social security and much more, then we would not need to implement these reforms now. But we'll do it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] On behalf of Mr Öllinger: It is interesting that at the pressure of the liberals in Austria, the first stage of the tax reform with 1. January 2004 begins. Half a billion € get people back: 14 500 € tax-free income. Social and health insurance: All employees in Austria will become 1st. January 2004 to pay 0.3 percent less health insurance, and much more. Mr. Oellinger, you didn't agree. You were against it, and now you are criticizing us again by asking what about the tax reform. When it's ready again, you'll vote against it again anyway! [[Abg. Oils: Think first, then speak!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Do you even know what you want in this house? What is the policy of the Greens in Austria? I take away various media – and I think they write nothing wrong – that green Members demand that the fuel price should be increased, that no more roads should be built in Austria and that reconstructions should be carried out. [[Abg. Oils: What did you read? What are you reading for newspapers?]] But there are no more equestrian rides, except in Vienna, when you're on vacation! We liberals are in favour of expanding the infrastructure. [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] You can see it: Since Austria has a free infrastructure minister, not only has it been planned and tested, but it has also been built. [[Abg. Oils: You've had three!]] In recent years there have been a lot of openings. Roads and bridges are being built and something is done for the train! Of course, the corresponding tests need to be carried out. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A word for voest-privatization: I really have to say it is important and their duty that Voest staff representatives work for their employees so that this successful company remains in Upper Austria. Our freedom of initiative in September, against which you have also voted, and our liberal government team, together with the ÖVP, have made an Austrian solution possible! [[Abg. Ollinger: Blamage! You've been blaming!]] Our liberal top candidate in Upper Austria, Günther Steinkellner, has put pressure on some to participate. [[Abg. Ollinger: Blamiert!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'm just wondering: Where is BAWAG's participation? We have increased employee participation, banks and insurance companies participate, but I do not read anything from the BAWAG. These are employees' money! The BAWAG could have been a juicy part of it if one could give the SPÖ trade unions faith. But I'll hear it: I hope that Mr Vergestnitsch will speak on this matter. To harmonise pension systems: I call on all the parties here in this House to support harmonisation in order to ensure equality, whether this is the ÖBB or whatever: equal payments, equal expectations, equal retirement age. [[Abg. Oillinger: Now at once!]] That's important. All privileges must be abolished. You of the Social Democrats have built up these privileges, and I already know that it hurts you accordingly. But everything must be carried out according to the ASVG system. The ÖBB reform is important. If I keep a farm in Austria and don't want to shoot billions constantly, I also have to be reformable, not like today in Upper Austria: Demonstrations – especially the social democrats and trade unionists – help to stop workers on the bridges in the early days so that they do not get into work. You will honor this situation in the election accordingly!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e9795	The speaking time is over, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e9811	One more word: We liberals represent the interests of the Austrians without Wenn and Aber!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e9848	Mrs Bures is the next speaker. I would ask that the speaking time of just under 3 minutes, taking into account the last speaker, be observed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e9867	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank – amazingly, it is only gentlemen who follow this debate, but this government also obviously consists mainly of men! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am sorry that you have not used this declaration you have forced to actually meet a necessary need for explanation. I believe that this was not an explanation, but a clarification that you presented here today. But this obviously also has to do with the fact that you need to see government reality clarified, as your wish coalition has been sleeping from a crisis to the next and from one dispute to the next for six months. The discussion was good, however, because it showed how to deal with election promises. Federal Chancellor! Her election-flights from the interception hunters, that she is financing an economic platform, or the promised tax reduction have become clear on the tapet today. They obviously have routines in empty promises and routines in the manipulation of facts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! Let me mention just two points where there is a need for explanation: Explain to the 35 000 unemployed young people why they have no chance of teaching or training! Or explain to young families why in a wealthy country like Austria, 90,000 childcare places are still missing and you have removed the kindergarten billions! [[Vice chancellor Mag. Main: He didn't delete them!]] Federal Chancellor! It would also be necessary to present a recent statement to the thousands of Voest employees and to all other Austrians, why you should wear their property – Mrs Gehrer said, on the decision of the party board of the ÖVP – and sell it at a discount price. This selling price corresponds to the price of three Eurofighters. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: My God, you haven't learned anything about it yet!]] These are unnecessary and – as we know today – also unsuitable Eurofighters! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have remained guilty of all these statements to us and to the people. However, this may have to do with your remoteness, because you obviously don't care about the problems and concerns of the people. We Socialists are massively different from you. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can see this at Lainz, how you differ! Thank God you are different from us!]] We accept the problems of the people. [[Abg. Scheibner: What have you done in recent years?]] We have presented a pension fairness model; we have a concept for a health system that guarantees all the same access regardless of income; we have today passed a federal care home law; and we are the only ones who have introduced a tax reduction programme into this House. Austria has earned itself a better policy than the policy of this government!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e9964	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e9982	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it was important that we have held this debate today and here and that we continue it too. We've all seen: Many important issues have been raised, and the opposition has also apparently found pleasure in a lively debate. For me, the first item on the agenda was already very important today, because in general the completely different ways of access of the government and the opposition parties – in particular the Greens – was put on the table on the various political issues once again. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: What a surprise!]] The first item on the agenda was the important transit and transport policy, which Mrs Lichtenberger once again called for an absolute ban on night-traveling. [[Abg. Brosz: Daily Summary?]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No!]] – A driving ban for harmful trucks. You're apologizing. [[Abg. Oils: Sinks! You can say “sinkers” quietly!]] Our access is for our transport politicians to discuss with our national politicians and with our friends at European level, with the politicians who know well, which is important for a location to be entertained and briefed at all levels in a network. [[Abg. Reheis: We did not receive an answer!]] The result of this process, which is more thoughtful than just one question, namely the solution to the transit problem, is that we want to and will solve this problem in the European context, and vice versa, that we are doing our homework at the Tyrolean level. We also need our federal politicians and all of you here when, for example, we are planning a new line between Völs and Hall in Tyrol for the commuters to bring them to the train and to take off the roads from this commuting traffic. [[Abg. Reheis: These are empty words, Mrs. Colleague!]] This is a project of our head of state together with the tramway, where we need a third of the costs of the federal government and will certainly also find support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e10094	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e10113	Mr President. High house! In all manner of soberness [[Call to the liberals: Hopefully!]] [[Abg. Grandruck: We assume that!]] The problem is not that any government wants to explain itself here. In view of the condition, there is still much to explain. Rather, the problem is that if you really have something to explain, you always refuse. This discrepancy was shown – as I believe, legitimately indicated. It should not be put under the carpet that if, for example, a finance minister or other members of the government are to be held responsible for Parliament's control bodies, you want to stop and prevent this with your supremacy and majority – and this was very much the subject today. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We should remember this in good time so that these conditions do not take place in more and more federal states. In the matter itself: No reasonable economic politician will blame you for being responsible for the world economy, but we accuse you of being unable or unwilling to do your homework. It remains: You do not carry out an economic offensive, but you prefer to drag the problem into the autumn, not act where it would be necessary, and disappear where it is necessary to deceive the population. – These are your two principles. That's what we've learned. What is the reason for this relatively – as you just think behind me – “kneumen” claim? It's easy! A economic policy example: the Voest. Again: There's no core shareholder! – I guess that's what you've already told everyone who knows each other a little bit. As long as the shareholders do not join forces, so syndicate, there is no core shareholder. This has not only prevented you from doing so for the future, because this is the only sensible measure that can still be taken. Here too there is a proposal for the future: If you have already brought the voest into the black sphere of influence, at least you can see that a resale is not so easily possible! But you don't want that either! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] By the way, the price achieved is simply too low! You can't discuss that away. Say with your course fantasy claims You don't have anything else to do with it. The black sphere has torn down cheap state property. That's the real statement behind it! The real shame – I have to call it that way – is the fact that the stock market package at the price of two Eurofighters – you have to imagine that once! – has hiked and around two more Eurofighters the convertible bond. A shame! That's your economic policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e10177	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. I did not want to comment on one expression or another now, because this was about the speaking time of Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e10205	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! It is positive that today I have the opportunity to speak to the Austrians and above all to the Tyrolean population, because many things are really clear. This government has worked very positively. It may be that Mr Bures has the impression that sometimes the government is not of the opinion, but I can tell you with certainty: Free government members and Members of the Free Party are fighting in these reforms for the people, for Austria and for our future. It is important to clarify this once. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] The liberals have acted as a reform party and as such have led the EIAs to implement reforms as well. [[Abg. Reheis: Crasher!]] I can remind you of the child's allowance. In child money, all parties have said that this is an uncovered check, populism, and who should pay it. We have promised, and we have implemented it! [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] We have entered this government with a promise, and we have also kept this promise! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Every family that has come to the benefit of this child money will thank the liberals if they remember it again, for we have waged a long struggle for it. The “new finish” is also an achievement for which we have struggled for ten years. We've implemented it! At the national level in Tyrol, we now demand the allowance until 6. Year of life. - There was a big call again! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With our top candidate, Nadja Pramsoler and Willi Tilg, we will also enforce this. [[Abg. Reheis: An issue again! That's an issue!]] As far as Tyrol is concerned, there is a whole list of promises that have not been met by the Social Democrats and by the ÖVP. [[Abg. May. Worm: The childcare facilities, where are they?]] Unfortunately, I don't have enough time for God, but I would like to tell you the following: Especially in the field of asylum policy, Tyrol is a good example. We liberals have demanded that illegals do not receive social assistance. [[Abg. Oillinger: An idiot has never received a social benefit!]] We continue to demand: No social assistance for illegals and no social assistance for criminals! That's an important demand. Tirol is an Eldorado for illegals, because it is not possible to repeal this regulation in Tyrol. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As regards future asylum policy, it is precisely the freedom pioneers. The reduction of the procedure brings injustices to the Austrian population. It can't be that someone who isn't legal here gets money while the poverty study in Tyrol showed that women live just below the poverty line. And no one will understand that we spend money on illegals, but that we do not support our own population, the women, the families. In Tyrol 17 million were spent on the music school, 14 million for the national theatre, but only 10 million for family support! [[Abg. Reheis: Human- Despising Politics...!]] We liberals stand for the families, we will support the families. Youth is our future, and we will continue along this path. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Dear Tyroleans! Go to this choice! Take responsibility, even if the media sometimes do not treat us fairly. Support Willi Tilg and his team to carry out and implement this control, because the Social Democrats and the Greens are unable to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e10357	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. What time should I set the clock for? - 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e10376	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The television broadcast has ended and the Tyrolean election campaign has hit its last bloom here. [[Abg. Olympus!]] Let me therefore return to so many questions. In his statement on autumn work, the Federal Chancellor referred to a number of points. I would just like to make four brief comments. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have said that you want Austria to maintain and improve its top position on youth employment. Mr Bundeskanzler, I find it embarrassing - as I have said - that you are addressing this issue so, because what we have observed over the last three years has been and is a dramatic increase in youth unemployment as well as a dramatic inaction on the part of the government. That's it. You now have relatively good figures in the European comparison, only because you have assumed from a peak value which a government has left to you. They have listened, but the Social Democrats have been responsible for this issue. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Let me address a second issue because you were so kind to include me in your praise for Minister Strasser. I have not put any particular emphasis on being included in this praise because we have distinguished and distinguished ourselves in an essential point. While Strasser experienced a dramatic increase in the burden of crime in his time, but did not do anything and at the same time recorded a dramatic decline in the rate of investigation, I had, for example, as a minister in my time, but also my predecessor and successor, consistently declining crime burdens and consistently increasing levels of education. That makes the difference! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you meant to have to compare yourself here with Germany and to brag that Austria would have achieved twice as good growth as the Federal Republic of Germany. Firstly, both values are pitiful and secondly, the economic policy you pursue and which is being operated in Germany is the same. And we criticize both policies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is not a question of pea counting being confused with economic policy. At a time like the present one, in a weakness of growth throughout Europe, it is a matter of ensuring that national scope is exploited and, in addition, that a programme of growth is shared at European level. I am therefore also pleased, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that although I have not heard of you very much, I have heard some other sounds than those of Minister Bartenstein in the last few days. You, Mr Bundeskanzler, have at least said here that you are in favour of a European growth initiative if this does not endanger the Stability Pact. I think that is a point that could be made clearer. That's our line too, that's where we agree. We need a European initiative because only a European initiative can actually have the effect of giving maximum impetus to what we can do in Austria. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] Let me address one last point. Mr Bundeskanzler, you said that EU enlargement is one of the issues we are now facing. In fact! At the same time, however, they have stated that this EU enlargement is well prepared and as arguments they have mentioned exclusively the results of the referendums in the candidate countries. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Indeed!]] I should like to remind you once again, Mr President of the Federal Chancellor, that there are three political groups here in the House, namely your group, the liberals and we from the SPÖ, on 26 May. Two years ago, a joint resolution was adopted to the Federal Government, in which we made very concrete proposals and said that this enlargement was still to be prepared. It is necessary to launch a qualification campaign for Austrian workers, an infrastructure initiative is needed, an initiative for qualifications is also needed in the business areas and in order to support businesses in the border areas. What did you realize if I was allowed to ask? – They have not prepared this EU enlargement internally as we did then jointly. That is why I can only ask you to do what is now possible before the 1. May 2004 is fast moving in the way.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e10463	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. 3rd. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Requests 171/A by Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr. Peter Wittmann, Herbert Scheibner, Dr. Eva Glawischnig, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Law amending the Federal Constitutional Act, the National Council Election Act 1992, the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971, the Volksammensammungsgesetz 1972, the Volksbewerbungsgesetz 1989, the Volksbewijsengesetz 1973, the European Election Order, the Electoral Evidence Act 1973 and the European Elections Act, 95/A by Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the provisions of the Federal Constitutional Law on Election Law and a Federal Act, which amends the Federal Law on the Election of the National Council (National Council Constitutional Law 1992), the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971, the Volksbewandungsgesetz 1973, the Volksbewerbungsgesetz 1989, the Volksammungsgesetz 1972 and the Electoral Evidence Act 1973, and 17/A of Deputies Dieter Brosz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Law on the Election of the National Council (NRWO) (163 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e10520	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. In order to make a print error correction, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Dr. Fekter.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e10542	Thank you, Mr President. – I have a print error correction to the report of the Constitutional Committee in 163 of the supplements: The Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act, the National Council electoral order 1992, the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971, the Volksammensammungsgesetz 1972, the Volksbeschreibungsgesetz 1989, the Volksbewerbungsgesetz 1973, the Electoral Order, the Electoral Electoral Act 1973 and the European Election Act. In Article II(7), Appendix 4, the statement of support shall include the word ‘am’ in the word ‘election of the National Council’. I would like to explain the following: In the creation of the form on an electronic basis, the above sketched mistake – that is, the little word “am” has been mistakenly forgotten.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e10566	I would like to thank the rapporteur for her statement and now give the floor to Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e10584	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, The present legislative proposal is a legislative proposal of four parties, which has the content of the fact that, in the case of elections at the federal level, when the 18. In fact, years of life can be chosen. I am pleased that this has become a four-party request and I believe that we have held a very constructive discussion here. I would like to make an amendment at the outset – including all four parties – namely Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Krainer, Scheibner, Dr. Glawischnig and colleagues on the report of the Constitutional Committee (163 of the Supplements) on a Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act, the National Council Election Act 1992, the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971, the Volksammungsgesetz 1972, the Volksbewerbungsgesetz 1989, the Volksbeworgengesetz 1973, the European Election Order, the Electoral TV Act 1973 and the European Elections Act. I would like to briefly explain this proposal in its key points. He is ahead of you, and I ask you, Mr President, to include it in the debate. The key points are, quite simply, as follows: We have submitted a Federal Constitutional Act, in reality the title “Federal Law” and Article I, in which the Constitution is actually amended, should be included as a constitutional provision. The rest of this amendment includes essentially print error corrections and, above all, citation adjustments, such as the term ‘Bundesanstalt, Statistik Österreich’. ‘Austrian Central Statistical Office’ is outdated, but was still provided for in the current draft law. - So far to form. I would like to comment briefly on this. As I said, ==References== You can now actually choose a year of life at the federal level. This is a promise made before the last National Council election, and it has been respected. The representative of the Young ÖVP, our youngest colleague, Mrs Silvia Fuhrmann, has discussed this subject in great detail with us in the party and has been very committed to it. We have also been happy to comply with this request, because, in our view, the past course of action was unfair. So far, it has been the case that some people were only able to vote for the first time when they were almost 19 years old. It has come to pass through the separation of the foundation and the election day. We have found a very good solution with the current bill, according to which 17-year-olds are already included in the electorate. This is also a solution adapted by administrative technology to address these inconsistencies and injustices. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, I would like to draw attention to another injustice that we have repeatedly brought into the debate by the Austrian People's Party. Unfortunately, this our wish has not been fulfilled so far, namely the demand for the introduction of the choice of letter. You may already get fat, but it's still not that far. We've been calling for a choice of letters for years. In my view, it is almost a matter of course for modern people that those who already have the right to vote must also have the opportunity to exercise the choice of letter according to their place of residence. The SPÖ is blocking a demand, a desire, a self-evident for modern people. I think this is very unfortunate. There are also, as you all know, recent developments, such as e-voting. This is a much more modern method than the very old-fashioned choice of letters. This will still come to us as a decision. We will be confronted with how we stand for e-voting and will not even have solved the old-fashioned instrument of the choice of letters. [[Abg. Murauer: Very sad!]] And everything because of the very old-fashioned blockade policy of the SPÖ. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Of course, like the choice of letters you do not allow, but extensions you want. It just doesn't fit in. However, they do not call for political enlargement, for example with regard to electoral age reduction or foreigners' right to vote, but they do not allow those who are already able to participate in political events to take part in it at all. In my opinion, they are deceiving modernity by this reduction in the electoral age, but they do not have it. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You are not interested in it!]] However, what is correct is the following: By changing society, by increasing life expectancy, by ageing society, the share of the older population in social participation also increases percent. That we have to find answers to that is true. But with the simple solution to the simple reduction of the electoral age, I do not believe that this problem should be addressed. That's where I hold it with Albert Camus, who meant: The progress of thinking is to postpone the obvious conclusion. – With such an elementary question of democracy, it takes a lot more grip, much more thinking how to solve this problem of aging and taking part in the political life that we have to solve, also sensiblely and wisely. I would like to point out the following: We know from many studies, especially from youth studies, from youth value studies, that the interest of young people to participate in elections is not very great. For example, the Youth Value Study explicitly states: A slight interest... – Let me say, I will explain it to you immediately. [[Abg. Krainer: Look up at the gallery, how many...!]] I almost believe that you do not want what I want to explain to you, namely that the low interest has been demonstrated, namely... – Read on! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] The low interest is not demonstrated by the rejection of traditional policy. That's not it! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: ( towards SPÖ) Read!]] It is policy in the conventional, institutional field, that is: Parties, negotiations, Parliament – there is little interest. You can prove this in enough studies. However, what is available in the youth – and there is also a potential for solutions, Mr. colleague – is that participation in basic democratic activities is very interesting and very many young people also participate in them. I therefore believe that – and this is what I would like to argue – the approach of the countries that 16-year-olds can already take part in municipal council elections is an interesting opportunity, because this is a direct environment in which they can decide. I also believe that the political interest of young people in classrooms cannot really be aroused by a party-politically motivated politicization. I would also like to say that 18 years, the age with which this participation is now beginning, is not such a badly chosen age limit. The school or teaching ends, which is an age in which many young people make their professional choice. You get full age at 18. Therefore, you can assume 18 as the right key age, from which participation is possible in democratic ways. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, I think that youth must be brought to democracy and that we should also provide for increased political education in school here. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Mrs. Oberlehrerin! Hourly cuts!]] The reduction to 16 years, Mrs Oberleiterinsicht, is in fact a populist demand; it just sounds modern. I've asked you before. Why not 15, why not 14, why not 12? [[Abg. Krainer: I already explained this to you at first reading!]] – Participation, participation is important, politics for youth was and is always important to the ÖVP. That's where we need to find solutions. You will find us as a partner for smart solutions, you will not find us as a partner for populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e10721	The amendment tabled by Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer in his key points is now under negotiation. In accordance with Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure, it has also been distributed to Members and is annexed to the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e11054	The next speaker was Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e11072	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first part of her remarks, my predecessor was quite right in some matters. At the beginning, however, I would like to make a correction: This was not an initiative taken by the ÖVP, but it was Mr Krainer, who has been particularly active here – and he is still part of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – That only to the correct that you attach a lot of things to the hat, which you have actually prevented for a long time. It is now a consensual arrangement, which is certainly one of the most important corrections to the electoral order, because it is not clear that one is on 1st. Years of a year set an arbitrary deadline, which ultimately leads to the exclusion of all those who, when the elections take place in October, which have been 18 for ten months, from the election. First of all, this is unfair and, secondly, also contradicts the introduction of the electoral age. In times of a central reporting register, it should not be a problem to ensure that this actually works at the date of the election. Therefore, I believe that this solution is a first fair and second technically appropriate solution, because the other solution should serve administrative simplification, but with the Central Reporting Register it is certainly an obsolete solution. It is only a shame that this solution was also delayed by the ÖVP for several months, because we were actually done with this solution in the early summer and had also agreed to it. Nevertheless, it was postponed. This, of course, raises the suspicion that one did not want to create a prejudice for the country's electoral orders in Upper Austria and Tyrol, with which one could possibly run the risk of bringing in these federal states those young people who may not be pleased. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what the opposition wanted, Mr. Colleague!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a nonsense!]] Finally, it is not to be stopped, and there will also be the implementation of this or similar law there. Even more, I regret that my previous speaker is so categorically opposed to a truly legitimate demand, namely the reduction of the electoral age to 16 years, with any studies by any people who give opinions. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: She answered differently!]] The practice looks different. If one sees that this group of people in the municipal council elections in Burgenland has on average made the most use of the right to vote – much more than the 20 to 25-year-olds and also significantly more than the 25 to 35-year-olds – this shows that the young people at the age of 16 are far more interested in politics than we assume. It is a pity that they are denied access to politics. Let them do all the business of daily life: They can conclude contracts, they can open accounts, they can pay taxes. [[Abg. Scheibner: What? With 16?]] All shops of daily life are allowed and are also made. They may pay taxes, but may not agree on the use of these taxes. First of all, this is a logically wrong conclusion and, secondly, also with regard to the generation contract which has been so often conjured in the discussions of recent months. There are absurd ideas such as the “right of representation ” for children for their parents. In my opinion, this is really on the hair! But those who already provide tax benefits and thus provide benefits for that State not to give the right to vote are absurd. To reject such an extension of the right to vote is antique, in my opinion completely outdated and clearly shows the conservative policy, this stoning policy, as is still common in the conservative camp. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On the one hand, it is said that the boys who are getting less and less must be more involved in pension decisions. But when it comes to involving young people in the political debate in general, namely as equal members, as voters and electors, it is excluded. This is a very bipartite policy, which shows great reservations. In my view, the whole discussion is strange when Mrs Bundesminister speaks of a generation that is more interested in parties than children, but in the end he has children who, in turn, have no children and are double-earners. Of course, you can always measure with two dimensions. If it concerns me, then rather not if it concerns the others, then it is. [[Abg. Scheibner: But that's not serious, this argument!]] – That’s serious, because it is. It's a fact! You can always preach water and drink wine. If the water is right for the others, then it should also be right for those who open such a discussion. It is a pity that the parties of the government do not get through to a drop in the age of elections. She would be at the highest point of time, she would be necessary! But you are constantly drawing out an old calender, namely the choice of letters, which, as you yourself have said, is already outdated, because it is probably overtaken by e-voting. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: This way you exclude people!]] It would probably have failed if we were to talk about the new solution immediately, than to pull the old one out of the hat permanently – as any demand that comes on the table several times, but always remains the same! Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: It's not bad!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e11206	Mr Scheibner spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e11227	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I will not participate in this almost DNA analysis, who is now the author of this reform. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We!]] Let us be glad that we have once again reached a consensus on an important issue of voting rights, a fair electoral right, especially for the young Austrians. I will also not ask who introduced this nonsense that we have theoretically defined the electoral age at 18 years of age, but the deadline with 1. On the other hand, there is a need for more than 80 000 elected by constitutions to be elected last time, a December election. I therefore believe that this is an important, correct, necessary correction, which will ensure that anyone who has reached the electoral age on the election day is truly eligible and can take part in the elections. Of course, it is true that this is a part of various and necessary adaptations to the right to vote – whether this is the choice of letters or something else, for example, that our foreign Austrians in particular can make use of their right of vote, which is also supported by us liberals. But you should also consider other things. For example, the most extensive direct choice of functions, such as our view, would have to be considered by the Heads of State or Government. They could be ordered in a direct election, as in many areas the mayor's direct election has already been very successful and enforced. As regards the further reduction in the electoral age, I said at the first reading that, like in my time as a youth representative, I could in principle join this call for a reduction in the electoral age to 16, but there are other opinions in this respect, with arguments which are also to be considered. But at least at local level and in terms of participation in instruments of direct democracy – popular desire, popular surveys – would definitely be superior to an age of 16 in my opinion. However, Mr Wittmann, if you already bring comparisons like that they are allowed to drive and already enter into contracts and so on – and pay taxes, then you should also argue precisely, because if you put this opportunity to complete daily business as an argument for an election age of 16 years, then you need to know that the minor who is responsible for this begins at the age of 14. [[Abg. Grade: Pay taxes!]] So: Take the right argument for the right factor and don't put it a little under the table! So, I believe, we will still have some discussions on the issue of the electoral age. I would, however, like to mention one point here, since we are always talking about the democracy and democratic fatigue of young people. We have probably been discussing these, since I was here in the House, and this has been happening for a large number of years. However, democracy is always confused with political or party political confusion! I think that young people naturally want to participate or participate in the political events in Austria, as much or just as little, as did previous generations. On the other hand – and I believe that we all, and everyone here in the House, have to consider why this is so – have really decreased and is still decreasing, is the willingness to engage in political parties. Of course you can say: Not with us! But if you're really honest and you look into your own party structures, you know that's how it is. They will see many young people in the audience in every content discussion, on issues of citizens' initiative, and on issues of subject matter, who are also actively concerned with the issue. But if you look into your own party organization, you will realize that it is becoming increasingly difficult to make it clear to young people that Austria is also a party democracy and that, therefore, for someone who wants to make a lasting and active commitment to Austrian politics, sometimes the way does not pass through a political party. In this regard, we really have a lot to do, and finally to do something to rethink our structures – and I say that this is probably true of all the parties here – also the mode of drawing up lists of candidates, including the question of how the mechanisms in the youth organisations, which all had better times in terms of their influence in politics and in the public, can be adapted to make them more attractive for young people in the future. Anyone who points out a new, right path for his party on this question has actually done a lot for the whole party political fabric! It was written to all of us and our party headquarters in the main book. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I say it again: Today is a positive day because we all, all the political groups in this House, the right to vote, have made a step forward in the electoral system.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e11285	As the next speaker, Mrs Dr Glawischnig spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e11304	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In my opinion, the maturity of democracy measures two criteria for dealing with minorities and the extent to which participation is guaranteed. [[Call to the Freemen: “Lex Glavischnig”!]] Today we are taking a step towards further participation, and in this sense it is also a positive development for our democracy. Historically speaking, it is very interesting that the active electoral age was 24 years in 1907 – but only for men, women were not allowed to vote at the time! It was not until 1920 that the women were also allowed to vote, at that time also from 24th century onwards. A great boost came in the 1970s, when the active electoral age was 19 years, which passively has been reduced to 21 years. Now we are going to take the next step in the directive, which was not only very unfair, but also constitutes a system of illegality, as other conditions for the election, such as citizenship or non-exclusion from the right to vote with the deadline and not with 1. Years of the calendar year had to arrive. – So it’s really a reason to rejoice. However, what I regret is that if you look at this historical development, the next step is so controversial. Society has changed, the young people have changed. They are much earlier able to participate in politics and also interested in politics! The steps already taken in the federal states have shown what good electoral participation results can bring an alternative age reduction to 16. In Burgenland – we have already heard it – it was over 80 percent! It is particularly noteworthy that, as studies from Germany show, precisely the election of these very young people, those between 16 and 18 years of age, is as high as those of the age group from 35 years of age. This proves the election curve. We know this curve. For those who are 18 years old, voting participation is still relatively low, and it then increases with age. But especially the very young people have a very high interest in participating. And it is extremely important to take this into account too! It is the first time, and the experiences from Germany, Graz, Carinthia and Burgenland show that this is the right way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, in order to undermine an argument by Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, we usually choose – exceptions confirm the rule – only every four years. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] - Excuse me for looking at you now, Mr Scheibner! That was probably an association with the liberals in the government. – Since we usually only choose every four years, that means that the average age of the first voters is 18 years, and not 16 years. This effect was even higher during the last National Council election. As a result of this small possibility of doing so only every four years, I think, in addition justified, it would be possible to give this generation from 16 to 20 the opportunity to participate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This generation, often referred to as the "Internet generation", is interested in politics. I believe that this must be noted that there is a differentiation between party policy and content policy. And I do not think, Mr Scheibner, that one can only make politics within parties, on the contrary. [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't say that! “Aye”!]] I consider social movements, but also that young people, like now in the Iraq war, are also going for political activities. This is a civil society that is politically active. Also associations, NGOs, i.e. non-governmental organizations, are part of political life. We should bear in mind these rights in political life. We have been fighting for a long time because NGOs also have certain possibilities in procedures. Making more involvement in politics, not only in the parties, would be an important question with which you, I think, would find a lot of recognition among young people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Should they go to politics!]] I am pleased that there is actually a majority in the National Council for an alternative age reduction to 16. I do not think it makes sense to continue the discussion about moving and delaying in the Constitutional Convention, but I would like today's discussion to be an incentive for the political groups' constitutional speakers to discuss this further step in detail and perhaps to establish a joint proposal, such as this one. A final sentence: I am sorry that the Chancellor does not attend this discussion, although we have previously talked about how important the involvement of young people in politics is, in the context of this whole generation discussion. It's a shame he's not there anymore! What I also feel is – and this is addressed to the ÖVP – that your youngest representative on the speaker's list comes first as a fourth. I am sorry that when it comes to it, it is not so serious that it is meant by “The Youth After! ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e11406	As the next speaker, Mr Lopatka is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e11425	Mr Glavischnig! I am sorry – to stick to your word – that only we have youth representatives here in Parliament, because only we of the ÖVP have three who can really call themselves young. I'm sorry! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: But don't talk!]] [[Abg. Krainer: That's what I'm saying, isn't it?]] We were all young once, but that's our fate. [[Abg. Sburny: Some... but not!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Thank God some of our group are still sitting here today. When I look at the SPÖ Group, most of them are already more gratified than I am, my colleague! [[Abg. May. Worm: Hand to heart: Say that we are old!]] [[Further calls.]] I can remember that when I was together with Klubobmann Cap and Mr. Gusenbauer at the time in the Austrian peace movement and at other meetings, we also felt that we were young. But some of us believe to stay young forever! It is not only always a matter of old age, whether you are young, but also a matter of attitude. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You say it!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Bravo!]] – I’m glad you’re there. We have no problem here with youth, not at all! For me, it is very interesting – and that is the positive again – that all four political groups agree that we are on the right road with what we decide today, that this is right and good. And like everywhere, many fathers are successful. [[Abg. Sburny: Sometimes but also mothers!]] When something is seen as defeat, it is usually an orphan. A father here is practically a mother, our Silvia Fuhrmann, who has been very committed to this change in our group. That was true, too. I do not need to repeat this, it has already been said that the previous set-aside regulation was unfair. Another comment on the electoral age reduction to 16 years: None of us, no one in the ÖVP has, as it has been suggested, fear of an election age of 16 years! But the question is always whether it is right to take this step. It is a complete miscarriage of facts, if one assumes that we are not for party political reasons. We simply do not think that it is a goal-leading and not a point of purpose. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Why?]] Nor are we stoned there, Mr Wittmann, because then all of Europe would be stoned. [[Abg. Oillinger: Sometimes that is the same!]] Where is the age of election 16 for a legislative body in Europe? Where? – The good example is, the youth here, step by step,... – Yes, we are pioneers here! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Example...!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: You can also be a pioneer!]] The first municipality to be elected at the age of 16 was in Styria, the small upper tower. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig:... legislative body!]] There was a mayor supported by SPÖ. After the election age is reduced to 16 years, we now have an ÖVP mayor. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The second municipality in Styria, with an age of 16 years, was the state capital of Graz. In Graz, we would not have increased 11 percent if we had not won above average in the youth, among the 16 to 18-year-olds! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So where it makes sense on a local level, the youth has always become clear... – It is so! [[Abg. May. Worm: See how altruistic we are!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That's facts! [[Abg. Krainer: Burgenland!]] These elections were only afterwards. [[Abg. Krainer: Burgenland! Graz was long after the Burgenland!]] It was the little Oberzering – I tell you again – where sixteen-year-olds were allowed to vote in Austria for the first time. [[Abg. Krainer: Graz was much later!]] – Before, it was Obergewering! – Let Oberzering, this small community, the joy that there was for the first time sixteen years in Austria! [[Abg. Krainer: Graz was much later!]] So: For purely party-political reasons, we could say immediately: Yes, please, age of election 16! But voting rights are not questions we should consider through party political glasses. [[Abg. May. Worm: Oh! Isn't it?]] – No, but voting rights, as we do today in an exemplary way, should be decided with a four-party agreement. That must be our goal: a four-party union, as we have done here today! If you think seriously about youth participation – and that should be our goal; I am entirely of your opinion, Mrs Glawischnig – then you have to look at what the youth wants. And there is a great difference in all the studies between what our traditional policy is and what you have mentioned, what youth understands by actionist politics. There, in the actionist field, the youth is very interested. But I now take Vienna – not necessarily a stronghold of the ÖVP, colleague Krainer, as you know as a Vienna representative: In Vienna, there was a survey of 14 000 students in Vienna. After all, 14 000 pupils have been interviewed, and the result is quite interesting: In the field of participation there was a very high approval; You know this study, too. On the question of whether they want to vote, at least 63 percent have said that they actually reject it. Now you have to ask, why? And since, I tell you, it is our task to enable participation and participation for young people in many wider areas than it has been possible so far. [[Abg. Oillinger: Why don't you let the rest choose?]] I really liked what Klubobmann Scheibner said: All parties are required to think about it – in the demographic development we have – as we also manage to do within the parties, that young people who want to join us also have the feeling of being taken seriously, and then also have the opportunity to occupy mandates – whether at local level, at national or federal level. We take young people's concerns very seriously, and there are a number of very positive examples and very good ways of involving young people. If I am already in the keyword of participation, I will also tell you the following, and you may be annoyed now – the colleague Baumgartner-Gabitzer has already mentioned it –: I really don't understand why you're against the choice of letters. If, on the one hand, I recognize that our society is changing – and a very crucial point in this change is mobility – and on the other, I would like to have as many of its voting rights as possible, then the choice of letters is, of course, a possibility that could be used massively. I call you German examples. In the elections to the German Bundestag, every fifth voters – every fifth voters! – made use of the choice of letter. On the other hand, if I look at Austria: You have authorized the election of the Abeiterkammer to vote by letter. It was 65 percent of the voters in the last election in the Chamber of Workers in Tyrol – the Chamber of Labour suffers from a massive suffrage of voters; the election there is not necessarily a model – because there was the opportunity of your side to vote by letter. At the National Council level, however, you are against it. That is completely incomprehensible to me! If you say, Let's take this step, we're going to e-voting right now, then that's anything but logical for me. [[Abg. Krainer: Did we not leave out!]] Although I'm very sure that we'll get on with it in good time. Because that would be the form of participation, which would then be used in a very massive way again by disciples, for whom it is natural to work with this medium. [[Abg. Oillingers: But they must also be allowed to choose!]] To sum up, therefore, and put to the point: Let me say that we have a better opportunity in terms of voting rights, because I do not think it – and I say so in conclusion – if, in individual elections – the last election of Vienna City Council and Country Day – the largest group are the non-electors. This was even more massive in the European Parliament elections. The first step would be the choice of letters, and it is quite, very important that we take the next step after we have decided today to reorientate the deadline by 18. You can discuss anything else. If it continues to prove itself at local level – and it has proved itself so far! – then I ask you to take the next step with us and allow the choice of letters.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e11786	The next speaker was Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e11804	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I now understand much better why it was not desirable for this subject to be discussed today in the television era, because, starting with Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, so lustlessly to present a topic, we have scrutinized arguments that do not vote at all, that speaks for itself. [[Abg. Scheibner: That wouldn't have been a television time!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You didn't watch that! Mrs Baumgartner was quite committed and objective! Actually, she was! That's something you don't know!]] When Mr Lopatka cites studies, he should not always leave out half of them. The thirteen to sixteen-year-olds, caught by this large study in Vienna, were very likely to be allowed to vote at the age of 16. The elderly have just not considered this, Mrs Fekter, and young people are not yet a programme. I can be young, but I can represent old theses. This can be seen very precisely from my colleague, Mr Fuhrmann, with her generation debate, which leads her as a sham debate against the Minister of State Gehrer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You have always had so much courage in your reforms. [[Abg. Murauer: Why are you against the choice of letters?]] They have made decisions at a high speed, such as a pension reduction reform, which is precisely the case for those young people who will receive minus 30, minus 40 percent pensions in 30 years. [[Abg. Murauer: In a sentence, tell you why you are against a choice of letters!]] I understand that you do not want to discuss this at the time of television: because the issues that young people meet, but you have nothing at all to do with the Internet generation, and this group of people has zero interest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat: There were at least 85 000 young people who, although full - age, were not eligible for election at the last election. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No choice of letters! You're preventing that!]] You didn't respond right away. It was the initiatives of the SPÖ and the Greens that made you think for months about whether you should change something at all. The pressure has grown bigger, and then you have agreed with the opposition on a four-party union. In June – much too late; we could have decided everything before the summer – the four-party request has finally been made, and today – we will of course be in this four-party request – we can decide. But you have very little interest in the participation of young people, namely the extension of participation. This has already been addressed a few times today. I see this as the first step today, and I think the logical second step must be the opportunity to vote with 16, ladies and gentlemen. And because the children's right to vote was addressed today. – This is suddenly found sympathetic by Minister Bartenstein, Mrs Gehrer. These two are anyway the biggest preventers in the education and training of young people, and now they find it sympathetic when the parents cast any votes over the heads of the boys? [[Abg. Murauer: That's it?]] But you could take an example of the Clubobmann of the Styrian People's Party. Mr Drexler is in favour of “a reduction in the age of the child rather than a reduction in the right of children”. He has found clear words in this relationship! It acknowledges the principle of universal and equal voting rights and rejects a so-called reproductive scenario. He says an election age 16 is a fresh cell cure for democracy. – This would really not harm you! This can be read on the website of the Styrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. But the ladies and gentlemen on the government bank – today it was only gentlemen; I do not know where the ladies are doing their autumn work – are now so far away from this issue that they do not want to recognize – and also you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties – that electoral age reduction, a co-determination, can also be a preventive instrument, a preventive instrument against political indifference, a preventive instrument against democracy and a preventive instrument against state indifference. I'll tell you: We can only make a stable generation contract possible if we involve all the people who live here, including the young people between 16 and 18. After all, the 200 000 young Austrians you want to exclude are because you may start to fear that this group of people in Austria might choose differently. In Burgenland it was like this: There the People's Party and the Freedom Party have not really won it in this age group, and therefore you question it and say that they may be immature or they are not at all interested. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And how was it in Lower Austria? How was the National Council election?]] [[Abg. Murauer: Why are you against the choice of letters?]] All of this could be used for adults, ladies and gentlemen. The boys are very well informed, they inform themselves about the Internet. They don't believe how fast and well-informed young people are. The boy ÖVP jumps back and forth anyway. When you said in the Bundesjugendring: We are for the election age reduction!, Mrs. Fuhrmann said shortly later: We're not for that. Somehow you are the long-ranged arm of Mr. Federal Chancellor, Mrs. Fuhrmann. Youth alone is not a programme yet. I am here with all your young people, with all the members of the Federal Government and with all the colleagues of the Government parties, because with your behaviour you really find a large group of important young voters – 200 000 – in your mind. And democracy is not a privilege of old age, democracy is a right to co-determination, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e11950	The next speaker was Mr Lichtenegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e11969	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! What we decide today – the election day is the deadline – is, I believe, an important step in the right direction, a very fair step. Today we meet a long desire for a co-determination phase of youth in Austria. It is not only in Austria, but also worldwide in such a way that today the youth phase begins much earlier. Adolescents start seizing from their parents ’ homes and develop early decision-making autonomy. I think it's an important step in the right direction, the young people who have their 18. have completed the year of life to give a right of co-determination. As a youth representative, this is one of the highlights I have experienced in this House so far, an important step for our youth. [[Abg. Oillingers: You have become very modest!]] – Yes, you will be modest in this house. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It is important to involve young people more in public life. It is also important, as mentioned earlier, to raise and preserve the interest of young people in politics and public life. I'm sure that's not easy. There are studies that only 20 percent of young people say they want to get involved in youth organisations. 60 percent of 14 to 19-year-olds see their free time as their main content. Only at the later age do they begin to think about things like politics, democracy, state, rights and duties. It is, of course, difficult to convince young people that they can in some way influence their own future. In Carinthia there has been the possibility since March to allow young people from 16 to participate in the local elections. I think this has been a successful step. In a small area where you still have the overview as a youth, it is important to be able to determine your closer surroundings. I think that will prove to be true. It is of course the question of whether it makes sense to reduce the electoral age at the federal level. It is certainly an important point of discussion. Of course, the interests of young people must also be safeguarded, and they must be given the opportunity to develop. You can't put a young man in a Formula 1 car right away, but you have to work slowly up, I think. That's important, too. [[Abg. Sburny: You don't have to put a young man into a Formula 1 car at all!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Even a young woman doesn't have to enter Formula One, nor does she have to choose! She's just supposed to have the right!]] – No, but if I compare local policy with federal policy, you can draw the comparison of Gokart – Formula 1. So we should slowly bring the boys in. I mean, that's the right way. It is safe to discuss, but I believe that in the local area, we should try to increase the number of young people involved in party-political work, that we should try to win young people for different youth organisations at local level and slowly prepare them to learn what it means to take responsibility in this state. And of course it is a first step in the new independence. This federal government is trying to educate people to a certain degree of independence. That means they should learn that the state does not do everything for them. It is also very important that you learn that already in the youth age. The young people, I think, are more self-employed than we all believe. That's why it's also important that you slowly integrate them into this process. I think it is the right way to go in Carinthia, and I hope there will still be a lot of discussion here in this House. I am glad that we are today redefining this electoral age law, this deadline, and thus giving more young people a fair and just chance to choose. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12041	The next speaker was Mrs Mandak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12059	Mr President. High house! Mr Lichtenegger! I am very pleased that you say a long wish for – how did you say? – a “co-determination phase” is about to end, and we should finally involve young people. I'm not quite sure why this should end at the age of election. We are going to make a request today, and the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party is of course warmly invited to vote in favour of it, as it has already voted in various days of the country. The problem is here, as usual with you, that once and for all you vote in this way and unfortunately have no consistent political conviction on this issue. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Lichtenegger also brought this comparison of Gokart driving and Formula 1. Apart from the fact that the local politicians will probably have no great joy with this comparison, I think both of them are waving in the circle. One of them is a little dwindling and the other is a little slower, and the Formula 1 rate is higher, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, but otherwise it's basically the same thing. It is not to be seen why sixteen years of age cannot also be included in Formula 1. You are very well able to do this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, according to Mr Lopatka's speech, it became clear to me that de facto it is not about the right to vote for the 16-year-olds, but about the choice of letters. [[Abg. Murauer: That's not bad! The choice of letters is nothing bad!]] They simply link the choice of letters with an approachful reflection on the reduction of the electoral age to 16 years. Otherwise, I can't imagine how you get to this connection. Their considerations appear to be as follows: Where can we win votes? You have said, however, that it is not possible for you at the moment to see that the electoral age is being reduced. As examples, you immediately brought municipalities where the ÖVP won when the Sixteen-year-olds were eligible for election. Mr. Lopatka! We don't make politics to think about it. Does it bring us a voice or not? This is the question: Is it possible for sixteen-year-olds to be able to take part in the vote, and we say a very clear yes to that. We don't care how these Sixteen-year-olds will vote – that's their decision, but we have to give them the prerequisite. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Wittmann has already mentioned a number of examples of young people having to take on responsibility and do so. A difference that exists for me is that not only someone who pays the tax should have a right to vote and thus also the decision on means of taxation, but of course also all those who are not yet in employment, such as students or students. It is quite strange, as the legislator so to speak, to assumes or entrusts responsibility to young people. While in the medical field it is possible to decide at 14 already: Do I want this operation or do I want it?, while 17 is possible to make the driving licence, while it is possible not only to enter into contracts, but also to make debts that may have a very long-term impact on the future, you believe that young people are still unable to make political decisions. In this age segment, we have 5.9 percent eligible for election. When it comes to giving the Sixteen-year-olds and seventeen-year-olds the opportunity to vote, it is more about 190 000 young people who are eligible for election. I ask you to: Give these 190 000 young people the chance to choose! We Greens are making a request today, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you: Support Let me ask you this question. If youth is really important to you, as you always say, you give young people the opportunity to participate not only in any small projects, but also in elections and – quite, very important! – even in popular elections, in popular surveys and in popular desires! Brackets She's not out! Not only do you speak beautiful words, but you also make appropriate policies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12132	The motion for a resolution just read by Mr Mandak, Mr Glavischnig, Mr Brosz, Mr President, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12161	Mr President, I should like to thank The question is not who is young in the EIA, but the question is how we stand on this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If you are here today alternately showing the ÖVP how youthful you are, please look in our series: Here are the boys, and there you have the old thoughts! [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] [[pointing toward SPÖ]] You have to take note of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] It is gratifying that we, together with a four-party request, are reducing the electoral age. [[Abg. Oils: We don't lower it, unfortunately!]] And you shouldn't assume any party that she only had speculative intentions. That's what everyone has. I don't know any party, nor do you, Mr. Ollinger, who says: I don't want any votes. Each party has the right in democracy to strive for voters and to ask the voters for their trust. What we are doing here is to say quite clearly that, from now on, the citizens of Austria should be able to exercise the right to vote at the age of 18. And I think that's correct. [[Abg. Oillinger: But that's a little bit!]] And now in territorial bodies such as countries and Communities underwent these 18 years are the ways that we should mention and acknowledge positively here. That is the right of these bodies! I'll tell you something else. Second: Much more important than lowering the electoral age is to inspire young people to vote, to make them vote. Look You are looking for elections in Austria and especially in other countries! Look You're taking part in the young people's election! That's his reason! This has nothing to do with the reduction of the electoral age alone! Overall, politics may have to be a little different, something different to be presented; it should be less hostile than I have always heard here. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek says that the right to vote is a matter for her somewhere in connection with the pension reform. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You will meet the boys with your pension reduction reform! That's clear! They don't have anything.]] Due to her lack of wide vision, she has today found that the pension reform would reduce pensions by 40, 50 percent to the people who retire in 30 years. – Mrs Colleague! If nothing would be done, then this danger would be given! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You don't believe that yourself!]] Therefore, if you are not going to blame the one group of conservative spirit, move yourself once! – This is also addressed to colleagues Wittmann. We decide today to reduce the electoral age, correctly. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No, no, no!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Wrong!]] Where is the entry into the election of letters, a project that we have been discussing for many years? And you are not even willing to have a proper conversation with us about it! This is a democratic vacuum! That's a shame! And that's where you should move. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am glad that this decision has come, and I would like to conclude by bringing another point of view. Not only the choice of letters is urgently necessary, but we should also consider how we can make voting times more attractive, so that people actually have the opportunity to participate in the election during their daily course. [[Abg. Krainer: This is not the task of the legislator!]] In fact, these are the challenges that we have to discuss, which we have to face and which we will have to deal with in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12316	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12334	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It is very gratifying that, at last, reason has won and young people who have reached the electoral age can actually exercise their right to vote. The fact that the government parties could join this SPÖ request in the form of a four-party request, even if delayed in time, undoubtedly deserves praise and recognition and gives reason for hope that not all that is proposed by the opposition parties will be reflexibly suffocated, but that this may also be the subject of serious conflicts. I hope that further examples will follow, even if it can be expected that these proposals will once again be ‘adopted’ by you. But if the result is right, we should be right. The reduction in the electoral age would be another reason to demonstrate cooperation and youth kindness. Unfortunately, the government parties in the committee have not been able to get through, Mr Donabauer, to join our request, which is very bad, because young people in our country continue to be told that, as the colleague Lichtenegger has explained in great detail, they are not considered to be mature in choosing their own political representation, to make the choice of who creates the framework conditions for their approaching adult life, and to make the choice of who creates the legal framework for their own lives as young people, such as school laws, labour law, budget resources for youth employment, which are embarrassing, and so on. Young people often meet before their 16th birthday. Life-year decisions of considerable scope for her further life. It is only the choice of course, the choice of profession, the possibility of making money available. They bear responsibility in partnership, and this includes, for example, responsible family planning, which does not seem to be right for all members of the government. And here, to stay on the subject, I hope that the debate about the electoral age reduction will be based on a different picture of young people than the pleasure-loving party tiger. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: We're telling Mrs Gehrer!]] - Please, direct it to her! Youth is probably no longer influential than other groups of people, but is rather highly critical of adult promises. Politics must not shy away from the critical debate with youth, but must also or must be responsible for youth. And the central means of political responsibility are elections in a democracy, and this means we must no longer abstain from young people in that country. Here I particularly appeal to the youth representatives and the youth representatives of the government parties. Emancipate from your role as a youthful fig leaf of an ultraconservative policy, and consider those who represent you! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Parent]] The debate on the electoral age reduction will give you plenty of opportunity in future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12383	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12401	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to repeat too much, perhaps to sum up a few arguments and get to the point. To the argument that the picture 16 is here again and again: You have to see the other side of the medal. The regulation we have had so far has meant that all those who have become 18 at the beginning of last year are allowed to take part in a national election with just under 23 for the first time. That's the side. Mr Donabauer has said several times that we are reducing the age of election. That is not true, however, but we are adapting the National Council election order and the other electoral orders of the Constitution. That's the point now. The Constitution states that one would be entitled to vote with 18 votes in favour. So we really cannot talk about a reduction in the electoral age in this context. If you look at the whole thing, I think the question arises when you should be able to choose on the average the age at which you should get the right to vote. In my opinion, an age between 16 and 20 is absolutely justified, even if some choose earlier. And if there's going to be some who say at 16. I don't want to vote yet, then that must be justified. Not all 80-year-olds go to choice either. Why should this be different with the 16-year-olds than with the older ones? That's inconceivable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Two things were included in the speech by Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, who voted somewhat strangely. One was the argument that it was a populist demand to demand an age reduction. – To meet a populist demand is usually to meet what the population demands to a large extent, and it is unlikely that the demand for a reduction in the electoral age will be met. The point is just: When it comes to extending rights and always focusing only on the majority, we will have problems in all policy areas. Heinisch-Hosek, a former colleague, has already said: If you look in detail at how young people express their opinion whether they want to go to a choice or not, you see, it makes a very big difference as to how old they are. It always occurs exactly the effect that those who are allowed to vote then say that those who come after me do not need to choose sooner. The Surveys among the 14 to 16-year-olds, i.e. among those who are concerned, show that in this age group there is always a majority who says they want to vote. On the other hand, I've been wondering: If this is the case, all young people don't want to vote, why do we have 80 percent higher voting stakes when they are entitled to vote? Obviously, something can't be quite right here. In practice, voting participation is very high. In my opinion, a reduction in the electoral age also means that the interests of this group are more taken into account. Especially the ÖVP as a party, which is not far from power, will agree to the need to do more for those. For this reason, too, from the point of view of the young people's representation of interest, I think it is most useful to take the next step of reducing the electoral age to 16. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Lichtenegger said: Electoral age reduction where you can see it. – That’s where I wonder where the interests lie. 16-year-olds, 17-year-olds usually either go to school or find themselves in vocational training – both subjects which can be relatively small in municipal politics, moreover can also have little influence in national politics. At this very age, things play a role, for example, in the presence service, civil service, the question of the university, of studying, which have almost exclusively federal political significance. I refer only to the German youth researcher Klaus Hurrelmann, who repeatedly emphasizes this, namely that the exclusion from the issues where one wants to participate leads to more passiveity. This means that the possibility of getting involved very early is also a protection mechanism against democratic refusal. Mr Glavischnig has also stated that the voter participation of the 16 to 17-year-olds is higher than the subsequent one. According to research it is clear that those who go to the first opportunity will choose to a relatively high degree also in the future. The chance of going to vote, the first time, is a threat to the refusal of democratic processes in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last point: Again to the ÖVP argument, which one hears again and again, namely as regards party policy in school. I really can't hear that anymore. I wonder how political opinion otherwise happens. If the 18-year-olds, 20-year-olds, 25-year-olds discuss before a election in the Beisel, then it's okay, but if you're having a discussion in school, the different positions of the parties are in class – nobody says: You have to do this or that! – then all of a sudden that is objectionable. I think that this would be exactly the quality that the school can afford to deal with democratic processes, to look at how the party programmes look at what parties stand for, in the form of project lessons, like the modern schools, how to look at elections on the level of voting participation in the elections in schools. That would be a qualitative democratic progress, not a terror, which you always paint on the wall!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12480	The next speaker was Mrs Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12501	Mr Brosz, I give you the right to say that the boys feel too little involved in the areas they really concern, in decisions which can also be directly influenced. When can decisions be directly influenced? – Not directly through a voter vote, but much more if you get the passive right to vote yourself, and this works in Austria in such a way that every party is stopped to put young people on lists. Because as a single fighter you end up frustrated, and the political stardom in Austria is in fact given to the boys. If it always means being young alone is not a program: What else, please?- Oh, my God! It is only the government parties that have representatives under 30 years of age. In addition, the SPÖ has the highest average age in a large number of Members compared with all political groups. So I wonder what the whole accusation should be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – This is the first point. The second point is: There are surveys that the people concerned say they don't want to vote yet. There are many different surveys in this area. Even the AKS, the SPÖ-near student organization, has conducted a survey that has come out of which most of those concerned do not want to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] That's something that comes out of your house, and you're telling us here that you're not taking the studies seriously. You know, it seems to me as if my mother is trying to explain to me at home what I have to do and leave. By the way, however, it is just as old as you – perhaps you can understand your behavior here against this background. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: My nerves!]] When it comes to co-determination of the younger generation, it is also important to look at demographic development, as we all know together that the target group of the seniors will always be the bigger and will soon be decisive for a choice alone. As a Burgenlander, I can say that it was quite successful that we let the young people vote at municipal council level. It is only at federal level that I cannot bring about a reduction in the age of elections if the municipalities and countries are against it. Therefore, all your country organisations and the representatives of your parties have been stopped to ensure in the countries that they are once said to be for it or against it. [[Abg. Oillingers: There is no such thing in your countries! In Vienna there is that!]] If we do this in the ÖVP and the Styria has a different position here than other federal states, this only shows that we in our party allow the discussion and discourse and that one of you will only be bound around the muzzle. [[Abg. Oils: It doesn't work in your countries!]] You've seen this at the generation debate. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, your refusal of reality was embarrassing! It was embarrassing to say that there are no conflicts between generations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: The gutters were embarrassing!]] And that your youth organizations, the young generation and the young socialists, have not even spoken for themselves, that is even the most embarrassing! But they are probably incapable, otherwise they would also be sitting in Parliament. That's the point. But you don't want to hear that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like one thing, and I believe that many young people would not be so frustrated about politics either: That we are at last talking about the positive things, because it has not been discussed at all once, what we are actually deciding, namely that at last the deadline will be adjusted to the election day. But no, you have to bring out the old flakes right away, everyone can get rid of steam again. If you have celebrated too few parties in your youth and are therefore so frustrated, Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, then you yourself are to blame.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12620	Mr Krainer is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12639	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fuhrmann, when you came to this House, you always meant that you do not want to use this old political language, but the polemics especially at the end of your speech was very old and anything other than young. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Everyone can observe that it is hot in the generation debate in the ÖVP. In the SPÖ there are, of course, discussions between generations about the important crack points, but the difference is that the SPÖ already represented those positions months ago, such as solidarity contribution for better-earning pensioners – yes, colleague stupidly, you can pick up the wallet immediately ; [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] Sorry, it was the calendar, it only looked like a wallet – or the harmonisation that the SPÖ represents in these questions as a whole party, as an alliance between young and old exactly those positions that now represent the Young ÖVP in the first place. – As much to the question as young which party is. In my opinion, this is a sign of parliamentaryism today, if a party in opposition submits a request, in any case with constitutional provisions, and the parties of the small coalition agree to this and in principle cooperate constructively on this issue. It is only a pity that such copyright disputes occur. Mr Scheibner, you don't have to do a DNA analysis, you just have to make the request that the SPÖ made in March and the four-party application over each other, and then you'll see they're equal to cover. – So much for DNA or DNA analysis that you meant you needed it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who has introduced this nonsense?]] But on this request, as important as it is – and at the beginning of the last election campaign, Mr Amon always shouted: That was my idea! , I have to say: [[Abg. Scheibner: Who has introduced nonsense?]] This idea had 85 000 last year. I can now also quote a request which I wrote in 1986 concerning this, because that is nothing new at all. [[Abg. Steibl: That's how old you are?- Oh, my God!]] So old, imagine! I was already politically active at 17, I'm very sorry, I'm 35 now, but I don't have the gray hair of you yet. I'm just saying, I'm now... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Then you just came up with it last year, as it is. I was in this house for a month and I knew it wasn't a matter of anyone having an idea because, as I said, this idea had 85 000 people last year, but it's about putting an initiative into paper, bringing it in here and making it a law, because it's not about having any ideas in this House, but making laws. And on and on, I am delighted that today a four-party request has become out of it, which is now being decided. But that can only be a step or, better said, just a first step. For example, the question of passive right to vote has been raised. Please explain to me why someone receives the passive right to vote only at age 19, where the maturity occurs at age 18. Why can't a person who's only 18, but who's full-year-old, be passive? Why can't he be elected? Or: At the Federal President's election we have at all a very peculiar construction, namely passive voting right with 35. Now it may be reasonable, and it speaks a lot of about women or men who are already mature and who already have a lot of experience in life. These may be more suitable for the office of the Federal President or the Federal President. But this is a decision that every voters and voters have to make, and not the legislator. – That’s a second question. Another question is the right to vote. Why should anyone who is allowed to work from the law and pay taxes not also be allowed to decide what happens to his tax money? Why should he not be allowed to vote in national elections, in federal elections? Or the question of the right to vote of immigrants. Why should immigrants not have the right to vote, for example for AK elections, for ÖH elections or for works council elections? That's something you keep refusing. One last point, because you always address the right to vote in the letter. I haven't been in this house for a year, but I don't know any proposal from you. [[Abg. Murauer: Will we show you!]] I have not yet seen a request from you about which one could discuss. I know there was this discussion. For this reason, there is something very similar in national elections, namely a right of choice from abroad. There is no single request. Show me the request that lies here in this house, I don't know him. Tell me the A-number, the J-number, whatever, the application doesn't exist. Let us discuss this, you can discuss everything, and above all we need to discuss the important issues, such as the reduction of the active electoral age to 16. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12736	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12755	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Who is 18 is actually supposed to choose – so is the Quintessence. Before we go there for a ranking, who was the first to submit the proposal for an initiative, I must say quite honestly, the ranking, because ultimately the federal state of Salzburg was the first federal state to make this change in the electoral rights, ladies and gentlemen. And that's what you have to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This change will affect some 1,000 young voters in Salzburg in March 2004, ladies and gentlemen, and will benefit if they exercise their right to vote for the first time. The need for this electoral reform has also been demonstrated by the fact that the following figures may illustrate that, during the last National Council election, the 60,000 young people were excluded from the election. In Salzburg, 4,000 young people were not allowed to vote. Ladies and gentlemen! It is crucial for us that the debate is, of course, also held on the reduction of the electoral age on which one is going to go, not how to reduce the electoral age from today to tomorrow. Unfortunately, the results of a youth survey with us in Salzburg have also shown that only 69 percent of young people consider democracy to be a good form of state. This shows that political awareness needs to be promoted more. This, I believe, cannot be brought about by the reduction of the electoral age, but by integrating young people into political processes, in order to take out a little emotion. There are enough forms of participation, in communities without this, even in social-democratic communities, of which I am convinced, project-related participations, as well as participations in youth forums and also parliamentary participation, such as in youth councils or youth country days. Ladies and gentlemen! In these communities, first and foremost, the conditions should be created for us to draw up topics where young people work in concrete terms. Only then can we discuss a reduction in the electoral age. Then we can also discuss whether there is perhaps a need for political awareness-raising in schools in special subjects or whether youth committees may be set up in communities or at parliamentary level. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to comment briefly on the comments made by Mr Wittmann and Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. On the one hand, you will note that the youth should also vote in the case of content debates, such as those on pension reform, and on the one hand, you put a child's right in abjection, and you think that this has been brought about by the hair. This too must remain debate culture. The youth thinks, I think, something different. We constantly consider that we need to implement legal provisions or legislative changes or legislative plans on youth. The youth – I am convinced of that – thinks differently today than tomorrow, and I think that the youth needs a corresponding free space. Let's give the young people this free space! Let us make many models of participation where they can work, and let us also raise them to future opinion and decision-makers at all operational social levels! We give you arguments why we are not for the reduction of the electoral age. I haven't heard any argument today, why you're against the choice of letters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12806	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I ask the honourable Members to take a seat. Does the rapporteur wish the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 163 of the supplements. Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Krainer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Glawischnig, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment. Since the present draft law is a federal Constitutional Act and the present supplementary or amendment proposal contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 Z 1 of the The Rules of Procedure shall determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. In view of the fact that only this one supplementary or amendment has been tabled, I would leave the draft law with the title and receipt in the version of the Committee's report, taking into account the supplementary or amendment request made by Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Krainer, Scheibner, Dr. To vote in favour, ladies and gentlemen, and taking into account the amendments made by the rapporteur. I should like to ask the Members of this House for a sign of this kind. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mandak, ladies and gentlemen, on electoral age reduction. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. 4. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 203/A by Mr Fritz Grillitsch, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Uwe Scheuch, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the flood-offering and reconstruction law 2002 and the Civil Fund Act 1996 (210 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12891	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12916	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are now dealing with the request of Mr Fritz Grillitschund Dipl.-Ing. Uwe Scheuch on a federal law that amends the flood-offering and reconstruction law and the disaster fund law 1996. Ladies and gentlemen! Undisputed is that there is no profession that depends on the weather as much as the farmer's. Extreme weather changes, caprioles, a dramatic flood situation last year – all of them were damaged in the affected areas. The dramatic pictures are still in our memory. Heuer, 2003, extreme dry damage, partly in the same areas drought. One's joy, the other's suffering, could be said. Tourism, gastronomy, beverage industry, public baths were delighted about the heat period, over the months of beautiful weather, but the farmers were and are the injured, the people in charge. There are, as dramatic as that is, regions in Austria in which extreme dry damage can be caused for four years in a row. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the harvest loss is estimated at around €300 million, and the situation in the Greenland is particularly dramatic. Dryness, feed shortages, livestock sales are the result. Overall, there is about 15 percent less income in Austria. There is a partial insurance in the case of arable farming. I deliberately say “partly insurance”, because in the case of 100% dry damage, the affected landowner, the affected farmer, can receive about 20 percent of compensation for the damage caused. In the Greenland – and this is not just the case in Austria – there is no way in Europe to insure such damage. The question is often asked: Why doesn't the farmer make insurance? He would like to do so, but so far there are no comprehensible parameters to be able to carry out such an assessment of damage, assessment in the Greenland on a secure, well-founded basis. However, I would like to thank the Federal Ministry for Agriculture and Forestry, which has launched an experimental project with the Bundesanstalt Gumpenstein, in order to perhaps become the master of this problem in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the impact of this year? – Not only in Austria there were these dramatic damage, these droughts, but also in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Ukraine and Russia. Exporters, which have so far exported massively, are likely to have to import. The stocks of cereals in the European Union have fallen dramatically, at the lowest level for 40 years. Now I wonder if it was always justified to talk about surplus. For if such a year or a second such year were to follow, then – although I do not want to paint the devil on the wall – there may be problems in the care process that I really do not want. Therefore, we should also be careful to deal with sufficient stocks. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also necessary in this area to set up a reserve and guarantee a guarantee, not only for farmers, but also to build up stocks in a sustainable way so that such problems cannot arise. It should be stressed that this proposal was unanimously decided in the Financial Committee, and I thank all the political groups for that. Finally, in difficult situations, it is proved that you stand together to help each other, just as it was last year in the case of floods. It is interesting, ladies and gentlemen, that there is €3 million on the part of the federal government and the same sum on the part of the federal states. I would like to thank the country of Upper Austria, which has announced, if necessary, to make more available. In turn, it shows how positive the policy is being made in this federal state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also ensured that only the person who buys feed and has invoices can prove that he has bought up ruffs, receives a compensation amount. This amounts to at least €150 per hectare, per holding up to €3 000 – this, so that concerns that very often the large farms would be dispersed again, so to speak, are the ones that can guide them. Overall, we will have to consider in joint work how to achieve reasonable harvest insurance even for dry damage in the Greenland area. For this purpose, the work of the Bundesanstalt Gumpenstein will certainly be worth us. to provide full and important information so that green land and other cultures, such as wine-growing, can also be included in the future. However, it is important to help quickly now. The application Grillitsch and Scheuch contributes to this. We are happy to give our group our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e12997	The next item is Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e13015	Mr President. My Not Existing Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! One can see how much interest the government has in the area of disaster protection and, above all, disaster damage. The issue is one that we can deal with in the face of an orphaned government bank. Ladies and gentlemen! I am beginning with the announcement that, of course, in such a difficult situation in this area, triggered by the drought, my group will agree to a short-term compensation, in particular because of that - and that on the comments made by Mr Auer - because we have taken care of the fact that we do not have economic support for large-scale farms in this case, but that is really where there is a need for the woman or for the man, and that is all right. I would, however, like to take the opportunity to make a little revue happen, which was still the case with the flood. In 2002, we had one of the worst floods in recent decades, even for almost centuries. A difference, ladies and gentlemen, was recognizable: We have had no problem with floods in the area of the Federal Capital of Vienna, and that is not because a reasonable administration in this state has performed flood prevention protection – and that against the votes of the ÖVP. The possibility of averting the danger from the city was thus created. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The inhabitants of Upper Austria and Lower Austria would have been happy if their federal states had done something more. We are again in a situation where there is too little for preventive protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] But I still have a second important point, and now we are on the subject of what has been done on the occasion of the flood: During the time when the rain fell here and a few government members – now they are Director-General of Banks – or the Federal Chancellor in new rubber boots have taken advantage of the opportunity to... [[Abg. May. Molterer: climate or what?]] – Climate has at least taken control of a bulge and is not only marched with media representatives and the security organs. – In this situation, the tax reform was postponed in 2003 and FPÖ was pushed into the shoes that it was responsible for breaking the government. As far as the issue of discharge is concerned, the FPÖ was right at that time, but the ÖVP was not. Costs amounted to only € 303 million. This was no reason to postpone the tax reform ad infinitum. So I am in the current discussion of this year: We are waiting so long for it to be very bad – next year we will be at the end of the European Union – and we will perhaps experience a discharge in 2005 as a mild gift. That's exactly what led to the flood disaster: One waits for the damage to occur and then tries to distribute mild gifts. The opposite is a reasonable policy: prevention, foresight and prevention! We must clearly take stronger measures to this end. For financial policy, this means using the funds in good time and not only in retrospect. Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of drought damage is only a small part of the whole question of agricultural financing. The agricultural sector in Austria also has the very important task of landscape care, and we are all aware that the “small farmers”, which under most difficult conditions are very steep, are under threat of social poverty, but are of great importance to the preservation of nature for us. I would therefore like to invite you, together with us, to consider how we can channel funding for large-scale farms with more than 100 hectares, such as in the Marchfeld, where the groundwater level continues to decline – this has nothing more to do with landscape care – partly for those people who work really hard on the school that have little money. That would be a contribution we could make. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e13064	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e13082	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter, I agree with you that the debate on tax reform will probably take place in the next few days and weeks, and you will see where there will be agreement and where not, but the issue today is support for farmers, support for flood victims. They are talking about how difficult it is for the farmers in the mountains who have farmers at the school, Mr Colleague. I may ask you to go there and look at it, because only talking about it is too little. I come from an area where really hundreds, indeed thousands of farmers “pick ” and work on mountains, and they are all admirable. And the support that we will now reach in a broad consensus is a support for these farmers and not for large farms from Upper Austria and Lower Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The topic of drought damage is very often discussed in the public. A field of tension, it is said very often. It is not always easy for the farmers, because the farmer is an eternal bitter, the farmer is an eternal recipient of promotions, and let evil voices declare: Once it's too hot for you, once it's too dry, once it's too wet and once it's too cold. Ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture is a foreign economy, and the external economy cannot be compared to other sectors in many areas. Foreign trade means that it is not a question of how late it is when you work, and foreign economy also means that it is not asked whether it is Saturday or Sunday. The policy, ladies and gentlemen, should really be the task of making long-term considerations here. Policy must be the task of ensuring that we get to grips with these problems. An approach addressed by Mr Auer is also very much discussed in the liberal peasantry, namely: finding an insurance system that implements a long-term scheme, which is also planned for the budget, but on the other hand – and this is also important – also ensures that the farmer takes responsibility for himself. Then it will no longer be possible, on the one hand, to refrain from taking part in insurance, but on the other hand, to demand money from the state, the federal government, the country or anywhere. I think that this is the right approach in the long term and will also be the long-term vision that we will be working on in the government to find a reasonable system to find a system that will still ensure these over 200 000 farms in all their diversity. Once again, Mr Matznetter: In this debate, I would warn against always dividing agriculture apart. Whether a 5 hectar or a 500 hectar operation – people who know me know, I also prefer the small farm for my argumentation – it is not good to divide, it is not good to start any fears or to build rivals for them, because agriculture will not have any easier in the next few years. With enlargement and also with regard to other parameters, enough will go to agriculture. A second area, which I would like to cut briefly in this debate today, is the history of floods in Carinthia. There were also in Carinthia floods, you know it all. A few weeks ago, parts of the Gail valley, parts of the municipality of Stockenboi and the Drautales were hit by the flood. The damage is estimated to be around €7 million. This is, of course, a sum which is not comparable to that of Upper Austria, but the individual household, the individual farm, the individual church or whatever are at least as severely affected as the victims in Upper Austria at that time. I myself was in Vorderberg and took a picture of the situation. Many others were there too, from the Minister to the head of state, and in fact everyone showed a desire to help. We, together with Mrs Scheucher-Pichler, also initiated a request at that time that we could guide these funds to Carinthia as quickly and as quickly as possible as possible. I am very glad to be able to report here – for those who do not know – that many of these funds have already flown, that the evidence has been given that a good government in Carinthia and a good government in Vienna are very well able to help quickly and unconventionally, that it has worked that it has flown help across all institutions and across all bodies, that we have proved that we can put something on our feet before the first session here in Parliament, that we have proved that we can help. The funds have arrived with those concerned, and we will, of course, also support the strengthening of these funds. We will ensure that those affected in Carinthia are compensated at least to the same extent as those in Upper Austria, because every Carinthian house, every Carinthian farm and every Carinthian church should and must receive as much money as in Upper Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e13125	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e13145	And Lower Austria, of course! Lower Austria has also received some of the additional flood money, and I think that was very good and very correct. Floods in August last year have had a dramatic impact on large parts of the population in several federal states. Parliament then adopted a unanimous decision on this special budget of €500 million; € 250 million for personal, private damage to Hab and Gut, € 250 million for infrastructure, agriculture, forestry. That was right, even though it now turns out in retrospect that, on the one hand, the estimates were slightly overstated, to say it discreetly – it was from 3 to 7 billion, that is no longer the point – and that, on the other hand, the distribution between infrastructure and personal possessions and good did not agree what we are going to correct today. In the post-examination, however, a few questions arise, and I would like to take two of them out. In view of the situation in autumn or winter last year, it was simply not possible to discuss budget allocations, because it was primarily about questions of existence and the distribution of funds, it is now, after the budget allocation is essentially completed, I think, but the time to consider it a little more precisely. I would like to take one point, and this is about the fact that the Federal Government has doubled the donations that came in at the ORF-benefic event for the flood victims. This means public money, and it is about 18.2 million euros, that is, quite a substantial amount. Apart from the €500 million emergency aid, a lot of donations have also been paid to the various regions – that was also very necessary – and the question arises over and over again: How will these private donations, which have been doubled by the Federal Government, be distributed? We have put a question to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who said last year that these private donations are centrally coordinated and that this is also controlled. The answer to the question is not satisfactory, and I believe that we still need information. The Federal Chancellor answers the question who will now control that he is no longer responsible. In his reply to the question, he says he is not responsible. The same question to the Minister of Finance, the following results: This is coordinated by the Flood Soforthilfe, and these € 18.2 million will be charged separately from the Flood Soforthilfe, in relation to the Federal Chancellery. – That is to say, there seems to be an agreement that these funds are charged that there is some control over them, namely at the Federal Chancellery, but the Federal Chancellor knows nothing about it. The Minister of Finance also says in the same response that the working group has rejected the control. – And this just rejected control is to take place at the Federal Chancellor? So anything can't be right there. We'll probably go after what happened to these 18.2 million €. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second essential question is: In the future, how will we ensure that similar natural events do not lead to such an impact as was the case last year? In my opinion, discussions on this need to be held at both national and federal level. However, I still see relatively few approaches to how this will be resolved in the future. In the area where I am at home, namely in Langenlois – that area, which was, so to speak, one of the main areas concerned, namely, the Katastral municipality of Zöbing, where the camp flows through, which has swept away the whole place – I have to note that what is happening along the camp is little forward-looking. First of all, all the trees have been wooded. All those who have already worked on what is called regeneration and what would be necessary to bring such floods into orbit – you can't stop them anyway – know that this is exactly the wrong way. In this context, I would like to point out a Tyrolean project, which has also been supported by the Ministry, namely the Grossache project. Some of you will know it; it is a pattern project when it comes to regeneration of a river. There were no such catastrophic effects on the Grossache last year – not only because the rainfall was lower, but because it was just made sure that there was a proper regeneration, a forward-looking, preventive flood protection. This project has been implemented by the Greens under the then state councillor Evelin Lichtenberger, so it makes sense when there are green councillors. However, one has to say that this has been done in absolute cooperation with the Ministry – something where there are more problems today. What's this about? – to take the example of projects such as those on the Grossache for the regeneration of other rivers, for example the Camp, in order to direct floods to that extent as much as possible in the previous year, as far as possible, in the sense of the environment, but also in the sense of the people affected by this disaster.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e13213	The next speaker was Mr Schultes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e13231	Mr President. High house! A recent weather report from my home community: 13 millimeters after seven weeks of precipitation-free. – You will understand that I have a lot to say on the topic of drought aid. First: I would like to thank all the political groups for deciding on the sum of €3 million – through retransmission and new resources – and I am particularly grateful to all the federal states and country leaders who will double these funds. If the European Commission does sometime with the notification, I will also be grateful to the European Commission for giving us permission to help. Ladies and gentlemen! This drought after the catastrophic flood last year must be a little thoughtful for us. There are those who say that weather is just weather, and the others who say we are affected by climate change and should think about it. Somehow, we shouldn't be kidding with it. It has already bothered me a little that Mr Matznetter, just colleague, has taken such great words in his mouth so easily. The fact is: If we talk farmers about care, then we mean that we run the Humus economy, that we allow detention rooms. Perhaps Mr Matznetter should take a look at this: Just one of the largest businesses in Austria, namely the good Count Hardegg in Seefeld-Kadolz, actually protects the whole region with its large retention building and has done something good for many. You don't always have to go to the big ones, you can also say thank you sometimes. We should consider how we can develop the measures in agriculture ourselves. We have the public for this, and we have put in place many measures in this environmental programme to improve the water retention capacity of the soils. We've been thinking about whether we can take care of it. I am the chairman of the beekeepers and can say that after the last disastrous year in which we had floods and droughts, we have tried to establish a dry damage insurance on a private economic basis. We do not find a reinsurer who would be willing to share and carry this risk, and without a reinsurer, because of the high climate risk, there is no insurer who concludes an insurance. That is to say, we must call on the EU to find a European solution on the issue of comprehensive crop insurance, otherwise we can leave agriculture alone with the risk in the time of narrow margins and the scarcest profits, and ultimately the effects can be terrible. I come from the Marchfield, and I was particularly angry that Mr Matznetter was talking so fluently about the groundwater level. We have decided unanimously on the Marchfeld channel project and therefore the situation is very well handled. I can say that due to the catastrophic rainfall last year, we have a groundwater level like at the end of the 1970s. I can say to Mr Matznetter about the "toll" achievements of Vienna's flood protection, which is classic red policy: Behind me the flood! There are also people living away from Vienna, and the fast-flowing water through the Vienna flood protection has put Marchfeld at risk as never before. The water level on the Danube was about 40 centimetres in front of the dam top edge. The next priority of our work will be to also create security for this area. Ladies and gentlemen! The drought aid we are now offering to farmers is just a drop on the hot stone, but it is intended to help prevent those farmers who have been particularly damaged from placing their livestock on the market, so that no meat price decline occurs and no damage to all the other farmers who have not been damaged by this drought. It is a good measure, but it may not be enough from the volume. I have to tell you that in the wine district we have damage in the crops that only now show up in the harvest and that the really terrible and catastrophic and individual farmers are likely to be existential, because they are productive cultures. We'll have to talk about it. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] In conclusion: I was glad that Mr Matznetter spoke about the school. But to what he said, I can only say: As a farmer, I am talking about the School and my Earth, and when Mr Matznetter is talking about the School, he should continue to think of a flat fish, and I would recommend to the Lord of the Barolo Group Chardonnay or Grey Burgundy as a supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e13298	The next speaker would be Mrs Trunk. 2 minutes remaining speaking time. Do you want to start now, and I'll interrupt you, or later? [[Abg. May. Trunk: Afterwards!]] Then I'm going to interrupt the meeting until the call of the urgent ones. The sitting was suspended. [[The sitting was suspended at 14.59 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.]] Mrs Eva Glawischnig's urgent request, ladies and gentlemen, to the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture on education offensive rather than flat-rate diffamation of young people (211/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e13337	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 211/A (E). [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: (on the SPÖ ranks) The interest is not very great for a urgent person! It cannot be so urgent if no one is interested in it!]] As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e13607	Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer is present and I now ask Mrs Dr Glawischnig to speak as an applicant for the reasons of the urgent request. Your speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e13625	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Hardly a fall has begun at the Austrian schools and universities as sad as this. And that means something – in the negative sense – because the educational landscape in Austria has been hit by many savings packages in recent years. But now the situation is worse; the hourly cuts are going through. Especially the music-creative open objects and the focus on the schools have been shortened. And in addition, the help cry from the universities about the budget emergency, which leads to the search for sponsors for computer systems or for cleaning activities. – So a very sad situation! The Federal Minister for Education, Mrs Elisabeth Gehrer, remains quite unimpressed. It remains rather cool and executed, without allowing itself to enter into or continue any discussions, a very, very hard saving course, which has been set by Minister of Finance Grasser, without in any way addressing educational innovation or the urgent need for investment. That may seem incomprehensible. But I'm trying to get into the logic of the Minister of Education and I'm wondering: Why does it remain so unimpressed, so cool and above all so inactive? To bear government responsibility is primarily to bear responsibility. [[Abg. May. Molterer: To do this, one must have the courage and not stand half way!]] But she remains inactive. Why? – Your answer is a very strange one. It is convinced that the future of a country is obviously less in education policy, but that the future will be secure if a country has children. - That's the answer. For this political goal that this country has more children and thus has a future, it moves through the country. It also believes to know why this country has so few children, why the future is supposed to be threatened, and there is remarkable evidence. She is of the opinion that the young people and the young women in Austria would be so few children because their values are not those they should have: because they run out from party to party because they have chosen single life as a value for themselves because they are seeking apartments in Ibiza and Lech et cetera – but not the value that the minister so much likes to get children. And on this matter a debate is required, and that all of it means “debate of values”. On this “unsense”, I now say under quotation marks, a debate on values is required, and then one complains that this debate is not being held and is rejected as a topic of a value discussion. Mrs. Minister! I ask you: What's actually going on? Your understanding of office? What is your understanding of a political responsibility as Minister of Education that you lead this crucifixion, this “value crucifixion”? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I thought that would have ended. I thought this flat-rate qualification of youth would have been a slipper in the summer hole, in the summer break. But no, you don't stop, and on Sunday in the “press hour” you re-enacted: The central issue of the future – and therefore you will worry – is to inform young women in Austria that they may have more children, then the future will be secure. This unprecedented thematic error is remarkable in two ways. On the one hand: One can very well have a value discussion about the generation contract, about a public side, about a private side of the generation contract. There are interesting questions, distribution problems et cetera. But on the other hand, you are solely on the point of view that the older generation has fulfilled the generation contract – which obviously contains only one point for you, namely to have children – and the young generation does not think of fulfilling it. – This is so superficial, so short-sighted and so unfair to the youth that I must say that I am personally concerned that you do not want to see it and do not descend from this discussion. A value discussion on the topic of the generation contract would have been an interesting debate, but you have this through this hair-driving nonsense, through this return to a family image, to a value discussion that, I believe, Austria in 21. No longer deserved by the century, completely impossibility. I think we could put something out of dispute – and I would ask you to do so in detail – today and also in the future: There is something like a private side to family planning. The principle of self-determination applies when it comes to deciding whether or not to start a family. And someone who does not want to do so also fulfils his obligations as citizens. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Muttons.]] This is a highly personal decision – and no obligation of citizens. [[Abg. Amon: Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig, that didn't question anyone!]] I think if you want to discuss the future of the country, there are really other topics for this: 80 percent of women actually want children, want to start a family, but only 45 percent of 15 to 45-year-olds do so. This separation between reality and the idea of a wish also has causes, and these are the conditions – not the party, not the domicile in Lech or Ibiza. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's exactly what Gehrer asked! That is exactly the question of the Federal Minister!]] The art of politics is not to moralize and rise in appeals, but to tackle the corresponding design precisely of these framework conditions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Only, Mr Molterer: We are still miles away from an ideal image, namely a partnership sharing of care obligations! And: These appeals, which would threaten the future, do not create any additional support. The situation is known; in Austria, for decades now, we have a dramatic situation: In Lower Austria, children can only get a care place from the third year of life, in Vorarlberg only from the fourth year of their life. There are massive complaints about quality. This should be an educational institution – it is the first educational institution. There is massive dissatisfaction with the opening hours, and there is absolute incompatibility with the profession, even with part-time occupations. And we know that part-time jobs, especially for women, lead to poverty very quickly. – No shelter is created by such moral appeals! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The share of Father's care of two percent is not improved either by these statements; it is embarrassingly little in the international comparison. Members from other countries, such as Denmark or Sweden, often ask the question: Why is this so in Austria? Why do so few fathers use this choice? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What is your suggestion?]] [[Abg. Lens: “Men are forcing!”]] Why Speak Are you making moral appeals, without pointing to the most important argument, namely the question of women's incomes? – The difference today is no less than a cent. Instead, the distribution of income has evolved even further since 1999, since 2000 since the Federal Government adopted its measures. At no time will this income scrape be smaller! Women are still punished when they choose a family. – These are the things we should talk about – and not about Lech and Ibiza! It is also a shame that, although child care places or the right to part-time work are things that have been discussed for a very long time, the Federal Chancellor has become an announcement chancellor and that his statements in Parliament are almost identical with Sunday speeches as regards their actual effectiveness. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The right to part-time, announced by Federal Chancellor Schüssel in the last election campaign – at the time in the ORF “press hour” still with the nice promise: “the right to part-time for mothers”; I remember well – is now cited as the new solution as the result of the generation discussion. – This is really a witness of poverty! The right to part-time is now to be introduced for companies with more than 50 employees. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: 20! 20 employees!]] They now introduce with the right to part-time – which is not, in any case, a real right, but only a arbitration court and so on – even if a two-class society is introduced to the families. This is completely incomprehensible to me! Federal Chancellor! I think if you put your truths in a connection with time, then you can say: The truth is a daughter of the time, and the right to part-time is at least not a truth. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lens:... I don't know!]] What I would like to say, Mrs Federal Minister, is your emotional distance to the rhythm of life, to the situation of young families and young women. There are also empirical studies that can be read if one cannot get involved in such situations. I would like to read to you: Almost every seventh working mother – which is 15 percent – indicates that she cannot survive with her income. It is, I believe, a logical consequence of the fact that when women choose children, they have a worse career, that they have a worse pension – even worse by their pension model – and that they have a dramatically lower life income. Women also see the future as pessimistic: Already among women without children, 25 percent fear that their pension will not be sufficient. And they are right: At the moment, only four out of ten women have an independent pension. 31 percent – this is almost a third – all mothers believe that their age insurance will not be enough for life. Don't you scream the alarm bells? Don't you feel that you insulted these people in some form when you accused them of Lech and Ibiza and the noise from party to party? Are you so far away from the reality of life? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There would, of course, be a lot of responsibility in your own area of responsibility, which would be possible to improve the situation both in the family and in the educational field. There is now again a discussion of all-day school forms, as the Greens have been demanding for years, initiated by “innovative” politicians from the Styria – under quotation marks. Now you have finally given up and are ready to talk at least about the care at the schools in the afternoon. But that's not it. It is essentially about looking at innovative, educationally innovative all day school systems at least once. And then you can still get some help from Interior Minister Strasser, who is so uninformed by scratch and who operates such a white polemic that I have the hair to the mountains! He claims, in the proven pattern of the ÖVP, that all that is taking place in Germany is social-democratic politics, and that is bad, that is red-green Germany and so on; and he goes on to say that all day schools are one of the great failures of social-democratic politics in Germany, which has led to disintegration, anonymization and vandalising young people in the big cities. – What he has forgotten: There are no all day schools in Germany! Only three percent run their schools all day. [[Abg. Hornek: Mrs. Colleague, why? Why?]] In Germany, because of the shock caused by the PISA study, all day schools are being discussed, because in the Scandinavian countries, so many models with full-day forms of school are characterized by the education system there – compared to Germany. So in Germany one is now discussing this, but there is no such thing as it is. [[Abg. Lens: And why isn't she?]] And as far as the vandalising young people are concerned, this is again a flat-rate diffamation, also at the expense of the young generation, which is clearly a universal principle of this federal government. All day school forms, Mrs. Minister, have nothing to do with afternoon care, but it is about creating a pedagogically meaningful whole. I would suggest that you read what your colleague, Professor of the University, Bernd Schilcher, writes in Styria. In a very beautiful article in the “Small Newspaper” he compares how on the one hand an Austrian Hans who lives in the Obersteiermark, has to drive 16 kilometres to the school, and once at 1 pm, once at 2 pm and perhaps at 4 pm, whose mother is active and who finds one note at the kitchen table – and on the other side John in Bradford in a full day school and a Jean in France. This is really very readable, and I think that should be done without ideological scams, but only according to the criterion, which is the most educationally valuable for our generation of children. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another problem in which you clearly ignore your own task – based on your “important value discussion” – is the question: What is the central criterion for education? – We also have some worrying figures which show that children from well-off families continue to make higher school degrees than children from less well-off families, that parents’ education still has a very, very large share of the education level of children and that Austria is internationally at a disadvantage here. [[Call the ÖVP: That's clear anyway!]] It must be imagined that, in Austria, 80 percent of the children of academics are in school, while in people with compulsory schooling, only 10 percent of the children are in school! – I think that would be a point where one could intervene with a reasonable generation discussion, which also aims at generation-righteousness within a generation, also between young people. Not only is it about young people against old, but it is also about the private side of the generation contract and about distribution issues, which are among the key challenges. Mrs. Minister! One of the problems you have been ignoring for years now – if you do not want to look at school – is, of course, the Austrian universities. I think you can't cry so loud at all to be heard by you at all, because the emergency that is now spreading is already internationally registered as remarkable. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Go! You weren't in Berlin yet!]] We also find comments on the situation at the Austrian universities in international newspapers. Here, too, it has a remarkable effect on the subject that should exist in school, I believe, according to Grasser and Prinzhorn, to a much higher degree, according to the motto: The orchid compartments away, and marketing as the main subject! What Minister Grasser promised in his budget speech can no longer be understood with calculations, but it can only be understood with marketing, a plus of half a billion € – which is not found in the budget! I still think calculations are extremely important. Above all, these fully announced statements, which we have heard again today, that so much more will be invested in education and universities, will in no way satisfy the emergency situation. I would have expected you, in response to the rectors and their proposals, to put in some way an emergency package for the autumn. But here, too, you do not listen, you are deaf to these problems of universities. At least €100 million is missing to maintain the running operation, and you know all the consequences that this has: Retirement of research, especially of researchers, abroad. – These are things that throw us back miles away on our way to the great goal of making Austria’s universities into top universities. As far as research is concerned, we know that the FWF is 20 percent lower than in the previous year. That's dramatic! 1 900 researchers in the Austrian research landscape depend on this. This is the source of research funding for the Austrian universities! Approximately 500 to 600 jobs are approved, but not occupied. The only thing you are doing now as the Federal Government is to anticipate the budget of the next year – which basically postpones the problem only for a quarter of a year, but does not solve the basic problem in any way, namely the ignorance of the need for an active educational offensive at universities. The discussion could now continue in many areas, Mrs. Federal Minister. It is not only the Greens, and it is not only the opposition that repeatedly points to these problems, but also international comparisons. The last OECD study on the academic rate and the research rate in Austria is also an alarm signal that you have consistently missed. Austria still has one of the lowest academic rates in all OECD countries – and the OECD is not only Europe or the EU, but there are other countries in it. I think with this academic ratio of just 14 percent we already have a very bad starting position. But the bad thing is: It doesn't change! The situation will not change as soon as further access barriers – the “tuition fees” keyword and so on – are built up. The beginners have also ceased to be. The Scandinavian countries have a very, very high university entrance rate and also have a lot more academics, and they also have – well known – very good economic data and a very thriving, wonderful research landscape. We are already at the next black hole, namely at the research rate and in the field of research policy. – I am sorry that I now have to present this in such a rapid sequence. But there are so many failures, Mrs Minister, that I can't spare you to listen to all this again in all his drama. We are also far behind this 2.5 percent of GDP in the research quota. The funds were even reduced, and with the need at the universities, the budget resources of the universities, the own resources in this area are also reduced. I think that if we have set an international goal of finally reaching this 2.5 percent, then the usual government declarations are not enough – is Sunday's speeches – but we need a clear budgetary priority, a clear priority of research funding in the Austrian budget. – The consequences of the lack of such a set of priorities are disastrous, we know. Mrs. Minister! I would like to make one last point, which is also related to the generation discussion, something that would also be your main responsibility and where international comparisons are very interesting, if you look at it more closely, namely the different pay schedules of Austrian teachers. We clearly only have a central criterion here, namely age. The difference between entry and maximum levels in Austria is as high as in hardly any other OECD country. There are also other models: One can also take things into account, such as special training, and consider different system of allowances, or also the qualification of teaching in several subjects, or special tasks which are carried out. You can pay for all this, just: You don't. The only thing Austria honours in the school sector is getting older right now. This pay schedule is not fair, no one will be able to seriously claim that the benefit is 140 percent higher than at the beginning of the career, and it does not make sense either. It also makes no sense for economics to: The money is not there for the younger people, especially if you need it, and in the later period of life, it migrates mainly to the savings accounts and increases the savings ratio. The difference between entry and maximum cover is 242 percent – this is absolutely unique internationally. Absolutely unique! There is no such thing in other countries. I think if you want to contribute something, then take care of your own area of responsibility! Government also means taking responsibility – and as an educational minister, you have a lot of responsibility, especially for the young generation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to ask you, particularly with regard to the Austrian women, to the young women, to spare us with a debate on values à la ÖVP! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e13892	Mrs Bundesminister für Bildung, Wissenschaft und Kultur Elisabeth Gehrer spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e13916	Mr President. High house! This urgent request, made by the Greens, is for me a shocking example of how fundamental discussions are misunderstandingd, turned around and misinterpreted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Go!]] [[Abg. Oil: Yes!]] They write in this urgent request that I would have made a “pauschal diffamation of young people”. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's right!]] I'm going to point this out. Ladies and gentlemen! A discussion on the future of a country must also include the question: How many young people will enter the work process as well-trained workers in the future? [[Abg. Riepl: But right now they are unemployed!]] How many young people will be paying into the pension funds in the future to make the payment system work? This is an important discussion for the future of a country. If German Chancellor Dr. Schröder says: We have too few children!, then the opposition in Germany says he is having a serious discussion. If the Austrian Federal Government is thinking about it, you say that is a diffamation of young people. I really don't understand your contentious attitude! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I will show you very clearly and clearly that our education system is a very good one. I do not understand this your desire to present this education system publicly as a bad one in all areas. [[Abg. Oillingers: Not in all areas!]] On all your requests you have made here, you can say, if you consider them individually, that they have either been treated or will be implemented in the near future or are not necessary. That's really how it looks! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sburny: We would like this to be more detailed!]] I would like to go through the various areas you have mentioned, Mrs Glawischnig. First: Service places. – The care of children is an important political concern for me. The Federal Government has set standards in the promotion of families in order to envy us from other European countries. With children's allowance, with the possibility of pension-based child-birth periods, with the possibility of deducting periods for the care of children from the calculation period for the pension, we have created improvements for women who did not exist so early at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There is a wide range of childcare facilities in the individual federal states, but you are persistently stifling on the day-to-day kindergartens. I'll tell you: There are different models, such as day mothers, crab tubes and other facilities that have to be considered everywhere. Schooling is a serious concern to me, and that is not an ideological question at all. Where care is needed, one should offer them. It's that simple! All day schools, which you think so insanely important, can already be offered anywhere where parents and teachers decide to do so by a two-thirds majority. I want the freedom of choice for the parents! That's my concern! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to continue to leave it to schools in their own right, whether lunch and care are necessary or not. They want to establish compulsory all day schools throughout Austria. In my opinion, this is the wrong way! In any case, with extended childcare, we will try to create 10,000 additional childcare places in schools by 2006, which is an increase of 20 percent. I will invite those responsible for this, the municipalities and the countries, to a discussion round. We will make a status survey, then raise the need, and, of course, we will provide the necessary funding from the federal side – these are five lessons per group that are cared for, ten hours of care – in the 2005 and 2006 budgets, because our children deserved to get the best care – either through the family or through the school! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Also, the claim that you are constantly making that children from socially weaker families have no chances is simply wrong. Read the OECD study! It can be read that in the Nordic countries, but also in Austria, the relationship between family prosperity and student performance is relatively weak. [[Abg. Sburny: It can still be worse!]] Of course, everything is for us to help the students who do not have such good start conditions: with differentiated lessons, with funding hours. I should like to point out that 15 percent of all posts in the school sector are available for funding. In this way we support the young people who have a little harder in life who are doing something harder. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say to you on your further remarks, where you are complaining of a decline in educational innovation in Austria and a decline in investment in education: I really ask you to read the OECD study once! We spend $6 500 a year for primary school, i.e. for primary schools. The OECD average is $4,300. Yes, please, who's going to spend more? That's clear: Austria is spending more! We spend $8 500 a year for the 10- to 14-year-old students. The OECD average is $5 900. So this one is far below! In the tertiary area we spend $10 851 per student. The OECD average is $9,571. So we are everywhere above the OECD average. That means: We invest a lot in our schools, in the buildings, in teacher training and in quality in schools. A very special task of the Future Commission will be to define performance standards so that we can give all young people the right opportunities so that we know – after 4. ==References====External links== Class primary school, after the gymnasium – at what level the parents and the children can rely on. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the field of universities and research is concerned, it is really sad that you simply do not want to take note of some things. I emphasize: It has never been spent in Austria as much for research as this year! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to prove this with numbers: In 1993, €2.3 billion was spent on research, now, ten years later, it is € 4.3 billion. We've invested enormously. We will create the National Fund, from where funds will flow into research. In addition, the FWF has been increased to € 100 million. The President of the FWF himself says that there are no problems with financing the upcoming projects. In the university area, the same game appears annually at the beginning of the semester; You can track this in all the newspapers, ten years back. I mean, we should deal with the universities more objectively. We should put their achievements in the foreground. We should point out what enormous commitment is needed in order for universities to be transferred into the new law, which enormous achievements of the rectors, starting from 1. October are in office, will be provided with the enormous services provided by the employees at the universities. I was recently in Germany at a FernUniversität Hagen event and can report the following: The State Secretary there has stated that the Austrian University Law 2002 is a illustrious example of how the universities became independent in the 21st century. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The universities have a budget of €1.5 billion this year, and a total of €1.7 billion is available next year. I have agreed with the Minister of Finance that the implementation costs and the personnel costs that arise will be paid up to €15 million in addition, and this will be done this year. The technical universities also receive the necessary funding. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, I'm saying: We should be proud of our education! We should be proud of our teachers and those who work at the universities! We should also give the young scientists the necessary back cover from politics to those who are involved in research! [[Call to the Greens: Genau!]] But together we should try to make everything even better in order to maintain this good level that we now have in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e14137	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Brosz is the first speaker to speak. Preferred speaking time: 7 minutes. Legal speaking time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e14162	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister for Education! I would like to return to your counter, which you have made regarding the accusation of “punchal diffamation”. We looked at this: In the Duden, it reads: “Vulnerous evil. ” And I remain with all determination. “The defamation of evil” means “diffamation”. If one repeatedly accuses the boys that the meaning of life is exclusively in a party generation and that it cannot be the meaning of life to have a holiday apartment in Ibiza and a residence in Lech, I say: This is simply a diffamation, given the situation of young people in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, it always depends on who you are in contact with. I have two small children, and there is a lot of contact about the kindergarten with parents who deserve far less than a national council member, and they also occasionally discuss Ibiza and Lech, but above all they discuss whether they may be able to afford a holiday once a year, whether they can do some leisure activities in view of the situation in which they are stuck. I think that – I’ve already let this be done through the media on Sunday after the “press hour” – or sometimes feel you’re sitting at the minor square, over it is a huge cheese bell, and what’s happening in life’s reality outside is simply not perceived by you. [[Headshake and ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] I mean, a politician or a politician with a minister's income can easily talk about a second residence in Ibiza and about a domicile in Lech. If you are entitled to a political pension, which is also in the order of €13,000, you can also talk about it. But I would also like to say something about the conflict of generations among politicians: Here too, we could have talked about why it must still be so that this completely unjustified situation remains upright. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What about the university professor who has 100 percent pension claim?]] We have already made it clear to you several times that there is no explanation, in particular, for young people, that there is a system in Austria, according to which political pensions still exist among old politicians, which are a multiple of the average salaries of the Austrians. It's not argumentable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: How's Van der Bellen?]] I now come to all day schools. There is now a discussion about this, which unfortunately is already paralyzing. One thing is clear: It is a difference between an afternoon care and a full day school. You can argue as you like, freedom of choice means simply and simply that you can't do all that is pedagogical in a whole day school, namely to make the day course different, namely to get away from the succession of 50-minute units. Mr. Dr. Haider, the PISA-Study-Maker, said in the teaching committee that one would actually have to go to the head if one considered that one taught in the elementary school in successive 50-minute units. No one would do that in the field of adult education. But this is still reality in Austria's schools. If you say there should be an afternoon care for those who want it, so for those whose mothers obviously don't have the opportunity to care for the children at home, then I must answer you: Then there will be no change in this situation! Then the students will continue to be taught in such blocks until noon. Then there will be a few thousand places more where students can be cared for in the afternoon, but this has been done with modern pedagogy, with what you practice especially in the Scandinavian countries, with a change of learning phases and relaxation phases, with project lessons in schools, with the possibility of getting funding in schools simply and simply doing nothing. I'm just telling you one more thing: To make at least this small step possible, we will now see how you deal with it. I put forward a motion for a resolution in which we ask for nothing other than what you promised in the press hour. This is, in our opinion, too little, but ten thousand places are certainly not enough, but we will see if at least that is being fulfilled. I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Let us see if at least that is possible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I now come to the point that now the government itself is not really far away from organizations such as the Austrian Institute of Family Research – I am just saying: At the time, Mr. Schattovits, on behalf of the Austrian Institute for Family Research, has prepared the feasibility study on child care benefits, which you have repeatedly quoted – exactly the opposite of what you say here, as an opinion. The findings on the social problem, the quotations made here by Mr Glavisch, all come from this study, and it is shown that the proportion of those parents who have a high education degree is much higher in terms of education than the proportion of those students in whom this is not the case. You point to the PISA study, and you are actually making a comparison with Scandinavia. I have the PISA study here, you're probably going to have it in the ministry too, I suppose at least. There is an Austrian PISA study, in which the ten most prosperous member countries of the European Union are compared, and there are broken down – you can look at it carefully, it says on page 94 – the results of the children after their parents' schooling. The difference is 40 points for advanced countries, such as Finland, countries where funding is put in place, between children whose parents have compulsory schooling, and children whose parents have an academic degree. 40 points are about one performance element in the PISA study in the five-part scale. In Austria we are more than 90 points, which are more than two categories of performance. But you say this difference does not exist. They keep saying it doesn't exist. I think that this is one of the central tasks of education policy to take action. As a politician, we can really fully compensate for the different educational opportunities in no country in the world. There will always be a difference between the academic origins of parents, between the prosperity of parents, between what parents can afford, and how the children pursue their further education. But there are countries, such as Finland, such as the other Scandinavian countries, where targeted measures succeed in reducing this difference – and that is what policy is all about. But you have been refusing this for years and simply saying that it does not exist. By the way, this is the biggest accusation I make to you as the Minister of Education, namely that you ignore the social problems in Austria's schools. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, a sentence on all the things in which you always present the argument of voluntaryity. I would like to ask you the question: What do you mean afternoon care for those who want it? Does this mean, afternoon care for those whose parents can afford it, because it has to be paid? I would also like to consider: What do you think about what social consequences this will have?- Oh, my God! Who will be able to afford to give the children several thousand schillings, as it was once, or several hundred euros a month, as it is now, in the afternoon care of schools? – This is again a question of whether it is calculated, because it will not take place at the moment when the merit from the professional practice flows into the care of the children. The task here is therefore to make a socially just policy, but to neglect this task. She's been here for years.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e14265	The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Brosz, Mr President, on 10 000 additional places for afternoon care in Austria's schools is properly signed and supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Amon, who has approved a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e14286	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! But above all, Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig! I listened very carefully to your speech. They have accused the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs of defaming young people on a flat-rate basis; You have accused her of being cool and inactive; and you have accused the Federal Minister of Justice of having no idea of the situation of young people. I would like to say clearly that, with Elisabeth Gehrer, we have a very experienced woman at the head of the Ministry of Education, who is a multiple mother and grandmother, who, in no doubt more difficult times than today, has proved the compatibility of family and profession that is successful in the profession and which, I believe, does not need a qualification of this kind at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'd like to tell you something else. Someone who co-connects to run for the highest office in the state should be much more sensitive in assessing such things than you do! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If we also have a debate on the issue of the generation treaty and the issue of gender equality, it is very important to see both sides, namely, the boys who sometimes have legitimate concerns about whether they are sufficiently provided for in old age, but on the other hand not to overlook those people who are directly before retirement or are in retirement. I think it is an important debate that is being held here, and I think it is an important debate that we are not talking about whether it is automatic kidnapping that young people have to do today when they choose a child, but rather that it is very probably a question of value. The question is: Do I decide to have a child? This is not a question of relinquishing, but, from my point of view, it is also very much about the question of evaluation: Is that worth more than possibly anything else? This debate is exciting. We should have this debate, and I think it's very... please, Mrs Mag. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Then why aren't you at home?]] Prammer? [[Abg. May. Prammer: I just wanted to know why you're not at home then!]] I can tell you – I hope you see it, I say it now, not at all – I am becoming a father, and I look forward to it! I can tell you that. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman, as well as the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Bravo! Will you go to Karenz?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] This seems to me to be important, and I believe that, as a People's Party, we have taken this issue very seriously, particularly in connection with the pension reform. Since the Greens are today presenting a motion for a resolution, a urgent request, I would like to deal with the various points, in particular those which deal with the school sector. I will prove to you that, basically, all the points you are making here – as the Federal Minister has already done – are either already at work or are done at all. It is similar to the motion for a resolution that you have tabled as the second, and it is also very funny that you have tabled a motion for a resolution which says exactly what the Federal Minister has already announced that it will happen. [[Abg. May. Posch:... agree!]] [[Abg. Broukal: Accept!]] I don't understand at all; You might also want to think about having your own ideas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's nice that you're actually confirming the correctness of this measure. That is precisely what the Greens consider to be right, the Federal Minister announced last Sunday in the press hour. [[Abg. Brosz: Then everyone will agree!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Will you agree?]] I come to the first point. Your urgent request, in which you are talking about the need to look more closely at the socio-economic effects. It is true that the PISA study expresses that it is not significantly different here in Austria than in other European countries. But I'm saying it's a subject that you have to deal with. I believe that education has the important task of equalizing such socio-economic differences. That's not a question for me at all. But if you put this in here, then you have to say that this is linked to the mission to the Future Commission in the Ministry of Education, for example, with the task of defining performance standards and thus also establishing the following: If a person, on the basis of his or her abilities, is able to complete a certain training, this should be the decision-making criterion and not, for example, the financial or other backgrounds of his or her parents. – First point: already in work, partly already fulfilled. On the second point you are addressing, namely the question of different pedagogical possibilities: Here, too, you ignore the results of the PISA study. The PISA study also clearly found that the organisation of school is not crucial for the services that an education system ultimately provides. There are many other factors that I cannot address at the moment. [[Abg. Oils: But it would be important!]] Moreover, the World Competitiveness Report has put us at the same level as Finland. We have the first place there among all education systems, ladies and gentlemen. I think we have very little room to improve up there. The third point in your application is the extension of the whole day school offer. It is crucial for us that there is a freedom of choice here for the parents. If you extend the class to the afternoon, there is no longer this freedom of choice. However, I believe that in a colourful education system – a system of education that is differentiated and has different offers – there can and already exists all day school offers. This is possible if, for example, the School Community Committee takes such a decision by a majority. The last point I would like to address and which you have as the fourth point in your motion for a resolution is the question of teacher remuneration. You'll be late, too. We have already announced in the summer that we are working on it because that is an essential point. [[Abg. Brosz: 10 percent increase!]] It is true that we see the redistribution of the life-income curve as the right measure, and we also want to significantly increase entry-level salaries in the discussion on this change in teacher remuneration, because this is a sensible measure. [[Abg. Brosz:... belong raised!]] I think there's a total of that. Your urgent request today is therefore not too urgent, because you ask for some points that are either fulfilled or are at work. [[Abg. Oillingers: They're announced, but not anymore!]] In this sense: Get into a constructive discussion! I think we will be able to put in place a number of good measures in these areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e14507	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Kuntzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e14525	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Amon, I hope that not all of us here need to prove that we have put children in the world so that we can speak in this debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is certainly no disadvantage to live with children. But perhaps in this debate, it is precisely those who have decided to have children. [[Abg. Gahr: Yes!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] And perhaps we should talk to those in this debate about why they have decided so much so that we know what we need to improve, Mr Amon. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Gahr: You also have to be for something, not just against it!]] Of course, I think it is particularly important to discuss and debate why the desire and reality in the matter of life are so very different from one another. Of course, this is an important discussion. But we should ask ourselves two questions in advance: What are the framework conditions under which young people have to make the decision for or against children? And second: How does the world look like, in which we put a child today? Does that not make the decision as difficult as ever before? [[Abg. Murauer: Let's make the world better...!]] If you are making a policy today that leads to the social network being taken back, that unemployment is rising, that people feel that you can't rely on anything today, then you have to expect it to be part of the life planning of young people! [[Abg. Großruck: In Vienna she rises!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is also deeply responsible for the young people who have to make such a decision. What framework conditions do young women in particular have when they make the decision? – Only today have we been presented with a study by Wifo, in which young women can read that the fact that they are putting a child in the world and caring for a child will mean that they will take a massive income loss of at least € 107 000 and much higher in the course of their life. This is an essential framework condition. But if we have heard the discussion about the framework conditions over the past few weeks, we get the impression – I have learned to rejoice in small steps – that it has gone a little further, at least in the debate. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is also necessary in the SPÖ!]] But I'm afraid you're stuck in the rhetoric. The first point is the question of childcare facilities. There is at least once consensus that they are missing that they are to a great extent missing. [[Abg. Oils: No, consensus...!]] Interestingly, stay But they are stuck in this knowledge and say: But we don't want to create them; we know they're missing, but we won't do anything to create them. So, unfortunately, pure rhetoric. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: No one says that!]] As far as day-to-day schools are concerned, there has been a very valuable contribution to the discussion, an excuse from the Styrian ÖVP; I do not want to resist saying that. The valuable contribution is that in the discussion we finally get so far to discuss this subject pragmatically; just to discuss what makes educational sense and what parents need. I am very sorry, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you have fallen behind this discussion today and are again talking about the "compulsory day school". They say: This will be the first time we have been able to do so. I say, Mrs Federal Minister: Make a choice! There is no such option in much of Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We need additional afternoon care places in all day schools and other school forms for 429 000 children all day – in addition! We have 45 000 today, of which two thirds are in Vienna – that is, there is a broad field of activity here. Create an option, Mrs. Federal Minister, regional and also in different forms! There is probably not the right form, there are different right offers. But please don't ignore the whole day school as an important, meaningful pedagogical concept! [[New congratulations to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On the question of which society one puts a child today, a sentence by Ulrich Beck made me very bright in an interview recently in the “time”. He said: Young people used to have the opportunity to choose between opportunities; today young people have to choose between evils. – I think the sentence is rather punctual, but it should make us think. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon.]] Good opportunities for children to create for young people is a priority concern of politics, and this should be one for us. To develop a society of opportunities, to take steps in this direction, that should be a priority in politics, even in your budget policy – and there they are missing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That the Austrian school system strengthens social selection instead of balancing it, you already have two evidences on the table, Mrs. Federal Minister, the PISA study and the study of the Institute of Family Research. What I don't understand at all is that the Future Commission has not been commissioned to put proposals on the table on this very central point of education policy. I don't understand. I support the Greens' request: That must be a central task of the Future Commission, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Instead of taking measures to improve this situation in schools, more and more support and accompanying measures are being reduced, which means that children who need support are increasingly left alone in schools. When you talk to teachers – not only teachers who belong to our group, but also those of your political groups – you hear that they say: The funding measures are missing from the children, and they fear that when you resign, you will leave Earth burned at the schools, at the expense of our children, Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e14713	Mrs Rossmann is now speaking. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e14755	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! “It is incomprehensible if the children have to pay the bill,” says Mr Broukal. I say that it is completely incomprehensible for many Austrians and especially for young people – and also for many Green voters – if one does not discuss education without ideology. Completely incomprehensible! Youth does not understand how to pursue education policy with the coloured filter of party policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Education policy should be implemented exclusively in terms of quality and performance. That is why it is important, I say, to respond quickly to social conditions, to social change, but also to the change in the working world. The Federal Government has done a lot here. The Government Convention contains much to increase the quality and performance of the school system in particular. I also say – and have already said so in the Committee – that we must be able to discuss completely taboo, discuss taboo issues and structures. Of course, the school system still has crusts and structures of an old red-black proporz system; let's not think about it! The schools must be depoliticized – this is our message today from this point of view! Everything else doesn't understand anyone anymore. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You can believe that as an educational speaker of our group, I am a lot on the way to schools; by the way, I am the mother of two daughters. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Then tell me where school policy is made with party book!]] No one understands that school must be politically colored, that teachers' appointments must be brought into line with a political party book. [[Abg. Reheis: You are... your group!]] These are forced happinesss that no one wants today: they don't want the youth, not the teachers, and not the parents at all! [[Abg. Reheis:... has never existed!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That is why our expectations – and then you or your colleagues can report to the Austrian Convention – are very high, namely, when it comes to dealing with these structures that have been introduced in the truest sense of the word, in so far as the majority of the decision is concerned. Here I also allow the debate on values, namely, when it comes to what we should tell when, who should tell what when, what the parents' house and what the school should do. We liberals – even though some of us do not want to hear from the left wing – stand for nest heat. This may be an old-fashioned word for many, but nest heat and security is from a liberal point of view the recipe, the ground and the foundation for a successful development of youth and also for self-confident people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are, of course, ideological differences here. The discussion over the past few weeks has shown this particularly in the Styria that state captain comrade Voves, new party chairman of the SPÖ in Styria, prefers to have the influence: literally socialist thought from the cradle to the Bahre, education by the state, fixed from 8.30 a.m. to 4 p.m. – in Styria the so-called all-day school. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Have all black teachers too!]] I'm saying that's not our model. We liberals want to take care of a whole day – which is certainly a difference – all day care according to regional requirements, on a voluntary basis, and quite manageable. [[Abg. May. Posch: What is the name of the Party Secretary of the FPÖ?]] Then one can also develop for socially weak models, as private schools already do, namely setting up funds, setting up school pots to ensure free afternoon care for social weak. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Acting Politically?]] Of course, cooperation is necessary here. I also say that many schools have not yet been equipped, and not structurally and spatially. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Cooperation among schools is needed, cooperations when it comes to lunch and lunch, with the gastronomy. Why don't we talk about school people like in the UK? There is already a problem here, namely the problem of midday care. Many students have compulsory lessons in the afternoon, whether it be the turn hour or whether it's compulsory. I've been told that they have to leave school at lunchtime, they can't even stay in school because the liability question is not solved. There we are also on the proverbial question of liability in the summer. The law has made it possible for the sports courts to be accessible. But the students must not use them because the question of liability is not clarified or the school guard is not prepared to be present in the summer to open the school. Mrs. Federal Minister! I really want to ask you to take up the idea of our Carinthian head of state! That's very close. At the moment, the law of the State Teacher's Service is only provisional or in a trial phase and has to be re-adopted in 2004. Then, as a logical consequence, we will really have the opportunity to extend these 21 hours in the so-called pot C to 30 hours. I think it's up to the teachers. You could earn something with an afternoon care. An average Austrian usually has a 40-hour week. How can one explain to him that teachers are only 21 hours mandatory in school anyway? [[Abg. Oils: You have no idea at all! You're an educational speaker! It's a shame if you're so unnecessarily talking!]] I'm sure I have an idea! We should not only talk about the performance of the students, but also about the performance of the teachers, but also about the performance of the teachers. I advocate the creation of a system for providing teachers with a high-performance salary and that additional hours and additional teaching and learning should also be honoured. We liberals also want the salary system to be designed in such a way that there are higher entry salaries and indeed incentives. Those who continue their education and those who take care of the afternoon should get a bonus. In my opinion, this also applies to those teachers who create an attractive teaching. Many teachers do a lot of work to conduct a lively, motivating teaching, and the students also love these teachers for it. The love of the students, however, is the only thing that comes back. Pecuniary is not yet visible in this remuneration system. I think that the idea of performance should really be laid down! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] Those teachers, who have not always been praying the same for 40 years in class, should really get a corresponding reward in the salary system in the form of a bonus system. However, I am now also preparing the taboo theme of depragmatization and the abolition of school-based posts. – Modern teacher management is only possible if possible. In addition, in the case of Pragmatization, the provision of such a service is not possible in the same form as in the case where teachers also have to have constant controls and evaluations and on the one hand receive quite an incentive from a bonus system, but on the other hand, if something does not happen, also get a warning. The idea of performance can be rewritten, even if we are talking about the shattering. I am now again at the Austrian Convention and the two-thirds majority. I now mention, for example, the fact that a two-thirds majority in Parliament is required to change the teaching field of ‘life education’ in ‘movement and sport’. I don't think that's the hour's commandment! I think we should rather consider the taboo theme of the political bodies and consider whether we still need the colleges, which are already composed of pro-propors, in this form. The summit of political bodies is the College in Styria: It is not based on the D’Hondt system, but it is the case that there are arbitrary circumstances that do not correspond to the D’Hondt system at all. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You're talking about class arbitrariness now! We've always shown them!]] That's what you said, but I'll give you the right in this case! But this is also the only federal state, in all others the colleges are one to one aligned to the D’Hondt system. But we should also talk about it in general: Do we still need the colleges? Do we need the National School Council? Do we need the District School Council? Should we not better install a free education management free from party policy with federal unity of objectivity? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ollinger and Mr Mag. Posch.]] There you laugh because you don't like it! A federal uniform objectivation should be established in which appropriate standards are established, so that it can be really objective and that the teacher's order is not made after a waiting list and according to the party's book. I think these would be new approaches. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll be at the end of the sentence. I am aware that there is still much to discuss within the coalition. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] I'm appealing to You all here: In the future, let us also take advantage of the opportunity offered by the Austrian Convention to create a school without party politics!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e14962	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. I'd like to set the clock to 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e14980	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! I am not going to climb into speculations whether pills cycles and prohibitions have been decreed in the Vatican on the basis of an initiative by the ÖVP, but I would like to begin with my motion for a resolution because, in the case of so many high-speed flights of the government, we are going to be modest. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] We were convinced – and the rector's conference has given the opposition the right – that 100 million € are necessary for a decent, yet far-reaching operation from the world class. However, since you will reject this motion, our motion for a resolution here in Parliament refers to your statements and your promises at the press hour, and we would be glad if this promise were fulfilled. Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I come back to the x-te government statement within 7 months, which has offered us bowl and main today. Both were not plagued by the slightest self - doubt or at least self - doubted. I heard again the terms “superlative” and “millstones” and that millions would flow into research and universities. This only leaves room for consideration, whether there is no self-suggestion and self-deception more weight than reality recognition and reality analysis. – But I believe that self-deception and Autosuggestion are not the characteristics of a chancellor profile, but also no features of a minister's profile. However, self-deceptions are only private matters if you do not buy or perhaps intend to deceive others. But you fooled Parliament, you fooled the universities, and you deceived the people. This can be proved: Grasser said in his budget speech that funding to university research institutions doubled from 1999 to 2004. – If you read in the published budget speech and look at tables, then you can find that € 543 million is missing for doubling. Is this a deception or a mere error of those who will never be wrong and know everything? I don't believe the latter! Grasser grants the universities a budget increase of € 733 million. But see: When reading more, it should be noted that this was the 733 million who had previously been assigned to the Federal Chancellor's Office or to the Riess-Passer business unit and covered the staff costs of the universities. That's a zero-sum game! The universities must use the € 733 million to pay their staff. Thus, this is not an increase, but a maximum of getting the ist stand. That means: Grasser is not a self-deception, but he has deceived other people. In my opinion, however, these characteristics are not compatible with a good and true policy. I would take this desire or the need for truth, Mrs Gehrer, as well as a debate on values. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] At least I would do that for so long as the truth is a value and not just a daughter of the time or even a findling child of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have the impression that the Ministry of Education and Research – you may or may not forgive me! – Actually, how an advertising agency is managed. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's what many say!]] But that can't be it, because an advertising agency has no resemblance to a science department! In view of this, however, I am not surprised that many believe that all arguments are more like an intellectual mistake than an comprehensible explanation about the Is-stands, the abuses and what you want to achieve. The light is already shining red. - I'm just telling you: Many young researchers have also been deceived. Some of them may have believed in the world class for weeks. Perhaps those who believed this are no longer in the lab, but on the streets. The research fund could not approve any project in early summer of this year, posts could not be extended, projects were interrupted, the people had no work. That's true and not wrong. If you constantly say that everything is much better, then ultimately you also sue the rectors and the individual responsible at the universities to say the untruth. I am not now talking about paper paper and copy paper, but I am talking about really massive equipment failures and missing resources and, in turn, not about the world class, but only about a primitive goal. I now come to a Tirol reference, namely an event that is long before the country election, and note that, in view of ropes and resistance to the rector's appointment at the Faculty of Medicine Innsbruck, you have for the first time entered into the role of a spectator, but have intervened in a regular manner where commissions should find their decisions autonomously and indiscriminately. I just find that unbearable! As unbearable, I also find the opinion expressed by your head of section Höllinger, who, although he has instructed the Council to do so, namely that a proposal for a threesome is necessary in the event of a election, but has been silent, that the Ministry has not opposed, but even tolerated, proposals for the election of a rector at several universities. This legal opinion of Höllinger was then even revoked by the President-in-Office because she was wrong. Minister! That's what I'm asking: Who is responsible for ministerial matters: You or your section head? – If your section head will now say again how the procedure should proceed, although the opinion of a high-ranking lawyer is that the Council was not even lawful in its election and therefore could not or could not have taken place, I think this is a serious political influence! With this in mind, I can only express my wish and the wish of Innsbruck University here: Don't let the council and the candidate finally turn out to be so long! That would be the death of the university!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e15055	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grünewald, Mr Broukal, Mr Freundes and Mr Freunde is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Greenewald! In addition, I note that there is an objective need for an exegesis of the Roman Stoist Gellius, who says: ‘Veritas filia temporis’. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: O tempora, o mores!]] The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e15083	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I wish myself more money for research, I wish myself more money for universities, I also wish myself more money for schools, for theatres, for museums, for hospitals, but I also wish the continuation of the budget consolidation course! I wish we would remain faithful to our Austrian course and not take the German path with a budget deficit of 4 percent. This would not only be a bad offense to young people, to generations and to the future, but it would also lead to a European criminal procedure in which the state, the citizen or the citizen would not only have to repay the debts but also pay punishment. – I don’t want this way! Thus, a measure must be found between desire and reality and a measure of how other modern states in Europe are going, such as the Netherlands, Scandinavian countries or Switzerland. On the other hand, we do not want to follow Germany's example of saving massively at universities and at research and yet being in the minus. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Rather, I suggest that we go the way that the Minister and the Federal Government have chosen. I've already said at this point: It is true that the budget for the universities in 2003 is narrow, but in the sense of overall responsibility and in view of the 2004/2005 budget years, this was reasonable for universities and research institutions, and it is still reasonable. The universities have said: We will do this with creative commitment! – You have already said, on the immediate offers to supplement 15 million for implementation and for personnel traffic jams, that it will be possible to offer the teaching as in the previous year. Rector Winckler told me about the question of cleaning conditions that priorities were set. We think that's right. The summer cleaning was a reasonable scheme: People take vacations, are out of research and not present. [[Abg. Broukal: There were reductions!]] Mr Broukal! I'm 20 years busy at the university, and I don't want to tell you how many times I made my own hands, took curtains and washed myself. [[Abg. May. Posch: This does not correspond to Humboldt’s educational idea!]] It's not about things getting so much worse. It does not correspond to Humboldt’s educational idea, that’s right, but it was already under Kreisky and Scholten and other ministers if you want to remember! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the future, let us say what is urgent about this question and this request: This has a little to do with the turnaround at the beginning of autumn. I am pleased that some 600 million of the research funds that are envisaged have already been redeemed. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: This is a resigned speech!]] The FWF made it clear on the weekend that the additional funding for the research fund also eliminates the most important pressure points and that the universities have the new human resources right to appoint young researchers of their choice and to employ them under the protection of the employee's right, which is partly greater than under the contract law, which was the employee's right of the federal government. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You have nothing left, you don't want anything, you don't have a goal!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The teaching at the universities is guaranteed, which is acknowledged by the head of the rectors. Therefore, I wonder why there is a bottleneck at the Institute of Sociology in Vienna and that is said to offer only 30 places for seminar candidates there. Something can't be right! This must be due to the local organization of the conditions! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Your speech is almost depressive!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, we should stop talking the universities into poverty and pretending to be almost post-war conditions here! I know universities in Europe, also in America, and there are more magnificent, but there are also much, much more modestly equipped ones. The motivation does not depend on whether one can offer a particularly luxurious equipment, but on the extent to which a certain research and curiosity and a certain academic attitude can be developed at the institutes under autonomous conditions and passed on to the youth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I am very glad that, in the near future, thanks to the support of the Ministry and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, it will succeed under the ASCINA programme, financed by the Ministry of Science, to contact non-European Austrian researchers, to finance travel grants, to create contact programmes and to strengthen contacts. This is not a cheap recovery action, but an invitation to contact those researchers who were not Austrian refugees, but who simply took advantage of the opportunity to look around and establish abroad, and have had research experience there. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should stop criticizing texts from the ministry or from where they came from in pseudo-intellectual language analyses, but should seriously enter into a constructive debate for a constructive solution. The 2004 budget will provide for an increase – the Minister has announced it – and it will be €200 million. I emphasize: 200 million €! This will allow staff pressure to be removed, and the research resources will be increased. In this respect, the programme can be seen. Let's go to work and stop holding seasonal pseudodebates! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e15187	The next speaker is Mr Broukal. Speaking time 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e15205	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Dr. Brinek! What has been reasonable in recent months? I was at the University of Innsbruck last week and had the opportunity to speak with about 30 to 40 professors, lecturers, assistants and project assistants, while the project assistants assured me that until then they did not know if they were from 1. In October, they would still be project assistants, or they would be out of work on the street. What is reasonable about that? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What can be expected if there is no longer any success in occupying professors' offices, assistants' offices, because, since the exclusion from civil service law, the high ranking required by civil service law, including the fees and pension funds, is no longer manageable for universities in their present state? What is reasonable about that? What is reasonable about the fact that institutions are no longer being cleaned? What is reasonable about the fact that libraries can no longer buy books? These are not things that the opposition invents! If I take only one newspaper, the “standard” of today, page 1, I get it confirmed, because that’s what it says: “Uni-Institute soon without a scientist. Innsbruck’s Vice-Ektor fights for personnel.” – Not the opposition! From page 6 it says: ‘Uni-crisis: Young scientists are looking for a jump.” – They have managed to see this university system as so likely and forward-looking by young academics as the first way to go abroad and to the private sector. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But not all of them are fleeing from Austria!]] Not the opposition, the young scientists say it themselves, what you know, because we all read the same newspapers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not the opposition again, but it is the two rectors Bast and Schmidt-Wulffen who say that the current policy is passing by the edge of responsibilitylessness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] What am I supposed to say? In concrete terms, you said I should talk? I'm actually talking. I have made the effort to investigate in the last few days how the Institute of Education at the University of Vienna, the Institute of Education, in its list of teachers, also Mrs. Dr. Brinek can be found. The number of students has increased dramatically in recent years, and the number of teachers is falling dramatically. There were six ordinary professorships there, from the 1st century onwards. There are still two of them in January 2004. In May 2000, the Institute had 17 posts for extraordinary professors, 11 in May 2003 in January 2004 it will be 8.5 and only five in May 2005. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The negotiations are under way!]] So far, the new unattractive service law has only one post-occupied occupation. The level of staffing goes down, but the load increases. In the study year 1999/2000, 18 200 individual exams were reduced, in the study year 2001/2002 there were 25 000, 40 percent more with only half that staff! As everywhere at the University of Vienna, Ms. Doctor – they may not know that – there is no money for cleaning at the Institute of Education. Some scientists, according to my information, take their private household assistance, and I have heard from you that you wash the curtains yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That was 20 years ago!]] I suppose you're overpaid for that, Mrs. Dr. Brinek. For this you are absolutely overpaid. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I want you to research and teach there, I don't want you to have to wash curtains there. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: 20 years ago!]] I don't need this post-war sethos at all. I want the universities to be properly cleaned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Tutors and tutors clean the shelves in the library, I read. So the scientific... [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: 20 years ago, under Minister Scholten, I washed the curtains myself! Just so you know when that was!]] Under Minister Scholten? He was a minister 20 years ago? Yeah, good, okay. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] But now everything is much better, we always learn. However, it seems that nothing has changed in the third year of Black-Blue’s “luckiness” at the universities. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] “I wish you more money” – another statement of your speech. I've decided to talk calmly today, and I'm doing it. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: From now on!]] “I wish you more money,” was another sentence of your speech. – I say to you: Her government has more money where she really wants it. As of next year, your government will give self-employed workers a tax privilege that has never existed in that country and that will bring 400 million € in the final development after the budget forecast of your Minister of Finance. We are not talking about interception hunters, not agricultural subsidies, not about urgently necessary things, but that is something you have invented freely, something that there has never been in Austria and what there should not have been around €400 million next year or perhaps only € 300 million, and € 100 million we could have given to universities. I'm here for many months now and I'm wondering: Who is right: the rectors or the wife Gehrer? They always claim the opposite. But then I look at these rectors, and I think that these are more serious serious people. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Watch out! You know exactly. Half-tax rate for entrepreneurs, half-tax rate for profits not collected. Thank you! [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Finally, I put forward a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e15360	Deputies! The motion for a resolution is so long that I have had it distributed. They therefore need not read it, but only present it in the cornerstones.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e15376	That's exactly what I'm doing. – Do you have to remember your own requests? Half-tax rate for entrepreneurs? That's what you need to remember? A few weeks ago, Mr. Stumblingly, he was still so stupidly proud of the fact that this was finally coming. I now come to the request: The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture is invited to make 100 million € available to universities and the Science and Research Fund for 2003 as an emergency measure. The universities must receive a base amount of €21 million and the rest according to the number of registered listeners. – It follows a longer list that I do not mention. The FWF must be donated with an additional €35 million. We call for the immediate funding of the 500 professors who were promised to the universities in June 2001, and for concrete initiatives to promote young scientists. I hope we can agree that we can see this together in such a way that the universities are not an exercise field for excessive austerity. I'm asking you to do this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e15424	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Broukal, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues, which has just been presented in his key points, has also been presented in writing and is sufficiently supported. So he's negotiating. I have had it duplicated and distributed; it is printed in the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16132	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann. The vote will take place at 7.30 p.m. – You are speaking, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16151	Mr President. High house! Minister! Although Mr Broukal has taken a step back, I ask him, if we are already discussing the curtains, nevertheless: Have you ever seen Wash your curtains yourself? If you're talking about university here, don't you want to talk about whether you've washed your curtains before, or how? [[Abg. Broukal: Do you wash the curtains of the FPÖ Federal Business Office itself?]] That's what I'm saying: The universities should be a model in my eyes, and they should be an example of economical economies! [[Abg. Broukal: And for curtain-washing!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The universities should be an example of how to deal economically with the funds you receive! That's what I think it's right that the universities should learn for themselves how to divide their cleaning staff. This is also a way: that if you teach something, you also have to implement it if you have opportunity, and this opportunity has the university. [[Abg. Broukal: You learn how to wash curtains! Great!]] Don't worry about it! It's true now! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another thing: If one makes a new right of service and then there is no one who uses this right of service, which now slowly leads to a direct link, so to what you always demand that everyone get into the ASVG, then get up and say: It does not apply for such posts because there is a new right of service! – Yes, that is why a new right of service has been created to ensure equality. That's exactly what you actually want, but then it doesn't fit you at once! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So don't measure with two different measurements here, but help make the universities have a role model and show a model effect. I'd expect that from you, too. I have also wondered – if we are already in science, I say so in the same way – about it. If you write that the FWF is being spent with a 20 percent lower budget and it's all so terrible and so terrible, then I have to tell you: You're not up-to-date, up-to-date! Read what the FWF itself says! I can inform you: One is very grateful to the Ministry for these extraordinary measures, says President Georg Wick, because he is happy... – well, keep on watching!, that seems to have gone away from you! – that 8.5 million € or 9 percent more are paid than in the previous year. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What else should you do?]] It could be 100 million € in total. This is more than in the previous year what was done there. You just ignored that. This may be a marketing problem. You didn't sell it well enough, you don't talk so much about the good things the government does. Therefore, even you have read it and taken the wrong thing into your request. More money is very likely to be made available, and even the FWF itself says it's good and he's happy about it. – So tell yourself about it before you write in such things! One point also on the issue of generations, because this was also taken into account in this whole question. We should consider how to bring generation solidarity in the future again in the future, that there are existing families in which one can help one another. In this context, I should like to say the following: Something the SPÖ has done in decades of work is that there is care from the cradle to the Bahre, as it is so beautiful. You look to get the children out of the house as early as possible and then move the older generation into the home so that the family breaks apart and thus the identity is no longer present. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: How is child care in Tyrol?]] That's what you've been doing for decades, and so you've teared the families apart very well. But still – and that's why I'm glad it didn't work so sustainable in the population – 80 percent of all respondents, especially young people, see family as one of the highest values – leisure time is further behind, many other things are further behind – and want to have two children. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: You're going to more parties!]] Why don't they make it? [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Because of your politics!]] We have only been able to make a significant contribution to this for three years. We cannot reverse what you have changed to the wrong direction for decades in three years. We can't do that from today to tomorrow, but we've done a lot already. Be calm, we will also do more that the families in Austria will get better again. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: What have you done?]] We've done the babysitting money, and we're going to continue. We will ensure that this wrong direction, which the SPÖ has taken, goes back towards more family. We will give more value to the children and the families in Austria. You'll see! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: The families have already realized your policy!]] Who? [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: The families have already realized your policy!]] Yes, that is why all those who receive the child care allowance are very happy because the families have now realized that the Freedom Party is the party that gives the families a high priority in the Federal Government with the ÖVP. That's what the families understood to be lucky. That's the good thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16331	Mr Puswald! They stand here and interrupt the speaker continuously. At the President-in-Office's Conference, we have given the President the task of preventing exactly such things when women are constantly being impoverished. I ask you not to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16363	However, I do not see it as a particular nuisance of the colleague. This is a thing to deal with, I think, when you work in politics, there are sometimes Members who are somewhat rude. I have no problem with that, but I have a problem with neglecting the families and discussing the whole day school quite differently than it should actually be discussed. Just as the Greens and the SPÖ imagine that it should be an all-day school with the duty and storage of the children, it is the wrong way. We want there to be freedom of choice and also affordability. Why don't we do it together that, so that everyone can really afford it, we increase the teaching obligation for teachers and extend attendance to the afternoon. You should all be there, because then we would have the opportunity to ensure the care even in the afternoon without the parents having to pay for it and even without the public hand having to pay for it. That would be a variant that you could certainly join if this care is as important to you as you always do and as you say. That would be a way to shape afternoon care, and it would be voluntary and so that the children do not have to sit on, but that there is also the possibility of creativity or sports. That's what parents and children want. They don't want an additional number of hours, but a support, a learning aid, a help in the afternoon as well. But that is only for those who really want and need it, voluntarily. That's why I'm asking you to: Stop feeling sick, talk badly, but also take part in what the government is doing, and make the effort to look at the figures, data and facts, and see what the government has already done well, especially good for families, and what it will do in education and school! I strongly urge you to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16403	Mr Broukal spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. You start with the facts you want to correct, and you face the right facts with no ratings.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16427	I noticed this last time, Mr President. Thank you for the memory! Mrs. Dr. Bleckmann meant that the Social Democrats would tend to send all students to all day school to make the school compulsory for all students. I really want to say that the Social Democratic Party of Austria wants the whole day school to be more an offer than before, but it should not be the only offer. It should be a possibility for those parents who want to accept them, not for all. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I would like to ask that in this debate, which has been so interesting in recent hours, we do not always have wax poles in between. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] We are currently agreeing on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16472	Deputies! That was a somewhat broad interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. It is therefore necessary to remind you of the provisions, even if they do not benefit. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. 5 minutes desired speaking time. – You are speaking, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16500	Mr President. High house! Mrs Gehrer! The quote “What Makes Life Worth Life? For example, if you run out from party to party, is it single life?” you’ll probably follow for even longer. When I heard this quote for the first time, I thought of playing cross-flute and singing walking songs as qualitative is not much better either. So please let the youth have the leisure activities you want, and be yours with your heart. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That was the first consideration. Then I thought: What do you think about the youth that moves you to make such statements? You didn't just do that once, you did it repeatedly. There is a youth study from 2000, which clearly states that 72 percent of 16 to 24 year old friends and well-known people are central areas of life and 69 percent of the same target group is the family of central life. It is. That's the one side. On the other hand, only 4 percent of all respondents say: I don't want kids! Now something's split up. I think we have to ask ourselves: Then why do young people not want to have children? It is clear that this yes to the family also needs a basic degree of security and political decisions taking into account social developments, and these social developments have fallen asleep in the past. There have been significant changes. This concerns the keeping together of couples – they don't stay together so often for a lifetime anymore – and there are completely new forms of living and living, and the number of single parents has risen very much. You have also given no political answers to the questions of mobility and related to the spatial separation of families. The only answer you always give is the freedom of choice, which, however, is exhausted in whether women prefer to stay at home or at home, because more alternatives do not exist if you look at reality. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A second thing that needs it for this yes to the family is security, but what this government offers instead of security is uncertainty and instability. We have never had a government – apart from the Black-Blue I government – which has had so much instability as this government. No human knows what will happen to us. What you're doing to reforms, you're making quick, over-heaps, like the pension reform. The colleague, Mr Glavischnig, has already mentioned this. They explain how much better the conditions for women are now. I'll tell you: By increasing the calculation period from 15 to 40 years you have destroyed all that you have achieved in other areas of slight improvement, and the situation has even worsened. Under the rule, this results in a minus, a distinct deterioration. That's what we see at the pensions. Women's pensions have fallen again over the last four years. Four years ago a woman had an average of 52.7 percent of a man's pension, today it's only 44.1 percent. This is also a result of minor jobs, part-time jobs, your kind of policy, which means: Women stay at home, or if you are already working, please go to work part-time and have small employment conditions so that everyone is satisfied! I strongly oppose that the decision to have or not to have a child is, so to speak, put into space as a political one. This is a personal decision, and I would also like inside here that no one in a political discussion be held responsible for whether he or she has children or grandchildren. This is the personal decision of individuals and must be respected as such. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we must do, however, is to create framework conditions so that there is a good environment that makes it possible to have children at all. This extends from the continuation of women's equality until then, finally, to the provision of care for children who are urgently needed. We have heard the number today, 90 000 are. However, it also goes towards basic financial security for children. We know from the Federal Social Report that it is one of the great poverty risks to have children, especially more children. That's your policy, that's what you're responsible for! Make sure you have a basic financial security in this area. That also means securing training, but the very opposite is the case. We have already heard this in a number of debates. To create a good framework also means to ensure a fair distribution of assets. At present, there is an increasing number of private capital and fewer and fewer social benefits. You are also required to take steps in this area. Further: Let all those who want to work, be it women, whether it be migrants who live here in Austria and would like to work and not be able to work. My last point concerns children who already live here in Austria. They're calling for kids. Mrs. Federal Minister! There are 7 000 children in Austria who have an illegal residence here. Give these children a legal stay and thus also give you the right to get a good education and a job here if they stay in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16581	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. Speaking time 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16599	High house! At the beginning of the debate on the urgent request, I heard the sentence of Mrs Glavischnig that she actually wanted to spare all of us from a debate on values. I can only say that I'm so sorry. [[Abg. Brosz: This meant a value debate à la Gehrer!]] As a young Member, I would rather urge all Members to hold this debate together and not be afraid of it, to consider what the generation treaty is and what values each generation – for there are more than the two, five have been defined at European level – must bring with it in order to make a life in Europe, a life in Austria not only tolerable, but beautiful and peaceful. The ÖVP welcomes this discussion and this debate on values, and I am very happy about that. [[Abg. Oils: But how!]] I would like the youth organisations of all other parties and the youth speakers present here to support me. The start of the debate has shown that there are, for example, differences in the Greens: Mr Mandak said that there were no problems, that everything was fine, while Mrs Glavischnig said, no, she was actually there. Perhaps one can also clarify this within the parties. [[Abg. Oillinger: You should not forget to say something even to other opinions in the ÖVP!]] Especially when I look at what we have done for the autumn, especially if I remember that there is a harmonisation of pension systems ahead of us, I would really like all politicians, whether they are young or not, who are responsible for young people, to really take a heart for the young and, accordingly, to discuss and consider what solidarity in the generation treaty means: What is material and immaterial generation solidarity? What does this have to do with schemes such as pension and payroll? I was the one who already demanded in the election campaign that we need a “path with the principle of seniority” not only for teachers, but also everywhere and especially in the public service. This is already confirmed by an EU directive, and Austria must be grateful to the God. It also has to do with the fairness of public support. Does it have its right that older people pay less for the use of public transport than young ones? The same is true at museum entrances. These are discussions to be held. What about family solidarity? What happens if grandparents and parents fail as babysitters and family-in-house house builders? These are all things you need to discuss, right up to issues of mutual appreciation and mutual respect. It was mentioned that although the Youth Value Study confirms the desire for children, there are shortcomings in the implementation. Of course, there are also circumstances why this is so. First of all, in Austria, thanks to the high employment of women, who are really at the forefront of the European field. This leads to the fact that there are now more female academics who want to practice their profession, of course. The father and the grandfather who financed the girl's expensive training realize this. You'll be 30 soon, and then you're not going out of the ten kids anymore, but maybe only the cut of 1.3. [[Abg. Oils: What are 1.3 children?]] Nevertheless, human capital is the most important thing we need to protect in Austria. [[Abg. Oillingers: Why don't you talk about people who are more important?]] This also includes education, afternoon care, so that family and work can actually be properly reconciled. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to support this request. On the speaker list I have seen that I think my colleague Heinisch-Hosek is speaking, i.e. I've been waiting for a few nice interrupts and I'm excited about what you've been thinking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16725	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Fuhrmann, drawn up by Mrs Werner Amon, MBA, Mr Mares Rossmann, Mr Silvia Fuhrmann, Mr Barbara Rosenkranz, Mr Rosenkranz, Mrs Amon, Mr MBA, Mr Rossmann, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Rosenkranz, is well supported and is therefore involved in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, who has already been announced. Requested speaking time 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16760	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies ministers on the government bank! In all friendship, my colleague, Fuhrmann, I was never intertwined. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Exactly!]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] The last sentence of your last speech aimed at me – let's look at the Minutes and then talk about it at a coffee! – was, I mean, intertwined! Nevertheless, at the beginning of my speech, Mrs Fuhrmann, I would like to remind you that you have already agreed to all the laws, but now you stand out and say: We need harmonisation, we need a solidarity contribution! After all, we must note that we have boys to pay in a third pillar. You have agreed to all of this! I don't know if you talk to apprentices from time to time. With 350 € apprentice compensation per month in the first year of teaching, it is quite difficult to pay in a private provision if you have an apprenticeship at all. That is exactly what I think is also the subject of this urgent request to Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer, because when, Mrs. Fuhrmann, if not now in autumn – Mr. Brinek has done this a little bit – after schooling, when it is the biggest hit of large groups that little has actually happened, we should talk about topics such as education and training. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's good! When, if not now, who if not?]] Already the PISA study, ladies and gentlemen, has not given us the very best witness. We were mediocre. No word of self-criticism came from the Federal Government. It was not said: We really want to get better! The Federal Government was sat and satisfied. We never were! But what happened? – hourly cuts, which the students actually do not want when they turn around, colleague Amon. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Sure, talk to the students! This is at the expense of the curriculum, which is probably clear. It was a reduction in the number of teaching posts associated with it, and that was the true background. Now we have a study on the table again, the OECD study “Education at a Glance”, and it is actually very clear that young people are being very neglected in us. There we are suddenly the third worst with regard to young men, colleague Amon – with the girls it is a bit better – who are neither in a school nor in a workplace. In my opinion, this is an urgent need for action. Although the urgent request is addressed to the Federal Minister of Labour today, I believe that Mr Bartenstein as Minister of Labour as Minister of Labour should also be included in the responsibility, because, finally, it is the Minister of the Future and the Minister of Labour who are responsible for the fact that some 6,000 young people last year have met the fate of having no place in a middle or higher school, and that thousands of young people – about 15,000 are now just – do not have a teaching position. They are in training that will eventually end, and they will then push back into the labour market. There are many young people who have to work on the university under conditions – this has already been addressed today – that are under every criticism. No euro has come out of the budget to improve this situation, ladies and gentlemen, especially as regards young jobseekers. Reimbursements from the labour market service had to last for this purpose. I now wonder – Mr Broukal has already mentioned this today –: How can you cope with the historically highest debt, the Federal Minister Grasser, since no money can be loosened at all, I say in the language of youth, for those who really need it now. We know the reason anyway: Next year, €400 million will be loosened for companies, which has already been implemented. There is no redemption at all, nor any of the promises made by the Minister of Labour, who meant: Every youth who does not receive a apprenticeship should receive at least one course! There are far too few of that. Even this morning, Mr Bundeskanzler – because you are currently supporting the two ministers on the government bank, I am addressing this – you are not speaking about any solution proposals regarding how we could improve the situation of young people in the apprenticeship market, nor are you proposing solutions from Mr Vice-Chanzler's head. But what did we get? – A distraction debate that has become a value debate that has so far been uniquely one-sided. I think we should have this debate. On the value scale of the young people there is a good training, second a good job and third, of course, a family foundation. If the first two conditions are met, then you can also look at the next one, but if you don't find any conditions, then you will think very well about whether in times like these children you put into the world. What can we do about it together? – I would like to end very conciliatory. – I think we should jointly ensure that we improve the situation in schools, that we improve the situation for students in this country, that we improve the situation for the youngest and the families by creating childcare facilities. Federal Chancellor! An invitation to the countries is too little. The countries and communities – I must not forget – are more than starved and will not be able to do what you imagine in the future. The Federation is now required!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16832	Mr. Klubobmann Cap! [[Members of the SPÖ surround the bank of the Agg. Dr. Cap.]] We have referred precisely to what is happening here in the presidential context and have said that we will no longer do so in the future. The next speaker is Mrs. Elisabeth Gehrer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16863	Mr President. High house! I would like to say to Mr Broukal's contribution: ==References====External links== The following was to be read from Carinthia November 2002: "There should also be no additional money for the universities under a Minister of Broukal. Saving and repainting are its recipes. “There are so many bureaucracy and administrative barriers there that cost money that is much more urgently needed elsewhere,” says Broukal. Experience from his time at ORF shows that ‘in many areas, ten percent can be saved without anyone noticing’.” Let us imagine what this statement would have meant for the universities if it had been implemented for the universities with a total budget of €1.5 billion! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Broukal: Not for the thousandth time! At the time, I underestimated the situation of the universities in which you have already brought them!]] The Austrian Federal Government ensures that the universities have a budget this year, with which they can well cover the teaching, research and operating costs, even according to the rectors. Greater investment needs to be postponed to the beginning of 2004. In 2004, a total of €200 million is available to universities. In recent years, universities have received €57 million for additional research infrastructure, and the universities have received over €100 million for the improvement of study conditions. We will not return to the old casting pot system. The universities are invited to set priorities, to submit good research applications and thus to benefit from increased research funding. Mr Grünewald, I am always taking very seriously what you say you are an insider of the university, and I am happy to talk to you about the processes when ordering the rector. I'm not right about how these things are going about, but I'm not getting involved at all. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] I think, too, and I'm sure that the university curriculum will find a way. However, if we are constantly asked in the ministry for any legal information, then we try as best as possible to provide this legal information. But I also say quite clearly to you: We have already taken up up to €15 million with the Minister of Finance, the universities will receive them – but also not according to the casting system, but according to the needs, after which, which costs for implementation apply. Medical universities will receive more because they simply have more costs by implementing them. We will see this very carefully with experts, and I am very grateful for your help in this area. Several previous speakers, such as Mrs Kuntzl, said: How does it look in our world? It looks so sad for the youth! Mr Brosz asked: How does it look when it comes to the situation of young people? – I would like to make a statement that I like very well: Whoever lets the head hang, he doesn't see much! Whoever lets the head hang, does not see what developments there are and in which beautiful country we live. Look Once again, how the conditions in Austria really are! We're the environmental protection number one. [[Abg. Oils: Haven't been there for a long time!]] We are at the forefront of quality of life. We only have one percent inflation. This is exemplary throughout Europe! With 4.5 percent, we have the second lowest unemployment, that is, the second best employment in Europe. Youth unemployment is one of the lowest with 7.1 percent. But I'm telling you: Every single youth unemployed person is too much for us. [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] That is why we will also create good conditions for these young people with the upward trend that is emerging for the next few years. In your favorite country of Finland, which seems always to be positive for everything, there is 21 percent youth unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It used to be Sweden!]] I therefore think that our education system is better than the education system in Finland and gives young people better opportunities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[The Members of Parliament, Mr Ollinger and Mr Brosz, are embarrassing, embarrassing!]] I mean, we have good conditions in Austria, but there is a very nice saying, which means: Whoever stops getting better, he's not good either! That is exactly what I am trying to do: get even better in all areas, so that we can strengthen the good positions we have in Europe so that we can strengthen the good positions we have in the world, for youth and for the best conditions for our youth.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e16986	Mrs Rosenkranz is now coming to the speaker's desk. Desirable time: 7 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17004	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My venerations Ladies on the government bank! Mrs Gehrer! You don't have to grumble. If the excitement is restored and the polemics with which you are being persecuted - I say it - are over, will remain that They have stimulated a debate which is essential because of its basic importance for this country and because of the current urgency. On the basis of what has been heard today, it can be seen that there is still a great need for information about demographic links and the social significance of these links. This can be seen from repeated remarks such as those that the decision for children is private. – No, of course this decision is private! However, the social consequences for a social state are enormous. That is exactly why we must not neglect this question, and I am amazed that you can be surprised when someone says that the future of our country lies in the children. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: So not private!]] [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] The links of a social state are obvious: It is based on the payment procedure. That is, for the generation contract as a social agreement, that the working generation must maintain those who are no longer or are not yet active, is essential that the demographic conditions are right. Otherwise, this generation contract comes into effect. – That’s so simple, and there we are now. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This is much more complicated! This is the exciting question: On what basis is the social system financed?]] It is an undisputed, banal principle of every economy that every social effort is to be taken into account in current national incomes. Especially if I am interested in maintaining the social state – I hope that this is not disputed – I would have had to pursue demographic development for decades with Argusaugen. That's clear, because otherwise what I'm trying to defend comes in. This has not only consequences for our pension system, but also, of course, has massive consequences for the labour market. This debate is also important because some prejudices and misguided opinions can be clarified. For example, one might think that at least a gratifying consequence of the decline in birth is a reduction in unemployment. But this assumption – which can be proved and shown quite well in the meantime – is wrong, because it is based on a too mechanical view of economic activity. Because of the decline in people, not only workers, but above all employers are taken out of the work process – and those much more! The average age of a business founder is 35 years. In these age groups, however, there will be losses. That is, we are losing more jobs than we are working. We expect serious economists to expect a further increase in unemployment due to the decline in birth. Only that this can be said is a good result of this debate. So how did this birth development come about? Of course, a change in values has taken place, and therefore this debate on values is also very good and reasonable. Of course, this change in values also has economic causes. - I'm right about old Marx. Being determines consciousness. In earlier times, prior to the introduction of social security schemes, it was clear – and is still present in the third world – that: If I have no children and no connection to family structures, then I am not only lonely at age, but also miserable. This has been completely reversed by us, because the social system has decoupled this link, although it remains, of course, small numbers of children, few contributors, difficulties in the pension system. For the individual, however, this link has to be reversed: You live better at age and in the pension if you do not have children. – The pension payments to mothers show that they fall with each child. You also live better during the active time if you do not have children. This shows, for example, the last Wifo study: Transfer services already included, the children's costs are nevertheless enormous. So the social state clearly sends an economic incentive to give up children. This government has done a lot to make families better. But there will still be a lot to be done, because it is not enough. The topic of immigration: Some believe that the birth defects could be compensated for. Especially on this issue, it is very important to discuss without the limits of political correctness, otherwise you would have to prefer to think with limited thought. That's not supposed to happen to anyone right here. On the argument of maintaining the social state: There are a number of recent serious studies that prove that everything is more important to social security systems through immigration than input. That is to say, the balance is negative unless – and no one really wants that, although science has clean expressions for cruel things – one confesses itself to the principle of “reduced integration”, i.e. that is to say, one presupposes social government support to immigrants. The theme of the labour market: I have tried to say that we have to expect an increase in unemployment unless we are able to get exactly the 35-year-old founders we need. But where should they come from? All developed countries have the same problems as we do. This would be white demographic colonialism: We deduct the service providers from those countries where they are needed. On the issue of how high this migration should be, the following added: We have to want these people not to integrate. We must pay attention to the fact that they do not follow the principle of integration, because if they do, they will soon adopt our social standards and have the same birth rates. In 2001, the United Nations calculated how high immigration would have to be if integration had been achieved so that the age ratio in Germany would remain the same: By 2050, 199 million people had to move to Germany. That is absolutely absurd and not to take it seriously. So no matter how you turn it and turn it: If the birth rate remains the same as it is, no stone will remain on the other – not economically, not socially and not politically. If we want this country to have a future the way we know and love it, we will have to decide on our own children.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17062	The next item is Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17080	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to take a step from generation to generation as Senior Spokesman of the ÖVP or to describe my observations. When in the summer months the headline “War of the Generations” was blown up, I thought: Fine, now there may be some joy that we in Austria are going to get rid of such a real hack. – I can calm you down and am very calm myself that this has not happened – in contrast to Germany, where this conflict is much more heated and almost escalated. With us it has led to a dialogue of generations, and I am very pleased. The value discussion that has been conducted in recent weeks has again highlighted the locations and positions of the generations. What became clear is that of course we have quite different life prospects in front of us, but à la longue needs each other enormously – as human beings. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let me say a very personal word: I don't have children and need society, contact, the atmosphere of young people. That is why I am pleased to be able to follow these concerns, the concerns, the joys and also the triumphs of the young generation. It's still a lot ahead of them, and it's very nice for an elderly person to know that much can happen. Today it has been said that young people were able to choose what chances they might take, but today they can only choose between evils. I really hope that this has not been achieved by the work of the older generations today, because that would not be a good witness for the work of my generation. I think that today there are huge, though other opportunities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to give a small example of why I think again and again as a senior, we need to look at the boys: I was a young ice skater, and everything was short: Material and money. I needed a start dress, but my parents didn't have enough money for the whole dress. It was seniors who donated the right and left sleeves. But it was not only the financial support that so pleased me as a young runner, but that it – in my eyes – believed in me and in the performance I will bring. In my opinion, we should also signal this belief in the young generation. Sometimes the feeling is trying to convey to me that it is a bad thing Country where we live. But if we look abroad and in other areas, you really can't say that, and it's frivolous to think about us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] One point in the discussion about the seniors, who have always contributed to the support of young people – which is no longer at all in the families – is the financial assistance that is given every day or perhaps once a year. However, it is also the work done by grandparents and other family members of older years. The 60- to 85-year-olds in the families spend 21 percent of their age in the care of young and old and in volunteering functions when it comes to hourly wages. That we did not make a solidarity contribution is not true either. Since 2000, pension adjustment has changed substantially. ==References== In 2001 pensioners with higher pensions made a contribution in the interest of young people to ensure the payment-financed pension system. This contribution reaches 10.2 percent in 2004, which is € 1.5 billion per year. Therefore: Pensionist tax – no, decided solidarity contributions – yes. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to continue to ask you for a discussion of values and for accommodation: to our young generation, but also to the pensioners!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17156	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17175	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Oh, my God, dear Presbyter! Despite your comments on the pensioners, I will return to the youth and the requirements of today's urgent request. I would also like to address Mrs Minister, who has started her speech with the words today, who does not understand our desire to present education in all areas as bad. Mrs. Federal Minister! I've got to be very opposed to that. It is a necessity to point out that your work and your enforcement towards the Minister of Finance has been bad lately, in the immediate past, and that our education is not bad. I am sorry, however, especially that the savings you have triggered and started have hit our school system and our children so massively. That, despite all these savings and deteriorations, the great commitment of the teachers is still there, you can only say a warm thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The school needs to develop quite clearly, and I am very pleased about the discussion that is currently taking place in the direction of the whole day school. It is a long-standing, very massive demand for social democracy, especially in this area, not only in Vienna, where two thirds of all necessary all-day schools are already available, but throughout Austria, in order to give the young people this opportunity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They speak of opportunities and of the possibility of these opportunities. – Then do it too, Mrs. Federal Minister! Enable the freedom of choice you speak of throughout the country – the freedom of choice to attend a full day school even in the flat country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also thank you for many voices, especially the Styrian EIA, but also for the votes in the economy, which are obviously a sense with us. I would also like to thank you for this very pragmatic discussion, because many parents know why they want all day schools: because their children are well uplifted all day and are being cared for in a pedagogical way, because there is a warm lunch there, because the children come home without a school bag and then the family life in the evening receives a completely new, much better dimension and because, among other things, there is no need for further assistance because teachers are available for the children in the afternoon and work together in practice and promotion. – That is why parents want all day school, and we want to support it. But students also want all day school, because they change learning and leisure activities here to a degree that means less stress and brings more relaxation. Teachers help them in practice, which contributes to a significant improvement in the learning climate, and they have their friends all day, which is also a valuable social component. Teachers also want all day school, because social contact with students opens up a new dimension of joint work all day long. The infrastructure is more advantageous for teachers in all day schools: They have a better workplace, and modern pedagogy, open learning, joint work on the substance, all this will be possible. Mrs. Federal Minister! The wealthy parents have always known: They've always given their children all day private schools. Let us create equal opportunities here, Mrs Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17244	The next speaker is Mr Rada. The remaining speaking time of the Socialist Group is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17262	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, it would take much more time to be able to deal with all these issues that have been discussed very interestingly today. Mrs. Federal Minister! You said, in principle, that our school system is a good one. I claim it's still a good one. The findings on complete school forms are extremely poor, without wishing to appreciate them now. In Lower Austria, without now taking into account the country-city gap, the situation looks like this: There are about 150 full-day care groups. – With almost 90 000 compulsory students, this is extremely poor and too little. Mrs Schasching has discussed the pedagogical concept and has clearly explained why these school forms – and in particular the school of the whole day – are better educationally. If we still take in the learning psychology and consider how long children – and people in general – are welcome if we take the biorhythm with it, then you can no longer support traditional, traditional school form from 8 am to 13 pm or 14 pm, but then there is only one consequence, and that is the whole day school form, where lessons and leisure are alternated and where the children feel comfortable. We know from these studies that the children are up to 52 percent between 8 a.m. and 11 p.m., from 15 p.m. to 6 p.m. to 40 per cent and almost none between them. At this time, however, traditional teaching is taking place. You have also said that the five hours available for these full-day school forms are sufficient. This is certainly not the case. The only ones who have to pay are the communities. But there are many communities that cannot afford to do so. One can agree with the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Amon and Mrs Rossmann in order to support what the Federal Minister has proposed. It is far too little, but it is a first step in the right direction, because until now, for the government coalitions, school forms have been something like, very salopp formulated, in other areas, the holy water for the unmerciful.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17308	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Brinek. Other speaking time of the Austrian People's Party: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17326	Mr President. Ladies ministers! High house! Two corrections and a joint request: Cleaning and equipment conditions at the universities were not very different until this summer. – I would like to say that to the correct. According to the Rector's statement, the cleaning company for the University of Vienna – 400 000 S – flows back into the libraries, and the net contribution income of 30 to 40 million remains also for universities. I am therefore pleased to be able to submit a joint four-party resolution request, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope for further successful cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17371	This request, as far as I can see, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. In the context of this, a similar request from Mr Grünewald, Mr Broukal, has been withdrawn for universities about €15 million, because a four-party application is now in place of the two-party request. Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Other speaking time of the Greens: 3 minutes. Then there are likely to be the votes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17401	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Gehrer! I particularly welcome Mrs Rauch-Kallat, who has so far been remarkably silent in this so-called value debate, although it was essentially a debate on what values women should pursue today. At all events, this is a value debate that has come about quite strangely. Mrs. Gehrer has actually happened a slipper – I suppose – with her much famous quote about the party generation, which no longer wants to have children. In a desperate action, one has tried to stylize that into a value debate, in whose context the chancellors were highly personal in a “standard” interview to the parents – above all, he meant the mothers when looking at the practice – also suggested a renunciation. With this free letter of an exclaimed value debate, one now has from immeasurable to immeasurable – most recently also repeated in the “press hour”. Mrs Gehrer! It can't be serious. Your opinion is that only children can give meaning to a life of people, because there would be a lot of people immediately coming to mind and agree with them all the meaning of life. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She didn't say that!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP: They're talking nonsense!]] But I like to talk about values. Perhaps another comment addressed to Mrs Fuhrmann: Under the debate on values, I do not present myself with a discussion about the price of an admission ticket for pensioners or for young people for a museum. Regarding values, for example, I ask myself the question: Would I like to have someone at the top of an educational resort, a cultural and scientific resort, who represents an attitude of values with which to conjure up criticism, someone who comes with the patriotism cult? Whoever criticizes, it is said: This is not allowed, we are proud of our beautiful land! – And tomorrow I may still be told, just outside the door is a sea beach, because you decided so. In view of the debate on how it is being conducted, this will not surprise anyone. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Do we want a strict breeding master at the head of the future area of education, science and culture, or do we want to represent someone who is valued as openness, criticism, equality and self-determination? Let's talk about these values. Let us talk about why equality is not given in view of the reality of childcare, given the fact that there is no scientific reality! And that's not where I'm talking about curtain-washing. In view of the employment rate of women in Austria, which is not a top priority, as has already been said, let us talk about why equal treatment is not an issue for a future commission and what values there are behind it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Is this your debate on values?]] A few more details. Obviously, it is not the head-hanging-lassen that the least that this is accused of actually do, but the shrouds tighten the horizon. What arises from ideas or creativity is where we reach concrete decisions, anyway...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17475	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17493	... not assumed by this government. We will agree with the request for child care, which is lacking in concreteness, and are pleased that there is at least the approval of the government parties to the other request of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17524	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I ask Members to take the seats so that we can vote. We first come to the vote on the self-employed motion for a resolution 211/A (E), which is the basis of this debate, by Mr Glawischnig, on educational offensive rather than on the flat-rate diffamation of young people. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – The request does not find the necessary majority in the National Council. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues, on 10 000 additional places to go to Austria's schools in the afternoon. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this motion for a resolution concerning 10,000 additional places for midday care. – This is largely rejected. [[Abg. Oils: Against the Gehrer proposal!]] We now come to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Broukal, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues on €100 million as an immediate measure for universities. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for urgent measures for universities to give an indication of this. – The application is largely rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Amon, Mr Rossmann, Mr Rossmann, on the need for a voluntary afternoon service for students. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. . This request shall be adopted unanimously. (E 21.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Brinek, Rossmann, Broukal, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues on covering the implementation costs of the University Law 2002. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. . This request shall be adopted unanimously. (E 22.) We have therefore voted on all the proposals. The debate on the urgent request has ended. Short debate on the response to the question 722/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17584	The next item is the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Health and Women. The corresponding document has been distributed. No reading is therefore necessary. We are going into the debate. The first speaker will be given 10 minutes of speaking time. Mr Rasinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17618	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We have tabled this request because it is a very sensitive area, namely: How do we deal with people at the end of their lives? I would also like to take this issue very carefully. As a family doctor, I myself am confronted with this question every day. I also have experiences with the Lainz nursing home. I had a brother with a brain tumor. It had to be maintained there for five years. I have to say quite honestly: In these five years, although he was completely stiff, he was so well maintained that he was not even wounded. I think that must have been a world-class achievement. One has to say a great thank you to the many nurses in Vienna who do very good work. [[General condolences.]] I live directly at the Lainz nursing home, now called Geriatric Center Wienerwald, and I know very well that a lot of good is done there. There has been a new dementia station, a rehabilitation department and a very good actuaria. But we still have to see where the problems lie. First of all, there is a fundamental problem. The basic problem is that care is a huge burden. This is mainly done by women who are often physically, but also mentally totally overwhelmed. [[Abg. Mr Partik-Pablé: Mr President! You don't hear anything at all!]] Remember what it is like if you have to care for dementia or severe Parkinson's disease or stroke patients at Alzheimer's Station 37! And remember: Often there is no prospect of healing, often a further destruction takes place. Then it is often not surprising that nursing staff are more likely to disappear into other areas. It is very bad if posts are not occupied, because this automatically leads to an overload of the remaining care staff. I don't wonder that in various studies the result is that there is a high burn-out risk at these stations. In connection with the events in Lainz, however, it is not a solution if you now ask for an even more documentation. This destroys very valuable time for the care of the patient – today this is up to 30 percent – if you document more. I document everything to you, but it would actually be more important to spend more time in our health care system. However, it is precisely in the case of the Lainz proceedings that we have to ask the question of political responsibility. Is this really good leadership if you know that 70 posts are not occupied, but just nothing is done about it? Is this really good management quality of the city councillor responsible, if a very good plan is made, but it has been stored in a drawer for two years – without any discussion? The question of control is also to be asked, in the interests of those who do very, very good work, because they have not deserved to be thrown into a pot with less good workers. But of course: Black sheep are everywhere. If for two years one guard makes one input after another and is “depreciated” more or less – in Vienna, said – and only shows an invading control of maladministration, this does not exactly strengthen the confidence of the citizens in such instances. And the first reaction of Mrs. Town Councillor Pittermann was very "important," she said: It's all right, and it's all over once. – In this way, one should not address the solution of a problem that checks should first be ignored or underestimated in principle. [[Abg. May. Lapp: That's not true! She's shown!]] What does the future look like? And: What can we learn from these processes? – In 2040, there will be twice as many older people and three times as many people as today, so people who need care services very much. In Austria, there are already about 540 000 patients who need care, and you have to say: In the homes only 15 percent of the caregivers can be cared for. So that means: 85 percent of workers are taken care of at home. And there is the problem that in the group of the elderly, the number of relatives and the so-called daughter-care potential, just because of the low birth rate, are more likely to decrease. Is that why home is the solution? Yes – and no. Homes will always have to be a solution, and they must be so equipped that they are well accepted by the citizens as well; of course, care must also be in order there. We must, however, deal with the following three points. First: We need to strengthen care on the spot. President-in-Office of the Council, Khol, has made himself very worthy of this, especially in the context of his writings as a citizen. – And: In my opinion, neighborhood aid must be combined with professional assistance. Especially the Wiener ÖVP has very good models related to neighborhood centres. On the one hand, there are a lot of people who are 50 or 60 years old and would like to help – and on the other hand, many people who need help. We need to develop this system of “circuit of humanity, ” for we cannot deal with everything just by means of professional assistance. That's impossible! We also need a very good system of domestic doctors who, as Mrs Rauch-Kallat likes to say, are health managers on site. We will probably need very different solutions than large nursing homes, for example, care apartments et cetera. In any case, we will have to be very creative. Secondly, We must try to ensure that people need little or no late care. I'll give you an example. In Austria there are 20,000 new diseases due to strokes; 60,000 patients have survived a stroke. One can prevent – or otherwise formulated: If you don't mind, then a stroke will occur like a natural event sometime. But one can try to minimize this “natural event”, which sometimes has to occur, by, for example, paying attention to and treating blood pressure, for example, by, for example, reducing cholesterol levels or also doing something against nicotine consumption by doing something for sufficient exercise. So that means: There are many measures to ensure that people do not get sick as late or as sick as possible. Further example: Osteoporosis. In Austria, the number of cervical fractures is 15 000 per year. It is crucial to be operated on quickly – however, even more decisive would be the fact that people are also performing gymnastics in old age and that they have high-calcium food. In my opinion, this is a sensible health policy, one that can move the time of need for care. We will not be able to afford it – the staff we do not have for this – that people, whatever their desire, are in need of care for six, seven, eight years or more. This time has to be kept short. The WHO slogan “Adding life to years”, meaning aging so, is a truly meaningful saying. Thirdly, Rehabilitation. It's not crucial that someone get a clean white bed, but it's crucial to get him out of bed. In 1990 we took part in the government programme: stroke care as rehabilitation services. That took years, but today we rehabilitate a lot of people – and this at world-class level. What does that mean for the individual? – 50 percent of those who are rehabilitated will save care; they can move themselves. Further: We were very strong in an answer at the end of life, that we just didn't say we're going the Dutch way that everyone can wish for their own death more or less, but we said: We're going another way, one towards hospice movement, towards care care care. And I think that this is a very gentle and sensible way, especially when compared to other countries that are rationalizing or at the end of life just too close to the citizen, so to speak, to say goodbye to himself. Each of us can be affected tomorrow; really everyone! Many have relatives who need care. And whoever has ever been in such a situation knows how important it is to get help, and he appreciates it when he is helpless, all the more, being cared for humanly. In this sense, I think it makes sense to continue working there.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17691	Ms Rauch-Kallat spoke on the issue of an opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes in this case either. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17710	Mr President. High house! At the beginning of my remarks, let me say that I too, as well as all others, was very affected by the processes at the Lainz nursing home, but also at the Baumgartner nursing home, of the incidents that have become known in recent weeks and months. We all have the highest interest in getting to a quick investigation of the actual causes of these failures. Leave But you also tell me, ladies and gentlemen, right at the beginning that we must not forget about the discussion that many thousands of elderly and well-informed people in Austrian nursing homes are excellently accommodated and well cared for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On this occasion, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to all nurses who take on this difficult task for caring for and caring for people in their last weeks and months in a sacrificeful manner. In the course of the discussion on this scandal, we have been confronted with several factors, especially the situation of Lainz himself, including the legal status of Lainz. According to media reports, the status of Lainz as a nursing home has obviously been questioned, and the classification of Lainz, whether it is a nursing home or a hospital, has been publicly relevated. Of course, I immediately arranged reviews and, since there are no protocols from the previous years, by my predecessors, in the Federal Ministry of Health of Vienna, asked Dr. Michael Häupl, in a letter to Mr. Landeshupmann of Vienna, to give us the appropriate information about the legal status of Lainz, because this, of course, entails appropriate implications, both in terms of supervision and control as well as in terms of costs. I have not yet received the answer, the deadline is up to today. But I think that I will have this answer very soon and that it will then have the consequences to do so. In general, however, it must be our concern to identify the causes of this scandal. Obviously, he is due to personal shortcomings in the care staff, but above all to shortcomings in the supervision of the care staff in the said hospitals, shortcomings in the management of these hospitals or in management. However, we must in general ensure that, in the future, in particular with a reorganisation of training and further training through the continuous qualification of the care staff, this perspective is also offered by exchange perspectives within the care professions, so that, on the one hand, the profession becomes more attractive and, on the other hand, people who have worked in this profession for many years are relieved by the possibility of another employment; they may return after some time. We know that in Austria, due to demographic development, we will have a high need for care staff in the next few years. And we know that we need to increase the attractiveness of this profession. This applies, on the one hand, to primary education – we are currently working on a corresponding innovation of the training regulation in order to make this profession attractive in a modular system for young people – but at the same time we will also focus on the second course of education in order to facilitate, above all, the transition of women, but also men after the family phase, and to enable them to achieve a high level of qualification in this profession. This concerns not only caregivers but also diploma training. It must be our concern to adapt the possibilities of the labour market service for high-qualification measures in order to meet the actual needs of domestic workers, but at the same time, where there is a lack of qualified staff, through a transfer of qualified care staff to the key staff quota, to enable qualified staff from neighbouring countries or from other countries, if necessary, to get to Austria. In any case, we have put a focus on care security. I invited Mr Herbert Haupt and the State Secretary Ursula Haubner to a “care insurance meeting” in consultation with the relevant Vice-Chairman. We will work together on a National Action Plan to ensure care. Ladies and gentlemen! We must be concerned about solving the problems in this area, which is so important for Austria, across all political groups. I also very much hope for the cooperation of the federal states responsible for this. the nursing homes, to ensure the care and the costs of care. In this sense, I hope for good cooperation in this area. – Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17785	We are now going into the debate. Each group shall be entitled to a speech. The speaking time is 5 minutes each. Mrs Christine Marek. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17812	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For weeks now, we have been learning from the media more and more tragic details about how people in need of care in the city of Vienna are doing. The fact that the red city government repeatedly points to the stressed and so much praised social competence is just as real-life refusal for me as the position of the responsible or, I would rather say, irresponsible and competent city councillor Pittermann. Among her became the reality of the two-class medicine that the SPÖ had always feared. There are those patients who are better off thanks to relatives, and those who have the wrong to have no relatives. But not only the situation of the caregivers has been the main theme in the last few weeks and days, but also the incredible working conditions of the employees in the nursing homes, indebted by an incompetent councillor, who does not think anything but cleans up with their officials. Pittermann assigns the responsibility to the Deputy Director General of the Kaspar Hospital Association via the media, which in turn gives the Binkerl to the care management in Lainz, and so on. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The scandal is unlikely!]] – Management and solution expertise in Vienna of the finest, I can only say there! And instead of finally really responding, she sees nothing but saying in the “Kronen Zeitung” that she is very keen on controlling. - Great! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With all this incredible responsibilitylessness, the employees who do their best in the nursing homes are really on the line. In Lainz alone, 70 plan posts are not occupied, which the union has already criticized in March of this year. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: A scandal!]] The chronic shortage of staff has been subject to numerous complaints, letters – much quoted in the media – for years now to Pittermann and her predecessor Rieder. However, nothing has changed to the positive. Ladies and gentlemen! It is common knowledge of the effects of continuous stress. Erwin Rasinger has responded. If then strong mental and physical stress, which is easy in the care profession, comes along, then unfortunately something happens – just like now in Vienna. The Minister of Health has also announced in the response to the question the preparation of a National Action Plan for Care. In Vienna, however, concrete approaches are unfortunately more than overdue, but far and wide not to be seen. The city of Vienna must provide the necessary resources as soon as possible to eliminate the shortage of personnel. In addition, however, the possibility of voluntary rotation within the Hospital Association must be offered so that staff can also serve in less stressful areas than the Geriatry's care area. Ladies and gentlemen! Instead of just announcing controls, working conditions must be evaluated and improved and further reformed, because otherwise, what is already apparent, fewer and less people will choose to choose this professional image of care. Finally, I can only recommend City Councillor Pittermann very urgently to finally stop with this unbearable attempt by the employees in the nursing homes of the city of Vienna, because this, ladies and gentlemen, really did not deserve the employees there. [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: Step back!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17882	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e17900	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs Marek would have to stay in her constituency more often, then she would not have escaped the development in the Franz-Joseph-Spital with the establishment of a new Geriatric Centre, and she would not have drilled into a subject where the incidents were revealed, where the incidents were being treated and dealt with. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where is the consequence? Where is the consequence?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is your scandal! Social Democratic scandal!]] - Do you want to talk now? Then please enter in the list! [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, maybe superior!]] I would now like to talk about a taboo theme in our society, because sickness, old age, disability are in a society where wellness, fitness and youth are priorities, not a topic in public discussion. [[Abg. May. Molterer:... Pittermann scandal!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: No word on this scandal!]] These are taboo issues, and we should really try to discuss them objectively. I know you can't always easily follow an objective discussion. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is about creating a uniform vocational training in the care sector. [[Abg. Scheibner: You! Stop with your superiority! Say something to this scandal!]] It is about strengthening these families when 80 percent of the family members in our country are in need of care. It is about developing quality criteria for care. [[Abg. May. Molterer: And otherwise everything is okay in Vienna?- Oh, my God!]] It is a matter of providing day care for caregivers so that the needy family members can be accommodated there. And there must also be the possibility of a holiday of care. It is important that a home contract law is drawn up. And we have already submitted a draft a few years ago that is very much in line with the human rights requirements for residents in homes. High house! The events in Vienna are being reworked. There's an investigation committee. The control office has been switched on, and changes are being made. But there is a report from the federal state of Tyrol, where residents of homes come out only five times a year, where they have no great opportunities for personal care et cetera. These incidents in Tyrol are not perceived and not processed. [[Abg. Wittauer: It is for the first time that I hear that! If it is, I will...!]] The answer to Mrs Minister's question is: “The treatment of people with disabilities, old and sick is the measure of the social conscience of a society.” – These are beautiful sentences on a facade. Behind the facade is the social desert in the ÖVP FPÖ government. This hypocrisy of the facade is a characteristic of the ÖVP government policy. [[Abg. Grandruck: You have a scandal, but the others are guilty!]] These are signs that hypocritical and hollow phrases determine politics. In addition, social reduction, health reduction measures such as the introduction of self-maintenance, accident pension taxation and pension adjustments under the inflation rate determine the reality for very, very many people in our country. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I want to devote a little more to this hypocrisy. So it was said here that it is important that more care staff be provided. And this care staff cannot be found in Vienna because a restrictive immigration policy is being made by this Federal Government. [[Abg. May. Molterer: My God, well!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is immense!]] Caregivers are not quoted as key workers and therefore cannot be employed and cannot take care of. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Vienna spends € 405 million on care and care. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Reasons!]] The federal government spends the threefold of it, but it has a much larger budget. In Vienna – and you will not know that, ladies and gentlemen – relatives are not used to finance the care of their family members. There is, I believe, only another federal state in our state in which this is so. [[Abg. Großruck: Not even in Upper Austria!]] They recognise this: The hypocrisy of the Federal Government can easily be revealed! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The social Vienna is still fixed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out a scandalous e-card on the website of ÖVP Vienna, which says that old people are treated in nursing homes like animals. This is the summit of tastelessness and another example of the hypocrisy of the ÖVP! Withdraw this and return to the subject-political debate!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18163	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Also speaking time 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18181	Ladies and gentlemen! As we have clearly seen, the method of socialist majority in the city hall in Vienna will continue here. It is pretended as if there was no scandal at all, as if everything were all right. It's said: Families should be strengthened, help for the family and so on. But that once criticism of your own SPÖ group is practiced in the town hall, this is simply not happening here! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I admit, Mrs Lapp, that you have an extremely serious state of affairs, because to defend such abuses, as they have happened in Lainz, under a social democratic government, is, of course, something that really hurts very much! They always want to be the social ones! They always claim that the Federal Government had declared the “social cold. ” In fact, it is you who cause the social cold! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I saw yesterday, as perhaps some of you, in the “Report” a very interesting experiment: Nurses and nurses have made a simulation. Part of the caregivers are slipped into the role of the elderly and sick, another part of the caregivers has taken over the role of the caregiver, namely the negative caregiver. The old people who couldn't go anymore have been given strong orders, it's been talked to them as if they were real chappies. They have been asked to do things that they simply can't do – and all of this in a very, very rough tone. I really wanted to see Mayor Häupl, Mrs. Stadtratin Pittermann and others who are responsible for nursing in Vienna participate in such a simulation. By the way, I have already wished for this, if I go through Vienna with the wheelchair, because the mayor is once putting such a wheelchair through Vienna. Then he would see what social Vienna really offers to the elderly, the sick and the disabled, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You would finally be sensitized for the great task you have, for the task of enabling those old people who have no more of the family that could care for them to live a decent life in the old homes. Then you'd see what people really want! But once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to this simulation: I believe that the many hundreds or even thousands of caregivers who do their job properly should not be thrown into a pot with the negative growths. There are many caregivers who, despite the most difficult conditions, enable many people in old age homes to have a decent existence. But what really shook me, not only here in Parliament, but also in the whole debate since the discovery of the scandal, is that, when the first signs were to be seen that such a scandal was going on again, neither Mrs. Stadtratin Pittermann nor Chief of State Haupl, who has the highest competence for the nursing homes, responded. [[Abg. May. Molterer: unlikely!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: scandal!]] They have been arrogantly swept away, just as arrogantly, as Mrs Lapp has dealt with the whole issue today, the many calls which many questions at the town hall have simply failed to observe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The real coronation is that Mrs. City Councillor Pittermann said yesterday that she wanted to break down the health system by the politicians of the other parties they criticized, and they would just build it up! So you have to ask yourself: Have the town hall socialists really lost the sense of reality? That's where you really have to ask. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Yes, they do!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is particularly important to assign the debt to the covenant. Just as Mrs Lap has also said to Mrs. City Councillor Pittermann that the strict immigration policy of the Federal Government is due to the fact that there is no foreign labour force. Here, in this newspaper, I think, are offering twelve trained home helpers who would like to work in a nursing home. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] But these don't find work, they won't be taken! No, no, no, [[Call the ÖVP: Because they don't have a party book!]] Cheap workers, foreign workers, with whom they cannot even talk, are supposed to be the old people. It must also be seen that this is unworthy of human beings. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I'll be right there. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat has found that there is a need for improvement in care. - That's right! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I think it is urgent to move to the rotation principle, because it is simply not possible to make this difficult task a lifetime to live a career.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18303	The four political groups have not yet... – I would almost have closed the debate now, and Mr Greenewald is still speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18327	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Grossruck, you will not hear a scientific talk, I will start very unscientific. I believe that old people and their situation must be so much worth to us that we do not only talk about it when a peak of an iceberg appears and something is in the paper, and not only if one can beat political change from it. What I notice, Mr Rasinger: Your request was made on 15 May. ==References== The answer to the request is not as usual, after two months – in smoke-callat it might go a little faster – but in the record time of seven days, on 22. September. [[Abg. Oils: But that's fast! But it's going very fast!]] I trust you that you are always so fast, but you will still be allowed to think about it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I answer all the questions in two days!]] In short: I believe that health and care deficits are not typical of Vienna. Vienna is big, and purely statistically, something will happen more often. I think this is statistically normal, and I would not like to call it normal in any other respect. Nor am I the press speaker of the Primaria Pittermann – nor do I want to be. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That’s what I think!]] I also do not believe that we need to defend these states, rather we have to analyze these states and draw conclusions from them. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There's an ad to the prosecutor's office, and then you do it beautiful?- Oh, my God!]] I don't like anything! Please! [[Abg. Scheibner:... what you said now! We like that!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I have said that I do not want to be the press speaker of Mrs Primaria. So, if one had one's senses in Parliament, at least one's ear, I would be required in a debate! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think you have to be very careful about bringing the staff to the front line of fire, because I have an idea of what it means to care for old people. And if in the night or in the non regular working time, in which the same number of caretakers is to be cared for in these homes, these are cared for by a tenth of the per sonal, you can imagine what that means. And that the EIA should and should be allowed to do something here, I would like to present to you now on the basis of a really exciting thing. There is a so-called Tyrolean minute key, which is the key of the Tyrolean state government to staffing in old and care homes. Listen! – Freeze: 2 minutes. Manicure: 2 minutes. Pedicure: 2 minutes. Enter lunch: Seven minutes. [[Abg. Wittauer: Social Democrats are also in this state government!]] – Have you ever eaten lunch in 7 minutes, even if you are not a bite carrier or a bite carrier? - I don't think so. Eye and mouth care... – This is country matter. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is at the country level...!]] You don't need to explain that to me; I know, and also Mrs. Rauch-Kallat knows. And here we come to the second evil: these are the division of competence in the health and care sector. The care sector is national competence because it seems to have nothing to do with health. But please explain to me: Are nurses healthy? Does this have nothing to do with health or illness? But it's state business, and there's a country key. I've read a home law, which says: The holding of birds and feeding of the same is forbidden for domestics. And whoever isn't at 5:00 a.m. at dinner has no right to a warm dinner. – This too is still in home laws! And a federal law of homes fails to do obstinate sayings because there is no competence of the covenant in this regard! I mean, You just have to see that you get her! [[Abg. Wittauer: That's where the Austrian Convention has a task!]] I am allowed to read again from the “minute key”, in which it is said that at night a person is responsible for 30 nurses. That's where I ask you: When a sick person is ringing, and she needs something acute, what does the sister or caregiver do when three others ring? Spiritually disadvantaged old people often ask every 5 minutes how late it is. Should you stop going, because she asked five times, even though she might have something else, and then you look over it? That is, if old people are worth something to us, we have to get this in the budget. If that's not the case, nothing will happen. So you need care keys where you don't call on comic international data, in the face of which everyone says: This is monstrosity, what is to be done here! Turn on 1 minute radio, 5 minutes of conversation per patient a day! – Do you know how the persons concerned deprivatize psychologically? Do you know that after the first six months of teaching in nursing homes, almost 15 percent of these people died? So please: If we don't just care about Vienna, we take care of all Austria and all the old people!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18494	I can conclude the debate on the answer to the question. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18512	We return to the agenda and take the 4th. Agenda item again. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trunk. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18536	Mr President, I should like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! I think, in contrast to the very legitimate dissent on matters of dealing with older people, on matters of social, economic and educational policy it seems – it seems! – give something like a consensus on the handling of compensation and reparation for victims of disasters. I say quite consciously, “there seems to be a superficial consensus. ” Why “seems ”? – Because there is no consensus on the need for an appropriate evaluation of the use of the disaster fund. I refer in this connection to the catastrophic storms in the previous year. If you look at these operations and the use of disaster funds – better to say: Not used so far – looking at, then you ask the question: Why are still applications being postponed by those concerned between the Federal Government and the countries today? Mr Gäsner, the mayor of one of the most affected communities in the previous year. Secondly, Colleagues Auer obviously did not understand the remarks made by Mr Matznetter for intellectual reasons, because Mr Matznetter pointed out that this Federal Government had no means of providing for disaster prevention in the classical sense. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mrs Colleague, what is that supposed to mean?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mrs Colleague, I would ask you to apologize!]] That is to say, it is better and more efficient to use funds in the field of wildlife and avalanche cultivation in advance rather than later to benefit from disaster funds. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: I expect an excuse for the insult of Mr Auer!]] I think that's not consensus. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, you become nervous and hectic. Why is there no consensus on more resources for the cultivation of wildlife and avalanche? That would be living prevention and good policy. Third area: In connection with the enormous damage caused by the storms in Carinthia on 29 and 30. On the occasion of the opening of the Kärntner Autumn Fair, there was a declaration by the Federal Chancellor on August 30. The Federal Chancellor announced – later, in the Financial Committee, the Secretary of State for Finance argued with other figures – that there was €1 million in compensation for the flood victims in the Gail valley. What is the truth? – The truth is that €500 000 were decided in March of this year. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Mrs. Colleague, you were never in the Gail Valley at all!]] In March! I do not assume that the Federal Government has light-seen abilities and the storms on 29 and 30. August can be predicted. So these funds were intended for other disasters and resulting damage. That is, now, in September, in these days, we have got the first tranche of this €500 000, which can be used for others and not for the catastrophic storms in the Gail valley and in the other communities. That is why I assume that if this consensus of victim aid is not really just a superficial and verbally formulated one at trade fairs openings, the colleagues from ÖVP and FPÖ, including from the other federal states, will agree to our motion for a resolution, because at the previous meeting, Mr Scheuch and Mr Scheucher from Carinthia also made an appropriate request. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is easy to notice: Scheuch and Scheucher!]] - Yes, a strange duet. I may make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Have we done everything, Mrs. Colleague! It's all done! The summer break's over!]] – Mr Scheuch, you have obviously been since 30. No longer in Carinthia, otherwise you could not give of such a nonsensus.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18753	Ladies and gentlemen! First, let's calm down a little. Secondly, the motion for a resolution, which has been read here, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation – regardless of whether it is already done or not. Thirdly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18777	Mr President. High house! As I said in the Financial Committee, some €500 000 has already been transferred to the country of Carinthia on request, and about € 1 million will soon be transferred to pay off the damage to private property. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With regard to the demands concerning financial assistance for the reconstruction of the destroyed parish church of Vorderberg, it should be noted that no application has been received by the Federal Ministry of Finance by the country of Carinthia. There should be an application to determine the exact extent of damage, so it's a Carinthian thing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18810	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: also 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18828	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The last year, as we know, has provided us with exceptional rainfall, which has ultimately led to the known flood disaster. There were enormous damage to physical and also legal persons, to the hab and wealth of these persons, many people came to harm in these floodlands, and of course there were also huge damage to the public regarding the infrastructure. In order to eliminate the damage to goods and property, 250 million € were planned in accordance with § 2 of last year's flood compensation and reconstruction law. The same amount according to § 3 of the same law was intended for the reconstruction of the infrastructure, i.e. € 500 million, which was given to the disaster fund as additional resources. In the case of the novel, the amount of these compensation payments is to remain unaffected. There should be a retransposition, and there is certainly the need and the expediency to do so. After handling these damage, it is known that in the field of Hab and Gut there is a loss of around € 53 million. On the basis of the notifications from the countries and the figures announced, we also know that some €90 million was needed for infrastructure rather than was originally adopted; this is the Federal share for the solution of damage to the infrastructure of the countries and communities. I therefore think it makes sense for this retransformation to take place. Dear ladies and gentlemen! One year after this disaster, which has hit many, I do not want to hide that I am glad that the damage was proportionate and the proportion of the average was twice as high as in the case of nearly comparable or comparable disasters before. And I do not want to miss a year later to thank again from this point of view all those Austrians who have demonstrated their congratulation and solidarity. My thanks also go to the Austrian Federal Army, to the aid organizations and, above all, to those who were seriously affected by these damage, whether they were private persons with their homes, their apartments, whether they were companies with their businesses, business buildings and facilities. Many directly affected people have said after a short time of shock: We shrew the sleeves up, we pick them up again, and we have contributed a lot to restoring the former state, preventing deportations, maintaining jobs. I am grateful to all those who have not bothered these efforts, who have taken on these efforts and have not resigned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18868	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. The watch is gladly set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18886	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As already pointed out, we are also in favour of this request for retransmission of the funds to the heading ‘Hab and Gut’. The question of drought aid for agriculture is also, of course, a central issue. Finally, people in agriculture are the main victims of climate change, as has already been mentioned. In this context, however, I would like to remind you that Commissioner Fischler has in his own way put the possibility of early collection of funding, so that at the end of August, at the beginning of September, the funding for the animal premiums or the crop balance, i.e. the funds that farmers urgently need so that they are liquid, are paid out in advance. It wasn't used. I would like to point out once again this really serious abuse. Nevertheless, the € 3 million of drought aid is of course a right decision for agriculture. Mr Auer, you have rightly referred particularly to the question of precautionary measures, to the question of the human economy, to the question of retention in the area. In the context as a whole, you have to think about where to switch here, because the answer cannot be the one you have put in the room here, namely solely the insurance solution as the only way to go. We know that insurance is the best indicator for the fact that we really have a massive climate change. Insurance costs have increased dramatically over the last ten years, precisely because of the increased risk. Because the number of disasters is increasing, because the conditions of nature are quite simply more severe than before, it is necessary to implement in principle climate change measures and to really pursue root policy. That would be on the agenda now, Mr Auer, and we would expect some of the Federal Government. We'll wait, we'll wait. When will the future proposals for a genuine climate policy come? This would also help agriculture, and this would be a small and important contribution towards precautionary policy so that these disasters do not occur to this extent. You will say that is not possible with political action. Let me give you an example from the water area: We've had floods last year, this dry weather. Over 30 years with targeted drainage policy, canalization et cetera, the rapid drain of water from the landscape has been massively operated. Water is diverted very quickly into the rivers, the flow speeds of the water have increased, colleague Auer, and that is exactly the problem for agriculture: When the water coming from above quickly flows out of the landscape, it is clear that the drought becomes a major problem very quickly. It is therefore necessary to reroute the entire urban water economy. We have also repeatedly pointed out that river reconstruction will be one of the central tasks of the future for the settlement water economy. This question has not been raised so far, even there I would expect proposals from the government side. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to address some of the current aspects of agricultural policy. My colleague Heidi Rest-Hinterseer will certainly come to the WTO conference in Cancun, where she took part. The implementation of the agricultural reform in Austria is still open. I expect Mr Pröll to present proposals in this regard. In this context, a massive criticism of your first step of implementation, namely the distribution of the free A quota of 36 000 tonnes. This A-Quote has been allocated exclusively to holdings which have already purchased a quota or leased throughout the last three years. Thus, once again the large farms are the beneficiaries, while the small farmers, and especially the large mass of dairy farmers, do not receive a single litre of additional quota. That's incredible! This measure, or this regulation, would be taken back urgently by Federal Minister Pröll. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18943	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gaßner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e18962	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to the need for disaster-damaged assistance to help them, they will always find social democracy at their side. We will vote in favour of this proposal, but I already have a number of questions on flood compensation. You could get the impression, now we've all taken up the damage, now we're counting, and then it's over. A lot of damage, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, continue to act. Still private people and say that and I haven't taken that into account yet. In Upper Austria, these damages can still be accounted for until 2004. That is why I ask you, Mr State Secretary: How do you actually have this total amount of damage? People are wondering: What do we actually get? The Secretary of State has told us in committee between 20 and 30 percent, perhaps up to 80 percent. People are totally insecure. Do you know what the people are most insecure? – If the injured person has now announced his damage and then gets 40 percent compensation from me, then he has to take 60 percent into account in order to get the compensation at all. Do you know what that means? – That means that some who have gone into the flood with debt, so to speak, must now make new debts in order to get this 40 percent. So there is still a very, very large uncertainty factor included. Another question I have to ask is the infrastructure. We are now layering the funds for restoring the infrastructure to the private – should be so. But even in terms of infrastructure, we certainly do not know all the damage. There is a canal broken every day and again a road piece is completely deformed, because only now the whole thing is going back to the groundwater. So here too, Mr State Secretary, I think we are still a little premature with a final acceptance of damages. In addition, the municipalities of course have to pay for these infrastructure measures now and wait for the money. On the question to the country: What's going on, why don't you pay off? The covenant doesn't pay! The answer to the question to the federal government is: We paid! – So the communities are sent in the circle. There are certainly still a few things that we are not prepared to do and that we will still be able to do. And third, Mr. State Secretary: Where are the resources for preventive flood protection? They're missing! If we do not decide to really think about predictive flood protection, then we will – I hope not! – one day sit back here and talk about how much we compensate people. These funds must be made available, Mr State Secretary. What is the meaning of forward-looking flood protection? – This means river concepts from the source to the mouth, i.e. retention room, i. flood room, i.e. shore fixtures, i.e., wehr descents, i.e. bridge new buildings. I could give you a long list of further measures – but the money is missing, no money is planned for them. Therefore, on behalf of Social Democracy, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, another financing proposal. Throughout the year, from August of the previous year to this year, we have heard: Because the flood disaster was so enormous, the Federal Government spontaneously abandoned six Eurofighters. – The flood victims are still waiting for this money. Six Eurofighters make up about 600 million euros. Do you know what else we could do with that? – We could compensate the flood victims for 80 percent more and take measures for the future. However, I would ask you to do so soon to release these funds, because the Eurofighters we do not know whether they actually fly will be less valuable every day.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19039	The motion for a resolution on financial resources for preventive flood protection, which Mr Gaßner has read, is properly signed, is under negotiation and is being voted. Mrs Restenserer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. The watch is gladly set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19062	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I now no longer want to refer to the facts relating to flood and drought victims, because I believe that everyone agrees anyway and that they are d’accord. However, I do not wish to fail to point out the disastrous development of the world after my return from Cancun. This year, in the summer, in May, America brought 526 Tornados to a new record. ==References====External links== In India, the pro-mono-unheat is now life-threatening with 49 degrees and has already claimed 1,400 people's lives. Leading climate researchers confirm that these are the first signs of human-induced climate change. Austria's Alps feel this too. This is what I have noticed this year during alpine hikes in the Krimmler Achental: The cows can only be driven over the stream more in all the her God-earth, because later the ake will be so high through the gray glacier water that the cows no longer trust in themselves. This also threatens the foundations of our economic system. Tourism, agriculture on the one hand, but also electricity production and water supply will no longer be possible in today's form. These growing disasters face a negative balance of climate policy. With a view to achieving the Kyoto target, which provides for the reduction of CO2 emissions by 13 percent by the 2008/2012 target, Austria is already one of the EU locklights. While the emissions of the six greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol fell by 4 per cent in the EU average between 1990 and 1999, they rose by 2.7 per cent in Austria and amounted to 79.2 million tonnes in 1999. In the case of pure CO2 emissions, which account for 80 percent of EU greenhouse gas emissions, the Austrian trend is even more negative: By 5.9 percent, equivalent to 3.7 million tonnes, they have increased in our country in the 1990s. – CO2 emissions fell by 1.6% across the EU in the 1990s. Austria was once an environmental model country! ==References====External links== ==References== On August 3, 2003, the threshold was above 36 days; this was done at 67 measuring points – for the first time also in the Lungau. This morning, Mr Keuschnigg, in the debate on the reduction of truck emissions, said that our action, namely the greening-up of this state, was “actionist” and was carried out “on the back of the population”. – Mr. Keussnigg, I will be authentically sending this message to the Lungauer population. You may then send you the latest report on the mortality in Zederhaus, so that you also know what people are experiencing there. To the climate killer traffic. We have to talk about it again – that was the reason for our current hour today –: In Austria there is a 155,000-kilometre road network. If you add the forest roads used by trucks, it is 275,000 miles. This causes us to have an immense have large sealing of areas with roads, parking spaces and similar facilities. And this, in turn, means that water no longer drains, that water cannot be bound even in groundwater. At the same time, the construction activity in the transport routes leads to large-scale dehydration, because it acts like a drainage. In addition, we have problems with the water that is contaminated with dew. According to Umweltbundesamt, 27 percent of all Austrian groundwater deposits have to be considered as endangered; in Lower Austria and Burgenland, it is 58 percent. I have taken the water quality report from me that these are also precisely those areas that are particularly vulnerable to the biological quality of the flow water in Austria. That is to say, we have at the same time many consequences of a single cause, namely this climate change, which we do not want to respond to. This is similar to nuclear power: Unless something quite disastrous happens to many millions of people, no steps will be taken. For the Pacific island states, which are also WTO members, it may not be possible then. They are only five meters above sea level, and have signed their protest with the US because they have not joined the Kyoto Protocol. But I fear, until the USA and also we, the other industrialized countries, have realized that a change in our policy is urgently necessary, it will unfortunately be too late for these island states.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19136	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19154	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I too would like to deal with the form or the type of compensation, since in particular with the rupture compensation, i.e. for the lost rupture. Colleagues Auer said today that they were all damaged – and that's right! The question for me and many affected farmers with whom I was able to speak was how much the problem was. In Upper Austria, there is my information according to areas where food has always had to be purchased – without drought disaster. But now the farmers in all the areas of Upper Austria, where the second and third cuts are completely lost due to the drought, do not have to sell the support money for the purchase of feed. That is why, Mr Finz, the question for me is how to find a different model in the future, and a model for me is about the strength of the problem. As I said, One can come out with 20 or 30 percent of support, but for another, this can be harmful to existence – a shared system in which support is paid after actual concern, so that farmers are not forced to sell livestock. Mr State Secretary, I would also like to ask that, in the event of natural disasters, we receive interim reports on the state of payments or the outstanding payments, so that we are all informed of the situation of the farmers concerned – and above all, what financial resources need to be made liquid from other areas, so to speak. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19202	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19221	Mr President. High house! First of all, on the issue of drought raised by Mrs Hagenhofer. All the federal states are mainly affected by the drought in the Greenland, but only sub-areas in the federal states of Salzburg and Tyrol. We are already striving for an insurance model for the future. So far, there has been a great problem that there has been no adequate system for measuring drought. However, for two years there has been a research project that will be completed in 2004, which could then form the basis of insurance from 2005. If the resources now available are not sufficient, the countries in which a regulation can be found will still have to be clarified. Either the countries are going to do something, or the existing resources are being distributed differently according to the more requested applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19251	The next speaker is Mr Hannes Bauer. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19269	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! First of all: I am very glad that in this House, as well as in the Austrian population, there is the basic consensus that if a disaster occurs, solidarity will be helped. That's very important. In the previous year and also partly this year there were flood damage, especially drought damage. It should always be helped in the event of disasters, because this is decent and, of course, it is a matter of course. But what I mean is that with this help we can only cover part of the problem. In my view, the second and much more important part is this preventive protection, which can be seen on the one hand in the achievement of the Kyoto objective and other environmental objectives and on the other hand in preventive flood protection. I believe that as the funds are far too small, this active flood protection can be done over the next ten years. That's the one area. If we always say that the funds will also be increased by the countries and so on, I believe that all this is true, that there are protection projects, but it is true that, for example, overall planning in terms of flood protection, land use and so on, there is no or only rudimentary in most countries. We all need to know that water needs space, and yet many see flood only as a punctual event. We do not go to the source, so to speak, and consider the river as a whole, because only then is active flood protection possible, because the “freight” can already be thrown off until the estuary. That is the decisive! In this area too, there is too little land use planning. I believe that it should be one of the great tasks of the future to operate active flood protection integrated. I would like to say once again that the work that is now being done on the basis of the events always corresponds to the same picture: The closer the event is, the more active you work on it. The longer the event is back, the less active it is. Then you drive this flood protection. And it is not only a matter of flood protection, but of course also the communities that have an active contribution to make in terms of spatial planning. I think it is irresponsible that there are still houses in pure drainage areas, in the red zone, which are extremely dangerous when floods occur. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lentic.]] – It is now true that in the land-dwelling plan, you also need to create appropriate space reserves, which the flood can then ultimately claim. Finally, I would like to say something about it: We should finally learn to live with nature and not to live against nature. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you realize this, then you have to say that much of what is being done today cannot actually work because the overall context is far too little, both in planning and in concrete implementation of the measures. Everyone knows that it is better to prevent than to have to repeatedly deal with damage from those who still cause immense human suffering. Much of this could be saved, and appropriate measures would also be taken in the organisational field, namely land planning and spatial planning. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19333	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Is it not a mistake that only 2 minutes of speaking time are planned? - Okay. [[Abg. Ing. Gartlehner: No!]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19366	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I also made a small contribution in the context of this flood disaster debate, and it has just been noted that due to the particularly severe damage recovery projects take longer time than was originally planned. And so there are still larger projects which have not yet been taken into account with the disaster aid and which, for this reason, have not yet been able to close the gap of total costs in the rehabilitation process, a BÜRGES credit because they do not yet know the final costs. I would therefore like to make a request which has the following content: [[Quoted print version removed]] In a conversation with my fellow Members, Mr Stumbling and Mr Molterer, I have come to the view that it will be possible to reach a solution here. I would ask you, Mr State Secretary, also to document your efforts in this direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19418	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Gartlehner concerning the extension of the deadline for the application of Bürges-Krebiten in the context of flood rehabilitation loans is properly filed, is under negotiation and comes to the vote. Next word: Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19439	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Trunk, I do not know why you are always arguing so aggressively and excitedly here. They are also always noticed by toxic press reports. I don't understand this destructive course because it doesn't really bring us on either – nor when it comes to such a serious topic as aid for the disaster area in Carinthia. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs Trunk, you can be sure that we Members of the Kärntner Group will be very careful to ensure that those funds, which are intended for this purpose and which have been promised and promised locally even after the damage has been done, will flow. Mr Scheuch has already pointed out: We already have 2nd place. A motion for a resolution on this subject, Mrs Colleague, on 2 September, tabled a motion for a resolution on the subject. September! - Fine! [[Abg. May. Trunk: We too!]] That is why I also think we should try together to bring this over constructively. But that alone is too little. I have now asked myself more about it. In the Federal Ministry of Finance, it is now already fixed that on 20 July. On October 1 million € will be transferred on the basis of this item. The Secretary of State has also noted this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] - Of course! It's now meeting the damage detection commission. And if private damage is detected, the corresponding financial resources will also be depended on. That's a normal process. But I also say quite consciously: Applications alone, excited discussions, toxic press releases are not enough. Our Federal Minister Pröll has interrupted his vacation and has taken the country councillor Wurmitzer and other delegates to the disaster zone. He talked to the people there. He gave them security, he gave them courage. It is also important, Mrs Trunk! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since you have repeatedly quoted Cornelius Kolig, I can also calm you down: The work of Cornelius Kolig is more than just important to our Federal Chancellor and our State Secretary Morak. And I'll tell you something: Two days – listen carefully, Mrs. Colleague! – After the disaster, the Federal Chancellor and State Secretary Morak made personal contact with Cornelius Kolig. I can assure you that there are already hundreds of drawings, hundreds of works by Cornelius Kolig in the National Library for Restoration. The State Secretary will ensure that this restoration is also financed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, in order to avoid the accusation that we would not do everything, today we are making a request to strengthen the proposal you have tabled today. You can also agree. [[Quoted print version removed]] I repeat: The content of this application is actually fulfilled. However, we are making this request again so that you do not have the opportunity to claim that we would not become active here. This request has already been submitted by us on 2.9. I repeat that on the 20th. October, Mrs Trunk – we will pay very close attention to the fact that this is also happening – the first million euros will be needed in this direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19531	The motion for a resolution just read on rapid measures to eliminate disasters in Carinthia has also been properly put in place and is also under negotiation and voting. Mr Dr. Stummvoll spoke with a voluntary time limit of 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19552	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer briefly to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kurt Gartlehner, for which I have a great deal of sympathy. The reason why we did not sign it is that from our point of view it is too narrow, but too far on the other side. He put him on the BÜRGES loan. However, we also have cases where companies could not apply for the special premium for replacement in case of flood damage – 10 percent, § 108d Income Tax Act – simply because, for example, flood protection buildings have lasted longer or similar things. But it's too far, because of course we don't want to open up new cases. We only want to take those cases where flood damage has been detected in a timely manner. We agreed – and we spoke to Mr Finz in front of the Financial Committee last week – that we are looking for a solution here that all variants, where there were indebted delays in individual cases, because the construction of flood protection buildings or bridges simply took longer, are included. There should be a regulation here that those concerned are very likely to benefit from the provisions we have decided here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19584	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. The clock is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19603	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to comment on the statements made by two previous speakers in the current debate. Mr Scheuch, with regard to Mr Matznetter's speech, you spoke of divisions within agriculture. Mr Scheuch, it is not a question of dividing apart, but it is about what you have already called for from the speaker's desk here, namely internal solidarity, internal balance. This is partly the case here, but unfortunately not yet in the other agricultural policy and in the support policy. There is still a lot of work in front of us, because Mr Grillitsch is not very enthusiastic about this internal balance that we want to carry out. Another point you have raised concerns the external economy. The external economy agriculture is correct, but the external economy cannot, as I have seen from the right side of the house very often, be the reason for precisely this internal injustice of the distribution of funding. But back to the subject, back to this request. Mr State Secretary, I asked you at the committee meeting what expenditure you expected. I asked you what sum you expect to be collected under this drought aid, and I also asked you how this drought aid is paid out or what criteria, after we have heard that hail insurance, the other crop failures insured, cannot replace failures in the Greenland. You assured me a written answer to this day. Thank you, I have received this answer. However, this answer reads: As the answer falls in the field of agriculture, you would have obtained information there. No insurance for drought damage in Greenland has been offered in the EU or in Austria so far, because the survey parameters are missing to measure the damage. - So far, so good. My second question was: How does that do – not the Niedermeyer, but the Federal Government? How does it measure these damage? Thankfully you also gave me a written answer, which I quote: In addition, I would like to add that the damage to green fodder is difficult to detect. - Listen, listen! – That is why the amendment to the Civil Fund Act provides that the injured will be granted a replacement for the purchase of food and feed products in connection with the drought. This ensures that only those farmers who have too little feed and actually buy feed are supported. The concrete purchase must be demonstrated. What now? – The purchase or the drought or how? [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: The purchase!]] Mr State Secretary, I would really be very grateful if you would bring me a little light into this dark, because one of the tasks of this House is to ensure that the distribution of public funds to those who need it is carried out and that the criteria are thus safeguarded. Mr State Secretary! This answer does not bring this light into this dark. I would really ask you, even in the interests of the whole House, because there will be a unanimous decision to ensure that we are shown how those concerned are compensated, because only buying ruff can simply not be sufficient as proof of damage to drought. I would like to ask you here for information, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19639	I do not have any further comments to make on this. That concludes the debate. We come to the votes and I ask you to take the seats. First of all, we vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 210 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a sign in this regard. I note that the draft law was unanimously adopted at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I may ask for a sign in the event of a third-reading vote. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Magnette. Trunk concerning rapid emergency aid from the federal government for the victims of the storms in Carinthia. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. .This request does not find the majority of the National Council. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Magn. Gäßner on financial resources for preventive flood protection. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – The request shall be rejected by majority vote. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Gartlehner concerning the extension of the application deadline for flood remediation loans. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution, Gartlehner, for a sign. – This request does not include the majority in the National Council. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch, Mag. Scheucher-Pichler on rapid measures to eliminate disasters. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – The request shall be adopted by a majority vote. (E 23.) I think we have voted in favour of all the amendments. We can use this to make the 4th. Agenda item. 5. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (173 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the General Civil Code and the Consumer Protection Act (Civil Law 2004 – CivRÄG 2004) (212 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19744	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. That is why we are going into the debate. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Fekter. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19768	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! This Civil Law Amendment Novelle is a collection of small novels, but with great effect. In Article I, for example, we improve neighboring law in the general civil code. In this context, I would like to thank Mrs. Volksanwälter Rosemarie Bauer, from whom the suggestion to this novel has come. In cooperation with the University of Graz, the Public Prosecutor's Office has also done relatively good preliminary work. She's been working on a study of how we can proceed here. It is true that a large number of complaints about neighboring disputes are pending, especially at the public prosecutor's office, but also at the courts. That is why we considered it necessary to make the right to neighbor a little better, especially where there were gaps. Property is not just a right, but also an obligation. One cannot use one's property unlimitedly, nor can one's own property be put to shame, nor, above all, to the detriment of the other. Therefore, we are new standards of consideration, which reads as follows: ‘In particular, the owners of neighboring land shall take account of each other in the exercise of their rights.’ We are here orienting ourselves to the existing Judicatur of the Supreme Court, which is already jurisdictiond that difficult exercise of property is not permitted. A new right exists in the withdrawal of light and air, the so-called negative immissions. These were not yet included in the law, but are now relevant. There is a new right of injunction against the property owners, whose trees or plants are negatively affected, and there is no light, no air et cetera. New is the cost sharing of damage caused for example by roots of a tree on a foreign basis. If the property of a property owner does a damage to the neighbor – as already mentioned: if the roots, for example, disaster the terrace or break up the house entry, the asphalt – then even under the law of the injured could remove the roots, but this had to be done at its own expense. That is why we have now standardised a cost allocation. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Of course, these new legal regulations will increasingly lead to dispute resolution attempts. But so that the courts are not overburdened, we have also standardised an extrajudicial dispute resolution in Article III. From our point of view, mediation is the appropriate instrument for, for example, neighboring disputes – I call them that way – that perhaps for years or in some cases no longer communicate with each other for generations, come together for an extrajudicial discussion. Whether they agree or not, the legislator cannot make any rules on this, but we can standardize this conversation at least as a condition of complaint before one can go into the action. In addition to the neighbouring law, which is something quite new and likely to be of great relevance to the population, this novelle also includes minor changes to the Consumer Protection Act, which will have a major impact because they concern very many areas. First, the right of withdrawal will be improved in doorstep operations. The overtrinkling of older people should occasionally be made more difficult by being able to withdraw from such overtruffle transactions and within a longer period of time. In the event of vacation trips – one thing that concerns all those who have entered into a contract in a travel agency – in the event of shortcomings in the future, not only the right of warranty and compensation for the actual costs are relevant, but we normize a new intangible compensation for the lost holiday pleasure. The event was the case pending at the ECJ that a family was ill on holiday due to the poor cuisine and actually had to spend the entire vacation in the room. This family has, of course, been replaced by the financial damage it took through this trip, but the holiday, which is not unlimited – you only have five weeks a year on vacation – was still consumed, and for this immaterial damage there is now also a replacement claim. We have standardised a one-year limitation period for this, i.e. the damage must be claimed within one year. This is in principle a general reduction of the general warranty period, which must also be agreed in writing. We have not standardized the right of a lack on the ground as desired by the tourism industry. However, if there were to be more serious evidence problems in the future, we would have to discuss them again. If there are strange situations in the explanation of evidence in such a complaint, we must consider whether we are not considering a recommitment obligation on the ground in the future. From today's point of view, we have expressed our view against a duty of reluctance, because a lot of process energy in the case of a dispute is used to determine whether it is right, whether it is right in time, whether it is formally correct, whether it is complete, whether or not the right person has been cheated. This is already being processed to a relatively large extent before the actual complaint about the local lack is filed. and the compensation for it comes. That is why this time, as in the case of guarantee, we have also spoken out against a reluctance. I believe, however, that we should renegotiate, if there are distortions with regard to the evidence. Consumer protection has also been expanded with regard to the written nature of real estate contracts with brokers. We have given the legitimate consumer protection associations the right to obtain general terms and conditions if they are important for the representation of consumer interests. It is a very versatile legislative work, it is actually only novels of individual parts, but for the citizens these innovations bring legal protection and legal certainty, and therefore I am very glad that this whole complex can be decided today – I hope unanimously!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19859	Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The clock is set to 5 minutes if desired. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19878	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that the Civil Law Amendment Act is a matter which, in principle, also applies to the consent of social democracy. Nor do we want to congratulate the Federal Minister for finally implementing the amendments to the Consumer Protection Act. My colleague, Mr Maier, will say a few more words about this because it is really the case that there is still a need for action. We should not simply keep up with it, but we should develop things in such a way that we can say that it is a regulatory area more or less adapted in the pan-European context. It is to be said that we have an understanding of the establishment of conciliation bodies which must be called into court within three months of the start of a conflict in the area of neighbourhood law. It is only to be noted, and this is a fundamental problem of recent years, that this is an outpouring of the fact that the courts are being hindered in their functionality in a massity which is already relatively dramatic. On the one hand, we experience an immeasurable waste, for example, if the commercial court from Riemergasse is to be transferred to the Justice Tower against any reason, which over the next 20 years will create an additional burden for rent and operating costs of at least 2 billion schilling – without interest-rate billing! – leads. This money could be used for more staff and benefits in kind, but no funds will be released for this, because the staff will be reduced even further. Of course, the fact that a rule of law is at some point at its borders is clear. In this respect, the attempt to establish a conciliation body is a proven means – in the context of the fact that there should also be an evaluation. In this context, we will also put in place a motion for a resolution asking the Federal Minister to report, in due course, on whether the new right to neighbor has really proved to be the same as you have imagined or not, but basically one must try to ensure that justice is supported, of course, in its entire structure. Minister of Justice! Your recent statements – and you have noted that they would not have liked to be so in connection with time limits of judicial service – I think they are a little sad, especially if they are presented in this way of representing judges. We also know that you, Mr Minister, have a certain tension relationship with this one, especially since you have already made statements in the past, but then you have taken them back, which, for your part, misses at least some sensitivity. I don't know. There are individual judges who are a problem because they simply don't finish their files. But now, in principle, to talk about periods of five years of judicial service, it means, of course, that this has nothing to do with the judge's image, which exists in Europe – the indebtedness and inadmissibility of this third violence in the state, which, of course, already has its meaning, has nothing to do with it, because, of course, only judges appointed for short periods of time would be subjected to pressure. I would very much ask, Minister of Justice, that we have a discussion on how to eliminate individual shortcomings within the jurisdiction – for example, long waiting periods – but not to start such a discussion with the steps already mentioned. My wish would be for you, Mr Federal Minister, to recognize that you did not really express your basic attitude to justice with this statement, but that it may have been a misunderstanding. – However, I have not heard that from you to this day. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: But you know the problem too!]] In any event, I would like to see such things removed from the further discussion and there is a breakdown, because it cannot be that a minister of justice appears in a more or less confrontational and unacceptable way for the rule of law. This matter, as I believe, is a consensual matter; at least we Social Democrats will go along with it. Mr Minister, I would like to congratulate you once again: I am glad that we have also passed on a piece of consumer protection. It was not easy – I noticed this about government work – but the effort was worth it, and we thank it for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19914	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19933	Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned that the neighboring right is changed in the ABGB. We all know that after-law disputes are not only very common, they are also very intensive and families are often refined for life. The literature was, as it were, available to the most great stories due to neighboring legal disputes; for example, I am thinking only of “Romeo and Julia”. Not least, trees and shrubs are very often the cause of such disputes. To one, the shrubs are too high, too wide; to the other, they throw too much shadow – and so far, there has been no way to go against such immissions, which, for example, can take the light away from a room or from a house. That is why the Minister of Justice has proposed this regulation on which we are discussing today. New is also – and I have to say that I like it – the call for the owners of neighboring properties to have respect for each other in exercising their right. I think that signals social responsibility and should draw attention to the fact that the neighbor is not being harassed because one knows that there are very strong emotions there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I consider this – unlike Mr Puswald, who in the Committee meant that it was a ‘ hollow formula’ – not as empty flakes, but as a real appeal to the reason of the respective property owners to deal with the neighbor first, if possible, when there are differences. Such conflicts are, as I have just mentioned, rather emotional; reason is often neglected. And through this appeal the reason should be set in motion a little bit. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But the Minister really did...! I have to say that! That's me!]] It is precisely because the neighboring climate is so sensitive and by judicial disputes these emotions may be further shaken, that the struggles for trees, shrubs and so on must involve an arbitration court or carry out mediation before the court's appeal. I mean, that's also useful, we know that, when the parties are standing in front of each other in court, the climate between them will be heightened. In mediation, however, efforts are being made to return to a peaceful compromise. And that, I think, is, as I said, beneficial to reduce aggression. Another change in the ABGB, which we decide on today, refers to the private and intimate atmosphere, which is to be granted protection or compensation if an invasion into privacy is illegal. You may remember, ladies and gentlemen: Some time ago, an article was published in a newspaper about women filmed or photographed in public baths and these pictures were then published. These women had no way of resisting it at all. The law now grants them an immaterial compensation – an actual damage has not occurred – if there is a personal impairment. I think that's very useful. Furthermore, the amendment to the Consumer Protection Act mentioned by Mr Fekter in the government template was also enforced, which states that a traveler should be compensated for if he had had a lost vacation, even if promised things did not occur when, for example, a hotel was offered in a “quiet position”, but actually thousands of cars a day went by. In such a case, an immaterial compensation shall be made. This is something new in Austrian law, and I am convinced that the many travellers who have been cut over the ear more or less by tour operators are helping to get this disappointment at least financially paid off. These were some points on the very extensive legislative matter that we then have to vote on.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e19996	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. The clock is set to 7 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20015	Dobar vecar, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Jarolim and Mrs Fekter have already said this: Already in the Committee, this matter has found the approval of all the political groups, which is why it is now also in the plenary session of the National Council. With regard to the questions of amending the Consumer Protection Act, I would say: Now we are going to agree!, that was an essential concern on our part, already at the last novel. But then my colleague Dr. Moser will speak. I would also like to say, without repeating what has already been said about the content, that I have accompanied the question of the right to light for many years, because this was a very important concern that Mrs Volksanwälter Bauer has pursued and also her predecessor two years ago, Mrs Korosec. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Korosec!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Irresistiblely the Korosec!]] That is why we are very pleased that this is finally being implemented. In view of the powerlessness against shadows that many people have felt in recent years who have been exposed to the shadow, and the legal instrument that the Austrian legal system offers – one has, as it were, been powerless against the non-existent possibilities – the whole of my assessment has now been remarkably solved. To normize in the general bourgeois code that “the owners of neighboring properties” – and this is now a literal quote from § 364 – “have to consider each other in the exercise of their rights”, I think, I must say, a very successful formulation. The only question is whether this really beautiful lyrical formulation will also impress those who find themselves in bitumen disputes – you, as a long-standing lawyer, are sure of that. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That would be something for Minister of the Interior Strasser! For that, this formulation would be something!]] That is why I believe that is because this is a special clientele, the establishment of mediation is quite a useful instrument, and we have already had the opportunity to discuss it. We have some concerns about the whole matter – and I also said this – with regard to the cost question. Their employees at least convinced me in the discussions that the regulation, as it is now planned, makes sense. It will be seen how this will prove in practice. In any case: Thank you for finally making it so far that it will be implemented. The next question, which is also essential beyond consumer protection, is the question of the protection of privacy. Even if this seems to be something like nothing special now, because there are just so few colleagues present in the debate and because there is general consensus on this issue, it is a very essential, indeed almost revolutionary, civil-law development, which I hope will prove in practice in the protection of privacy. I very much hope that the application of the law will then be in line with the political message that exists in it. This does not necessarily depend on how the Federal Ministry of Justice agrees with the judges and also all the parties involved – it does not only depend on them – on the new legal situation – I would call it so – because the tone makes, as you know, the music. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, the less encouraging things we had to hear in connection with your person and with your place of business. I think – I didn't pay close attention – Mr Jarolim has already mentioned it: Somewhere – forgive You are now this drastic expression – you are obviously in a sense something like a repeater in the questions of dealing with. The first thing that came to my mind in this context was the discussion at the time – it has been, I do not know exactly now, six or seven requests for distrust against your person or against you as Minister of Justice – in connection with your statement, which was: I think it is a follow-up idea that the head of state has expressed in relation to the criminal prosecution of oppositional criticism. The reason I am saying this now is because my distrust has not changed in the light of an opinion of this kind. What has happened in the meantime is that there is now something like the experience that lies between what has happened. Now I can only say: I hope that what was obviously happening in this conversation with the standing representatives in the ministry before the summer was a slipper and not a comment – for it seems to have been a marginal issue – with which you actually connect legal policy statements, Federal Minister. I would ask you to take the opportunity here in the National Council to make a really clear and clear clarification of this matter. I'm going to be very careful! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20084	Mr Böhmdorfer spoke on a statement from the government bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20105	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the order in which the contributions to debate have been made, I would like to address them to Mr Jarolim, who said the following: The City Tower, Mr. Collegue, is not an immeasurable waste, but unfortunately it has been in the Riemergasse, which, in particular, was no longer reasonable for non-judicial staff – you all know what I mean by "Riemergasse". It is true that the judges had very nice rooms, but the non-judicial staff had just too little air to work – you have to say so. The rooms were too narrow, too dark, one could not work there in a reasonable way. According to the latest calculations, we now have almost twice the space required for these three courts – commercial court, BG for commercial cases and BG inner city of Vienna – according to very careful planning. From this you can assess how pressing and how depressing the space needs were. It is very difficult to compare an old and a new building, but in so far as one can do this, be said here: It cost the square meter area in the old building 180 S, and in the new building it is 186 S per square meter. In the new building we have five expressways in the same house, a underground garage with 296 parking spaces, two subways, some tram lines, air conditioning, wooden floors, we have planned in the final phase, there are eight lifts, security facilities, and, and, and. I can only say: Justice also has a right to have such premises, and it also has a right to represent them – and not to work in two separate buildings, at risk of safety by a road, in unacceptable environments. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is almost a pedestrian zone, this road! No one believes that!]] I'll tell you what it's like: That was a command of the hour, and we have also avoided creating a third court, the Landstraße District Court, which would have cost money again. I put myself there every calculation and criticism, only I hope the facts speak here and not the emotion. I thank you for the recognition of the right of neighborhood. I would like to extend this thanks and this recognition to Professor Dr. Kathrein, who designed this law in the Ministry of Justice. [[As a result of the fact that the European Parliament has not yet taken part in the debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the ……]] It is always good for our officials to get public recognition here in the House – they deserve it. The wording that the parties should tolerate is not to be underestimated. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This also applies to the Federal Government!]] In our laws, there are many so-called "punitive" norms – standards that are thought to be social-political, to control living together and which are very successful. I believe that the chosen wording, which you have considered to be correct, will fulfill its purpose. The other two laws will also do this. I thank Mrs Mag. Stoisits recognises in particular the scope of the Privacy Protection Act. I see this as well because it is really an important law and a milestone in the establishment of an efficient personal protection. I would also like to thank you for pointing out that today, in the light of a report which I sometimes feel is a political one, but which is also part of democracy, I am entitled to bring to your attention, and that is very briefly said: There has never been a plan in the Ministry of Justice, and it has never been the intention of the honourable Member to limit the judicial period, either before this discussion or after this discussion. It has – and this is obvious; and if this is a mistake, then we have to take note of this – of those involved in the conversation a statement in the direction to discuss this. You can now say: You can't even discuss this in the small circle in the kind of brainstorming – and so it was. I take the liberty to say that in a brainstorming, if you are trying to get hold of the time of the proceedings or to solve other serious, serious problems for justice, you must also listen to some unconventional, even impossible thought. That is, I think, also a part of the culture of conversation. Take, however, proof that not the slightest plan, not the slightest intention to take action in this direction, is somehow the fact that no word was spoken of afterwards. They will not receive any further talk in the ministry even in rumor. You will not see any paper, because there has been no such thing as this. But please, I'll say it again: We are going very modern ways in the Ministry of Justice. We are doing this because we are trying to think in the public economy – and I do not want to detract from the problem now – also in the private sector, also in the organization question. I am truly grateful to my officials, i.e. the officials of the Republic of Austria, who are working in the Ministry of Justice, for their participation in all ways of working efficiently. I ask, however, that in the small circle, in a confidential, informal conversation, one may even express unthinkable thoughts. The idea has been rejected – please note. If that was a mistake, I think I can't agree to you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: A tramper can cut off a corner!]] In order to see, however, ladies and gentlemen, that we really mean it seriously with the real threat picture we have, namely the threat to which the people are exposed, because the procedures simply take too long: You must not forget that 3 percent of the pending civil processes are “old” at first instance for over three years – under quotation marks. That's over 1,400 a year. That means fates, that means problems for families, that means problems for needy fathers, that means increased loans, that means mental burden. That is what we must do, and not just that: We're on the eve of an Easter enlargement. We have a functioning legal system. Our small and medium-sized enterprises depend on this legal system working across the Member States across Europe. After this discussion, I turned to my colleagues in the EU, in particular to the Presidency-leading country, and I have achieved that the problem of the procedure has been dealt with as the first item on the agenda at the new Presidency in Rome, with the aim – and that is what we ourselves do! – to introduce a state liability for too long procedures. This is new, but it is also in line with the idea of the European Court of Human Rights. We're going on. We are also making an idea competition in which everyone can participate: Judges, prosecutors, non-judicials, lawyers, lawyers, notaries and laymen. I can tell you today that this has come up with a very broad agreement. Any person in that country should be allowed to express his idea of reducing the procedure and speeding up the procedure. That's new, too. The chairman of this Commission will lead the section head probably known to you in Rest Dr. Oberhammer. He knows what's going on. It has shaped the image of this modern justice for several decades. Under his leadership, we will collect the best ideas of the country, and we will certainly complete this legislative period with very decisive measures that contribute to the process acceleration. And we will continue to stand on the ground together – I know how to say this – that the independence of the judges is and remains our highest good in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20182	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20203	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his explicit clarification. Even though we have not doubted this, I believe, once again, that no one, even if the opposition sometimes tries to present it differently, in this government and in this government constellation, is thinking only of calling into question the independence of the judges in any way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaál: Well,...!]] I am also expressly grateful to Mr Jarolim, because Mr Jarolim has also said that he is happy to take part in the reflections that have a procedural acceleration and the solution of some of the problems that exist in the courts, from court to court, with the aim of contributing to these measures that seem to be necessary here, and that you will also be involved in this reform process, as the Federal Minister has specifically presented him here. I also think this is very important, from the point of view of professional experience, but also on the basis of many reports by people who have come into contact with courts who have had good experience on the one hand, but on the other hand have had to take very long procedural periods at some courts – and then, unfortunately, have experienced very little effective procedures. – That only on this reform debate. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me now come to the proposals to be adopted today. It has already been mentioned that there are also two regulations dealing with intangible damage. Therefore, allow me to focus briefly on the development of intangible damage in the Austrian legal system. In principle, since the beginning of the ABGB, it has already been clearly regulated that there is compensation for material damage – whether for damage to things, to persons or also to the property of legal subjects or persons – but only very limited for immaterial damage. There are therefore only very limited, very specific, explicitly regulated cases in the Austrian legal order, where claims are also granted for intangible damage, and for very good reason. An example would be the claims for pain, where this has been regulated for a very long time. The good reason why we are very restrictive in the Austrian legal system is that the problem of proof is so immaterial, because it is mostly within people's minds, concerns them in their sensitivity and is therefore very difficult to detect externally, and on the other hand, that the issue of evaluation is also a major problem. How do you evaluate such immaterial damage? – There is a wide range here, with on the one hand the rather restrictive handling from the beginning and the restrictive regulations in Austria, on the other hand, I would settle the situation in the USA, where, as we hear from various media reports repeatedly, millions of amounts are granted for sometimes very minor intangible damage, sometimes even double-digit million amounts. In this scenario, over the last decades, in Austria, there has been a development in which pain claims have rightly been raised, where from the outset, even in the most severe and lasting cases, very low claims have been granted by the courts, which have developed very slowly to quite reasonable compensation; and on the other hand, there has also been a development in which one has said that there are also needs to recognise such immaterial damage beyond the areas regulated from the outset. Two of these cases we can also take stock of with the novelle that is pending today for decision-making. One is the already mentioned right to privacy, which is basically nothing new, but already finds itself in the field of personal rights. But now an immaterial compensation for privacy violations is explicitly granted if it exceeds a certain degree of sublimeness. The second is – and that has already been mentioned – the right to replace the lost holiday pleasure. In this way, we implement a jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice in a legal form. Overall, it can be said that we are going the right way if we deal with the claim for immaterial compensation in a very serious way, look at this development with caution, but where necessary, do not even hesitate to grant such immaterial compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20245	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20264	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The current Civil Law Amendment Act is without doubt a further development of Austrian civil law and is therefore to be welcomed in principle. However, these reforms must be continued, and I agree with the opinion of my previous speaker, especially in the field of consumer protection. One could, of course, talk about the individual new regulations for a long time now, but I would like to limit myself to three points. The first point concerns neighboring rights. This is basically about the effects of foreign trees and plants on the neighboring ground. However, we will have to discuss another variant or scenario next year, namely the effects of GMOs on the neighbouring ground. It is the European Commission's recommendation on the co-existence of non-technical agriculture and agriculture in the field of genetic engineering. We Socialists believe, Federal Minister, that it will be necessary to make very clear arrangements in this area for the protection of small-structured Austrian agriculture, in order to protect those farmers who have committed themselves to genetic engineering-free production. Therefore, we would be interested to hear from you, since there is already an opinion from the German Environment Agency on these matters of law, whether or not you have already done preparatory work on this subject. In my view, today's amendments focus on the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act. This is to be welcomed in principle. It is also to be welcomed that general contract forms should be followed. I can tell you from my own experience that just consumer advice- There were major problems, as did the Ministry of Justice itself, in obtaining from individual providers the forms of contract for the verification of conformity with the KSCHG. It is therefore appropriate to welcome this scheme. However, there is also a whirling drop, Minister of State: In the case of B2C e-commerce business, we are faced with the situation that suppliers are not prepared to follow these documents, contrary to the E-Commerce Act, contrary to the distance selling directive. I think we should think about how we could get a better regulation. The area of holiday frustration is also being re-regulated. This is based on the fact that some courts in Austria have already decided in accordance with the guidelines, and others have not. Therefore, this explicit regulation in the Consumer Protection Act is to be welcomed in principle. Now the case law is required to clarify this. As my previous speaker said, it is about the assessment of immaterial damage, and that is in particular about the amount of compensation. I too believe that the current regulation is a directive-compliant interpretation. That is why we shall also agree to this. Nevertheless, Mr Federal Minister, the discussion on more consumer rights must continue. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the Federal Republic of Germany, there have been since 1. In October 2000, a two-week right of withdrawal in consumer transactions. Austria hangs there. I think we should adopt this regulation from the Federal Republic of Germany. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This is a concrete proposal for further civil-law discussion. We may invite you to accept this request. Finally, Mr. Federal Minister: I welcome your findings to introduce a state liability to speed up proceedings, but I believe that you too are in arrears, namely as regards the state liability for legislative injustice. We know the case law of the European Court of Justice and we know that in Austria there is no such system of state liability. We expect you, Minister of State, to submit such a regulation to Parliament shortly.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20343	Mr Magistrate. The motion for a resolution adopted by Maier is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. His speaking time is gladly set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20364	Mr. President! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that this matter, which really covers a need that has arisen in the meantime, is also carried here by the opposition. The motion for a resolution, which, as far as I am aware, is still being submitted, which concerns the area of neighbourhood rights and in which there is provision for an evaluation of the effects, we will of course be happy to agree. The issue of neighboring rights may seem inconceivable, but it is not so inconceivable at all, one learns when one consults the former Volksanwälter Korosec. It has just called for a regulation. Understandably, this arrangement did not take place immediately by the Ministry, for it would likely be taxed to an extent that is not necessary to the courts if no filter were imposed. That is why this law has created the regulation of a previous mediation, a pretorial comparison or also of the Conciliation Body, so that it is not possible to refer to the Court until after three months of agreement. As has been said, this motion for a resolution is welcome by us in the evaluation of this area. The replacement of the lost holiday pleasure is also an important area. Many in this House have probably had to do with this: You drive on vacation, and there are serious things in stark contrast to what was promised. If a debt can also be found, then it is now possible for God to claim a compensation for pain. This, of course, is not a short plane delay, a dirty cutlery or perhaps a buffet that doesn't fit you very well, and it doesn't concern, for example, the lack of snowfall in winter holidays, because it's not a fault of the hotelier. Nevertheless, there are a number of cases – particularly in the field of consumer protection – that have brought complaints to the attention of those who have led to the need to create such a law. We are very glad that the decision will now be taken. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20398	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20416	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! My colleagues have already pointed out that consumer protection needs massive excitement. Mr. Minister, you've been able to... [[Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer is a short distance from the government bank.]] You're going, but I wanted to thank you. Mr Minister, you have been able, for the first time – I stress – to bring a request from the Greens to a positive conclusion. I would like to point out that I personally am on 20 June. In September 2002 the motion for a resolution called for the establishment of appropriate legal arrangements to ensure that tour operators would have to make replacements for waste holiday periods. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Pretty exactly a year ago!]] Mr Minister, this proposal has been in Parliament since 2000. I am grateful that he has become mature after three years, but the authorship is clear. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: “2002” you said!]] No, 2000! I read it out and said: 20. ==References== [[Abg. May. Regulator: You said “2002”!]] Thank you for drawing my attention to this, but you can look at the “parlinkom” at any time, where everything is documented. The fact that this incident was urgently implemented by you proves the various processes, whether at national level or at European level. As you know, the Landesgericht Linz has decided very positively, but the Landesgericht Wien decided negatively in other cases where it was a matter of immaterial damage in the event of lost holiday pleasure, and this disparity in the case law was then also the reason for the ECJ to act, and ultimately this was the impulse for you, Mr Minister, to come under compulsion. I'm glad it went out that way. There are also press releases, and you yourself have also written here, namely on 13 March. March 2002 – now it’s really 2002 – that this change of law will last until no later than 1. It will take place in January 2003. In the meantime, new elections have been held, and then the Minister accepted other legislative instruments, but now this important area is not only ready to decide, but ready to decide, is under the roof and the subject. Minister! I hope that in other urgent consumer policy concerns – Mrs Fekter will contribute to all this, I hope – as in the field of competitions, for example, on which there is also a request from the Greens, as well as positive action will be taken and, in the interests of those who are ultimately involved, regulations, legal frameworks that restrict abuse and prevent the companies, in particular, from continuing to do so in the interests of us. I could mention two or three other areas where regulations are necessary. I now only call the Home Residence Act – now it is called Home Treaty Law and has been speculated on Personal Rights – in which a decision is urgently needed, because it concerns very essential things. Minister! We have a current case in Lainz or in the care area of the city of Vienna, and I believe that not only the care, but also the total home stay must finally be placed under legal provisions which are federally uniform. I would like to ask you in particular: When do you intend, Mr Minister, to present to the Committee on Justice the original approach which has already been examined and which has already been given a positive opinion? Today, on our tables, there is a note that the Home Treaty Act has been assigned to the Committee, but what about the Home Residence Act or the essential aspects of personal rights, freedom? It's still outstanding! Please, Mr Minister, today's consent to this civil law complex is a positive incentive for you to make further efforts in this direction, including in others, such as in the direction of Home Treaty law, to force you to address these concerns. I hope that this is not just a word in God's ear, but that it really falls on fertile soil in you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20500	Mr Böhmdorfer, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank to a brief opinion. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20519	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser, the Home Residence Act is based on human discretion on 21st. In October of this year the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20553	Mr Glaser is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20572	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Of the wealth of the materials that we have to deal with here in the House today, the new regulation of neighboring rights is one that is very practical and very simple and very clear. This is also a regulation – and the Federal Minister has already noted this in the Committee – which is associated with great expectations by the population, which is likely to be so for various reasons. On the one hand, all those who are cross-chanced will first exercise this right, on the other hand, it is really about the fact that the people concerned can, in fact, assert their right to unsightly neighbors and fight themselves, their right to light, their right to sun, their right to air. I therefore believe that this is a very reasonable and necessary scheme, which was overdue. In any case, the compulsory referral of a Conciliation Body before a complaint is a very useful measure because it simply forces the parties to engage and to see the interests of the other party. That this will not always lead to the goal is, I believe, also clear. I know this very well from the community level, because in this area very often the fronts are already very hardened and the conversation climate is rather disturbed. I would like to expressly welcome a regulation that has always been in place, but has now been recast, namely that roots and branches can be removed, but that this has now to be done in a professional manner. Personally, I am happy with such a regulation, for it always hurts me when I see a shrub or a tree mutilated. I believe that this new regulation – in my opinion, a life area – is one that does not only the plant well, but also the aesthetic sense of man. High house! As this new regulation as a whole will prove, this will undoubtedly be interesting. Whether it is possible to cover a large part of the disputes, for example, whether there will also be conflicts with national legislation, which are on and off of itself, since they are not affected by the law, we will only see in execution. But I could imagine that regulations at the level of national law, which are contained in the Forestry Act, the Reforestation Act or in a Distance Law, are however to incomprehensible in the population can lead and there are likely to be conflicts, which can then be taken into account in the evaluation. There is no doubt on the part of our group that we will be happy to vote in favour of a motion for a resolution which provides for a possible evaluation. It was originally planned from the point of view, but the SPÖ at the time did not want to join the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Finally, I would like to say that I believe that dealing with property in a sense wants to be learned. Especially in the case of freshly baked property owners, it is often noted that the right to property is very penetrating and very extremely interpreted and less the obligations associated with it are seen. But without tolerance and mutual understanding, a sought-after idyll in the green can often become hell. I therefore believe that it was good, necessary and right that the legislator should give an introductory opinion on this – this sentence has been quoted a few times today – namely that “the owners of neighboring property should take account of each other in exercising their rights”. On and on, this sentence alone would regulate everything. What he does not regulate, however, governs the remaining paragraphs of the law, and we are very pleased with this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20617	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20635	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the General Civil Code and, in particular, the amendment of the so-called Neighbourhood Law in accordance with Sections 364 and 422 is generally accepted here. I am convinced that this is good because I believe that this will increase our legal peace in our country. – That’s how we at least imagine it. In the beginning, colleague Dr. Partik-Pablé said that she was afraid that perhaps such valuable and beautiful dramas as Shakespeare’s “Romeo and Julia” would no longer be written, but I hope that there are other substances so that corresponding dramas can be written for the world literature. I think that's still possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If these two paragraphs, which have not been changed since 1916, are now changed and are also taking new paths, then I think this is good and right, in particular that mediation is also introduced in such an area in which the cause and the occasion of a dispute are often different. I mean, it's right that we try to achieve a certain cooling phase through mediation and the pre-controversies comparison in advance, in order to avoid a judicial dispute. That is, as I believe, an interesting approach and a good, right way. I would also like to express my warm thanks to the Tyrolean Dr. Kathrein for this successful bill of law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When I read through the government template, or even when I was in touch with the various paragraphs, I noticed that the initial ministerial draft was still planned and also provided for by the People's Procuratorate. The claim for compensation, which has been filed, that a compensation claim must be made if non-enforcement is not enforceable, has been deleted. There is nothing more to be seen in the current bill. I already know – and I have also inquired – that this is related to the competence of the countries on the one hand. It was also mentioned briefly by my previous speaker that the competences of the countries in relation to building regulations, forest, forest and meadow laws and so on would be affected. We will see to what extent the current rules conflict with the national laws, but I think that the Ministry of Justice has been carefully considered, and I believe the experts. They are planning to join the motion for a resolution that we are going to put in place here to evaluate this law after a certain period of time. Then we'll be smarter. There are already similar provisions in Germany, and the burden on the courts has not increased dramatically. I hope that this law, on the one hand, will not lead to a great increase in the burden on the courts, on the other hand, that there will be more legal peace. It just surprised me that this law only happened with 1. ==References====External links== That's the only thing I have to complain about. I can't quite explain why this law isn't already with 1. ==References====External links== Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20696	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20714	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would also like to focus very briefly on the consumer protection concerns of this legislative matter. The previous speakers have already stressed that EU law is being implemented here and that the relevant case law of the ECJ has also been taken into account. Consumer protection – we agree – is a growing policy field at European level. That's quite clear. This has to be done with the fact that the economic world is liberalising itself and that this also means European shopping opportunities for consumers, as I would like to define. The fullness of the offer does not necessarily make it easier for consumers to make a choice because very often the underlying business bases are not clear. In view of this, as legislators, we come to the difficult position of identifying how we can intervene in this sensitive field between consumers and entrepreneurs. In the future, we will continue to have a very strong focus on how we can shape the legal development and the enforcement of the law accordingly, so that a fiscal intervention is actually possible. A good example of this is the door door business. We know that they are part of business life. I also do not believe that these doorstep transactions should be simply abolished. Rather, the question needs to be clarified as to how to intervene sensitively here. We also know, however, that in this area, some of it is invading. I believe that these amendments have been sensitive. The question of the different withdrawal periods is not so easy to solve at national level as there are different ideas on the part of the EU in this regard. I believe that we, as consumer protectionists, need to find a balance and a balance between consumers and businesses. In this sense, for example, I also see the question of association complaints. The undertaking's obligation to comply with the terms and conditions or contract forms should not, here, as proposed in the Government's proposal, have made a change, depending on a certificate of its non-lawfulness or morality by the body authorised to act as an association. Rather, it should be sufficient if the establishment makes it credible that it needs the conditions and forms for the perception of the interests of the consumer. I think this is a sensible regulation because, for example, in the case of sampling checks in an industry, it has been found that the terms and conditions have often involved illegal clauses. Furthermore, this regulation is also targeted in cases where an institution is only seeking an overview of what the relevant legal situation looks like, or when it comes to evaluating new legal measures. – I believe that this change in the Consumer Protection Act makes sense in the interests of the consumer. However, I would also like to point out a development, Mr Federal Minister, which we should not overlook. There are also very clear indications from the economy where there may be some misdevelopments, and we should not ignore these indications as legislators. Let me give you an example: We know that phones are one of the biggest debts for the youth. The issue of telephone number porting will now be discussed. There are very clear indications from the economy as to how this should be regulated. Minister! In view of this, I ask you to work to ensure that the economy is heard accordingly. If she wants to go, we have to let her go too! I believe that these laws are within the meaning of the consumer and the entrepreneur, and we agree with these materials.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20765	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20784	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! All speakers have already pointed out that this Civil Law Amendment Act is a consensus matter. I would also like to start by thanking you very much, Mr Minister, for you have, in particular, tried to take a step in the right direction in the field of consumer protection. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I should also like to thank you very much, as has long been the case in the Committee on Justice, on behalf of my group, but also personally, for the high level of civil service, not only for the first-class preparation of the laws, but above all for support and for cooperation. I mean, at least in the field of justice, it is always refreshing how to tackle important materials here! [[We welcome the SPÖ and the representatives of the ÖVP and the Free Trade Unions.]] All important points have already been raised on consumer protection as well as on neighbouring legislation. However, I would like to make a few comments on the right to neighbor. Mrs Wurm pointed out that many neighborhood disputes actually take their place in other areas. Unfortunately, we have to say that many fellow citizens cannot deal with their neighbours as we may all wish. I therefore very much welcome the fact that we have set up the mediation and the conciliation bodies in advance. But I mean, Mr Minister, that we should really take care together to ensure that solutions are actually sought in the extrajudicial way, because it is not primarily the intention of the law that there are very many judicial procedures in the final effect, and ultimately – as I would like to say from the human side – the two neighbors concerned, as long as they live and are neighbors, do not talk to each other at all. I believe that many of the issues raised here are often also settled in the social environment. In this respect too, we could make a joint contribution. I think it is quite simply part of our shared life that we have communication with our fellow human beings and above all with our neighbors. I hope that this new law, according to which an attempt is to be made in three months, will lead to an extrajudicial solution, will, as it were, break a large part of the proceedings in this area and cause people to talk to each other again, that open questions will be discussed and that the courts will not have to be harassed. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in the case of an item on the agenda such as this one, which has been presented by all the speakers in a positive and consensus, it is also very clear that, if we are trying to solve matters that are very important for the people before the Committee's work and in the Committee, we are also able to solve them together. – In this sense, we will be very pleased to give our approval from the Social Democratic side of this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20838	The next speaker was Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20856	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In my contribution, I would like to refer in particular to the changes in neighboring law and, as an example, to a case concerning the trouble over the tree at the border. My example from practice was at the scene Bezau, my home town in Vorarlberg. Today in July there was a negotiation on the reconstruction of a family house. Neighbors were loaded and also appeared. The reconstruction was negotiated by me as mayor, first without any problems. It all seemed to be vain wonder. But suddenly emotions came up between the neighbors, and the main theme was no longer the conversion, but the two fir at the border, which cast shadows, robbed too much light and had long been a constant nuisance. The discussion became more and more emotional. I tried to simplify and pointed out that there would be a change in the law in the near future, so that the neighbor would not do so without This is because the right that these trees are no longer there will have to be acquittal. – The result of this story: The two trees, which had been a cause for disputes for years, were removed within the next week. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This is certainly not an individual case. I have had many similar problems in many construction negotiations, and I have experienced how neighbors were in conflict for years because of trees. The applicable neighbouring law was no longer in line with the disputes raised in practice. I am glad that the current Civil Law Amendment Act now regulates a regulation for these negative Immissions, i.e. the unacceptable impairments by shadows, and that the tree cutting or cutting of branches and roots is also better regulated. I too am glad that a flood of action is prevented by the first attempt to achieve a kind agreement between the parties. I am also pleased that consumer protection will be improved, but also that private intervention will be regulated. As the example I have described here shows, the necessary and good changes in the law are necessary, and I am pleased that today there is agreement that this law will be passed together.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20905	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20923	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few brief comments on the Consumer Protection Act and in particular on the replacement of lost holiday pleasures. A lot has already been said about this. Of course, it is also very welcome and positive for consumers that this novelle is being implemented today. This is a long-standing demand of the consumers concerned. This claim was also supported by the ECJ judgment, which was also mentioned. Col. Fekter briefly described the case of the Linz family. The Landesgericht referred the case to the ECJ in order to obtain a preliminary ruling. It was precisely noted that the EU-Palestinian Travel Directive is of course to be transposed and that there is a right to lost holiday pleasures. The Linz court took this into account in its judgment. However, not all courts have taken this scheme into account. That is why this novelle is very essential. After all, there are 3 000 consumers per year who go to the Consumer Information Association and file complaints in such cases. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to stress one point which may be a barrier to the implementation of this law. This is the wording in § 31st para. 3, in which it reads: ‘If the tour operator has not provided a significant part of the contractually agreed services..., the traveler shall also be entitled to appropriate replacement of the lost holiday pleasure.’ In this formulation regarding the “significant part” there will certainly be different interpretations, and ultimately the courts will have to decide how to understand this. I would just like to highlight this by an example: The services offered by a tour operator include, for example, child care as one of many services. The parents opt for exactly this holiday offer, because child care is very important to them and is an important criterion for them to enjoy their holiday relaxed as well. Now this babysitting is for some reason, and the question arises as to what the judgment will look like when parents complain and go to court. If the journey is damaged as such, is it not affected? Is a significant part affected or not affected? In Germany, this part is somewhat clearer. It is said that the journey as such must be affected and not just a significant part, which may make the interpretation different. It should also be borne in mind whether there is a claim for compensation if a tour operator refuses to travel at all if a customer does not take a trip at all, because certain parts that were first provided for in the journey are not carried out or are carried out very differently from the original provisions. As I said, this formulation is not very precise, and I appeal to the courts to decide here also consumer-friendly. We will all observe this closely, and I think then you will see whether in practice a lot needs to be adjusted or not. My group will also vote in favour of this amendment. It has put in place legitimate demands from consumer protectionists, and many of the objections made in the opinions of stakeholders have also been incorporated into and implemented. That is why there will be an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e20987	The next speaker was Mrs Stadlbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21006	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would also like to say a few words on the right of neighborhood. In the future, disputes concerning the right to light are to be conducted primarily out of court. Thus, this law provides for a kind of conciliation body. Conciliation bodies should be assessed positively in principle, but they contribute to evading access to the law and removing major obstacles such as the Court of Justice or the action. Conciliation bodies can help in many areas, and those concerned will certainly be relieved. But at the beginning of our meeting today, Mr Molterer, at the debate on the Rules of Procedure, when you recall that there was a priority in the debate, a priority position of ÖVP and FPÖ, and I would like to take it to the floor, in the word 'priorities'. I am missing a very important area in the issue of conciliation or out-of-court agreement. Unfortunately, this is not being treated as a priority by you, Minister Böhmdorfer. I'm talking about maintenance. Here is a new regulation in the context of the out-of-court procedure for full-year-old recipients and here you are fair, Mr Minister. I just wanted to remind you once again on this occasion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As positive as the conciliation body is to be assessed, it is necessary to note immediately at the beginning that not everything can be resolved prejudicially. We must, of course, allow those concerned, if they do not get to their right, if there is no agreement, for them to come to their right. But, Minister Böhmdorfer, let me ask you a question: How do you want to make sure that this does not result in an additional burden on the court? How should this be possible with the low level of staff? They say even in today’s “standard”, there are many complaints that the proceedings take so long, but you draw the wrong conclusion, blame the judges and place them disinterest. I think, Minister, that is scandalous, that you must take back. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Go!]] I am convinced that the judges have no interest in their work, but that your policy, combined with that of the ÖVP, does not really contribute to optimal support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: We are talking about a joint request!]] The new regulation of neighboring law, as positive as it is, will increase the working balance of judges and judges, but you have not even thought about it, Minister. [[Abg. Wittauer: Neither do you!]] I take from a “Kurier” article on this law yesterday that there is no idea in the Ministry of Justice how often the action will be taken. I have the impression that Minister Böhmdorfer's way of working is as follows: He has an idea, if she wants to implement it as soon as possible, he is not very successful at this, because he is constantly slowed down by the ÖVP and blocks the ÖVP, and then he does not care about the consequences. I just hope that this kind of policy doesn't fall on our mind at some point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially in the current debate on criminal process reform, this policy pattern becomes visible again. The plans you forge are not personal compatible. You have to think of the consequences, too, and it will be time for you to finally stand up to the Minister of Finance and to get more staff and more money for the judiciary. Our support is yours. However, I estimate that you will be inhibited by the ÖVP Group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would, however, like to conclude positively. We agree with this law because it gives those concerned access to the right because we are there for people and want to document it again. However, the re-regulation of neighbouring law is based on a long discussion, which was marked by conflicting interests. It is therefore necessary to review after a reasonable period of time. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution and I am very pleased that it is likely that this will be decided unanimously: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21110	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Stadlbauer, drawn up by Mrs Jarolim, Mr Mag. Stoisits, Dr. Fekter and Dr. Partik-Pablé are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 212 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at the third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Mayer, colleagues and colleagues on the harmonisation of withdrawal periods for consumers in consumer business. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Wittauer: ( towards SPÖ) Where are your bosses?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: If not even your boss agrees, we do not agree either! Without boss, you won't agree!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Jarolim, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Stoisits, Dr. Fekter, Dr. Partik-Pablé, colleagues on an evaluation of the impact of the new neighbouring law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 24.) 6. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (124 of the Supplements): The Federal Act establishing a German law on equity-replacement benefits (ECEG) and amending the bankruptcy order, the compensation scheme, the Company Reorganisation Act and the Takeover Act (Society and Insolvency Change Act 2003 – GIRÄG 2003) (211 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (174 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Code of Laws, the Law of Laws, the Statute of Disciplinary Lawyers and Lawyers, the Federal Law on the Freedom to Service and the Establishment of European Lawyers in Austria and the Notarial Order (213 of Supplements) 8. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (193 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Conversion of the Basic Book to Automation-based Data Processing and the Amendment of the Basic Book Law and the Court Commissioner Act (GUG) (GUG-Novelle 2003) (214 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21188	We shall now proceed to points 6 to 8 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Drinkl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21212	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, we are dealing with three proposals dealing with various issues, such as the Basic Accounting Act, which provides the basis for a further step in the area of justice to claim its role as a pioneer in the field of eGovernment. Especially the judicial centre has always been active in this area, and I should also like to thank and warmly congratulate on this step in making the collection of documents available to IT. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As more speakers of my group will come to the speaker's desk, I would like to throw some lights on the equity replacement law. What's this about? – This is about the treatment of loans granted by a shareholder of his company during a crisis situation when the company then slid into insolvency, i.e. at a time when the company would probably no longer receive credit from third parties on market conditions. So far, the question of what happens to these funds in the case of insolvency has not been settled in Austria. It is true that, on the basis of the case law in Germany, the OGH has also followed the case law by judging that shareholders who lend loans to a credit-indebted company have no right of replacement. Although the OGH has formulated principles, it has not yet dealt with many questions. Practice has always strongly criticized this legal uncertainty because a number of important issues have still not been resolved. For example, the lower limit of the participation for the application of the provisions on the replacement of equity-replaced loans has never been discussed. It was also not clear how much the creditor's influence on society may or may be must. It was also not clear which forms of society are at all affected. The draft addresses these problems, the draft creates legal certainty, ladies and gentlemen. A working group has been working on these issues for six years and has been working on the draft. Finally, the draft constitutes a compromise between all the groups concerned, which seeks, on the one hand, to comply with the protection of creditors, on the other, but also to allow and allow the reorganisation of companies by the shareholder, because often only the shareholder is still willing to reach out to the poor, in the truest sense of the word. But the creditor does that only if he has security, from when he can still finance, if he has security, what he actually risks, ladies and gentlemen. The best creditor protection is ultimately to avoid insolvency, because in the case of insolvency – we know – there is probably a much worse prospect for all creditors than if the operation can be continued. The worst result is bankruptcy. He not only loses wealth, but in the event of bankruptcy, jobs are constantly going down, which we so urgently need. On the contents of the template: It defines the crisis. The creditor must know the consequences of having money in this situation, but he must also know when the crisis actually occurred and when the new rules apply to him. Here, the draft depends on § 22 of the Company Reorganisation Act. In any event, however, the crisis is then when the company is unable to pay or overdebted. In the same way, the draft provides for a definition when one speaks of a dominant partner. This may be due to voting rights, but it may also be due to the shares, but at least the shareholder must hold a 25 percent share in society. It shall also be established when financing is not a substitute for equity. This is primarily about short-term bridging aid such as money credits for no more than 60 days or goods credits for not more than six months. Ladies and gentlemen! I hear that the opposition to this proposal will now also be approved. I welcome this change of mind, especially if I consider the debate in the Committee. I conclude that the uncertainty has ended and that it is obvious that the closer consideration of a subject ultimately also leads to the realization that those who have been trying for years here have not worked so badly that those who have struggled on this compromise for years have not worked so badly. But I can't spare myself a little bit of this uncertainty either. It simply cannot be that a call, a single e-mail leads to a barrier to the whole legislative process and calls into question a five-year concerted preparatory work. I am therefore really glad that this is still happening today. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft brings legal certainty and great benefits to Austria's economic location. It will hopefully lead to companies being rehabilitated. It is hoped that entrepreneurs and shareholders will be able to meet their responsibilities for jobs and for their businesses even more in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21279	Mr Dr Jarolim has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21298	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the case itself, capital replacement law is also a consensus matter because the regulatory content is something that actually creates more legal certainty in economic areas. What has only somehow estranged me and seems almost embarrassing to me for the process in a law-making process is the way in which one has obviously tried to exclude some participants in the discussion simply because of concern and fear – Mr. Drinkl, because you mentioned this earlier. I can give you the answer: If, shortly before the Committee has dealt with this issue, all the judicial speakers are informed that, on the basis of an initiative of the ÖVP in the last deliberations, a group like the KSV – I don't care about the credit protection association, only I know that in insolvency matters he has an experience that we all don't have to speak to each other – in order to give an opinion here as well, and then thankfully to the Minister and Mrs Partik-Pablé for sharing our opinion, we should talk again before the Committee to clarify what it is really like to the credit protection association here in comparison with the opinion of the ministerial officials, in particular Dr Mohr, then I do not understand why you have such great concern at first and then finally emotionality, which somehow has been very strange to me, trying to prevent such a conversation of – I would say – reasonable. If I remember that we then had an immediate discussion before the Committee, which I believe would have been ineligible, just as to whether there is the possibility of comparing positions which are at least on the agenda, I think that we also invite experts in a number of other events in the house, such as the issue of the division, to listen to what they have to say, and then decide exactly the opposite. We must note that it is our task as a parliamentarian to vote if we believe we have heard all the votes and have the information needed to act responsibly here. Mrs Fekter, I have to tell you, I hope that was a case of isolation. I do not believe it, because we have, unfortunately, heard God again and again in the past that the voice of experts is only desirable if they say what you seem to be saying, even in fact, but there is no interest in a really open discourse. We believe that at least the position of the Minister of Justice to allow a discussion here, the intellectuality that is necessary in dealing with such a subject, is more equivalent to the attempt – and the way in which we can now also get this into the shoes – to prevent a discussion being held, although we really did not want anything else but to have clarified it: What about these objections? So if this leads to an emotional debate, perhaps we should consider in all our peace, whether it is with parliamentaryism. If we say what is on the agenda and what there are votes to listen to, then we should vote. In that sense, I hope that was the last time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21353	The next speaker was Mr Mainoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21371	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present draft capital replacement law is, in fact, also a necessary replication of a legislative matter, which has been governed so far, especially in the Federal Republic of Germany, by case law. This is mainly a non-essential area of insolvency law, in insolvency matters. I am very glad that there is now a clear regulation, with the main focus being on the capital companies, but also the limited-liability cooperatives and, of course, also the individual companies where no unlimited shareholder is a natural person, i.e. the GmbH & Co KGs. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the opportunity to address two important things to me. You have certainly not missed the discussion about the criminal relevance of the trade of the so-called Lombard club. The public prosecutor's proposal has now been made by the public prosecutor's office. My personal opinion about this is that a disversion, and that means without a confession of guilt and that someone else can pay the penalty, in this case is very problematic. It is not that I am criticizing a law or, ultimately, a proposal from the public prosecutor's office, but it is about all of us knowing that the effect of the activity of these gentlemen in this Lombard club was a damaging one for all of us. The European Court of Justice has also dealt with this, and unfortunately God is the result here in Austria. A second point I would like to address: Mrs Stoisits! They have used the word “repetitious” to our Minister of Justice, although very generous. I should like to remind you, Mrs Stoisits, that during the first black and blue period of government, there was some excitement that we were liberals in the government, and, of course, one wanted to meet the Minister of Justice as personal acquaintances of Jörg Haider very much. I think that was also the main reason for a total of six or seven mistrust applications. You see, however, that the work of our Minister of Justice is really completely undisputed and high-quality. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the context of the debate on the judiciary and a temporary appointment, the Minister of Justice has clearly stated not only yesterday in the ORF, but also today and also in the media – and this does not allow any more interpretations – that he does not think of it. In this context, however, let me say something: I too know from my work in court that a large number of judges really work under a very high mental pressure with great performance and perform great things. However, there are also individual cases – and I believe that individual cases should also be addressed in this context – in which: Some procedures simply take longer. It is not a matter of statistics either, but it is primarily about people who are insecured by a ongoing court procedure, who have sleepless nights, problems and concerns, as the Minister of Justice has done, who have to take credit and the like. I mean, it can also be thought of what could be done to move a small number of judges to do the same as they do a large number of their colleagues. It must not be prohibited to discuss it. Coming to the end: The statements made by the Minister of Justice were perfectly clear. And I think that the appeal to this issue is very artificial, because, for example, in the Federal Republic of Germany, there are the appointments on time for judges. There is the appointment on time, at twelve years, but there is also the appointment on trial, for five years. So there is also this discussion in other countries. However, we assume – and this has been unmistakably explained – that this will not be the case with us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21423	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. The clock is set to 7 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21441	Mr. Federal Minister! Perhaps I would not have mentioned it any more if Mr Mainoni had not now, so to speak, appointed himself as your defender of duty. I don't assume that this happened on your behalf. But, of course, it's just asking me out. Minister! After your speech in the current discussion – it has not yet been torn off, but I have to say, what I have just been able to convince myself about on the Internet on the basis of tomorrow’s newspapers, that a principle has just been violated – I have to say that I cannot share your opinion there. You have spoken in your speech about the fact that the current proposal has been submitted by you in a brainstorming which was intended to shorten the duration of the procedure. – Correct me if I don't return it right now! – I now put it in my words: Among other things, the idea was also ventilated to order the judges only on time, because then they would be subjected to pressure. How else would the Connex be understood between a debate on such an essential rule of law as the inadmissibility of the judges and their appointment to a lifetime and a discussion on the duration of the proceedings? . I share your concern about the length of the proceedings, but I am not at all of your opinion if you just get that into your mind in this discussion. As I have now seen, well-known constitutional judges, namely those who are now engaged as experts in the Constitutional Convention, i.e. the President of the Constitutional Court, Korinek, and Professor Mayer, have made clear what the ventilation – as it is now called – means by such ideas. That's why this public call, as you called it, is so important to me. I say that it simply belongs to a cultured discussion in a rule of law that when such ideas are ventilated – in the transferred sense. The fact that the member of the Mainoni Justice Committee is quite supportive of you in these ventilation intentions proves that you are not alone with this. Minister! However, my confidence in you is greater than that in Mr Mainoni, and I hope I am not mistaken. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That honors me very much!]] And now a few words on the matter: I do not repeat what Mr Drunkl and Mr Jarolim have said on the matter. Estimated colleague Drinkl! It was already an extraordinary situation, so I would call it that we experienced last week before a judicial committee meeting, that is what we have to say. She was even so extraordinary that she was unique to everyone, I mean. Today, as before, we are once again in harmony, because the opposition is constructive and interested in material solutions, contrary to the word messages that come from the ranks of the government parties. Unrest in the matter has not brought the opposition, but the unrest on this point has been brought by the government groups to the judicial committee, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: The unrest came from outside!]] It is a perfectly logical, normal parliamentary procedure, that lobbyists, as it is so beautiful in Neudeutsche, use every opportunity of interest representatives, and whether it is up to the last second of the decision-making of a law to deposit their interests, especially if they consider them to be seriously neglected. They would betray their own interests, they would not. Nevertheless, it is now on the issue of unanimity that comes about because the arguments of the long and intensive preparation of this law are right. It is just as true, however, that the interests of the credit protection association have clearly not been taken into account in the same intensity in the process as – and I say this a little salopp – for example banking interests. This too can be said without immediately negotiating the Rules of Procedure to take advantage of parliamentary practices of an unusual nature, namely not to vote in the Committee and then to vote in the plenary session of the National Council. A third and last comment on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. It is also something that God is Thanks not so often to the fact that we have long prepared legislative initiatives at the table – before the summer there was already the government template, and there has been a lot of time in total – and then five minutes before the committee meeting there is a huge package of substantial changes, not amendments, but additions. I understand all the concerns raised by the lawyer, and that is why, of course, there will be approval. But I have to say, Minister, that the process is already a bit questionable, because, and I have already addressed this to the President of the Justice Committee today, similar political or professional concerns also represent the notaries. At least to me as a judge, they have already come several times, and I am not at a similar pace in the judicial sector when it comes to implementing them. Minister! This should perhaps be given to you as a small thought sports task for the rest of the evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21491	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Donnerbauer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21509	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Leave I should like to refer briefly to the comments made by my predecessor, who meant that it would have been a very extraordinary situation. That was without a doubt. But it also meant that the government parties were also indebted somewhere and that it would be nothing extraordinary if lobbyists spoke. Well, Mrs Mag. Stoisits, that lobbyists are talking about, is certainly not exceptional, but that individual lobbyists in a matter that has been negotiated for many years with the involvement of all parties should have the opportunity, alone, to express their opinion in the Committee on Justice, that would not be fair and especially in a matter in which all those concerned have tried hard for a compromise over the years, even from the point of view of everyone else in the process were not in order. That's what I'm talking Now, however, on the proposals to be put to the debate and on the matter of decision-making, I should like to refer to a proposal concerning an amendment to the Rules of Procedure and the Notary Regulations. It is not as it is mistakenly suspected by some that, whenever it comes to the legal order, it is about any additional sugars for lawyers. On the contrary: This matter is one that affects lawyers and notaries quite negative, in so far as it concerns the implementation of the European Union's money laundering directive and, of course, the special relationship of trust that exists between the legal professions and their clients and must also exist in order for this system to work. In a certain contrast to this relationship of trust, the legitimate interest of society and the state is to enable effective persecution in certain serious crimes. Finding a balance between these two Poles is quite difficult, as one can imagine, and it also leads to the imposition of certain reporting obligations on those professions, lawyers and notaries, which they can bring into a certain conflict with their obligations and trust relationship to their clients, but which also put them at risk of judging independently, when there is a suspicion, or when such a one does not exist, and when, therefore, one should not make such notifications to protect one's own client. The draft vote on this motion for a resolution will be a good solution on this trip between the various Poles by imposing this reporting obligation on the one hand, and on the other hand by restricting the reporting obligation to certain areas which are of particular importance in the area of organised crime or terrorism on the other. Baghtell cases, i.e. when it comes to funds in a bagato area, are excluded from this scheme. I believe that it has succeeded in bringing the various poles described under one hat, so that, on the one hand, efficient work and performance of the tasks of the professionals concerned will continue to be possible without excessive risks arising, and on the other hand, an efficient instrument for preventing and combating serious crimes in the area of terrorism and organised crime. At the end of the day, I should like to refer very briefly to the Basic Accounting Act, which has already been mentioned by my colleague, Drinkl. It is a very important step towards facilitating and improving access to these documents, but also making them more efficient by the courts. To manage matters more efficiently by making possible questions about IT in the future. My wish to the Minister of Justice and to the Ministry of Justice is to include, as soon as possible, the documents from the collection of documents from the past in this electronic document register, so that it will not take years until half an interesting stock of documents is actually recorded electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21567	The next speaker was Mr Puswald. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21585	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Mainoni is wrong: This law does not provide sufficient legal certainty, does not have good quality, but unfortunately it is a continuation of the Husch-Puff legislation which we have been used to by this black and blue government for months. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was “deep - eyed ” again!]] The consequences are not as fatal as in the Husch-Pfusch legislation in the budget accompanying laws with the leased pension reduction reform, the catch-hunting purchase, which will make all of us terrible headaches, and so on and so on. The blamable voest-privatization was also broken by the fence and falls into the category Husch-Fusch-Laws. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Let's stay honest!]] Why am I also talking about a Husch-Fuch-Law? – The tragedy is – and this is particularly unfortunate – that we have a law that has been under negotiation for six years, which has been prepared by officials of the highest quality – and I say the latter very clearly so that I do not turn the word around again in the mouth. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And then what is Husch-Fuch?]] We have officials like Dr. Mohr, we have officials of his quality, of top quality who are looking for their same in Austria. If, therefore, we have a legislative text that has a quality for which this House must actually generate itself as a legislator, then it cannot be up to the officials, but then it must be politically implemented. I also tell you what this poor quality is. If you look at § 1 of the Capital Replacement Act, you can see that there is quoted: “A credit granted by a shareholder or a shareholder of the company in the crisis is replaced by equity.” — So. In § 5 the definition follows, only with a small beauty error: There we no longer find the “woman partner”. – Is it now excluded from the law? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: GesmbH!]] We have discussed this in the Committee on Justice, and I know you are deceiving this statement now, but you obviously do not know what judicial practice looks like. I am telling you that this has not improved legal certainty. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Can you say another serious sentence?]] Mr. Drinkl! What is set out here is at best a summary of the Judicatur. – You could have saved that! If we work here as parliamentarians, we should also strive for sufficient quality. We should make laws that are not unnecessary, or, if they are already made, have sufficient quality. In the future, this quality must be demanded and an end to the Hush fuch!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21706	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. The speaking time is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21724	Ladies and gentlemen! The criticism of Mr Puswald is just as convincing here in plenary as in committee. Well, he basically did the same thing. They're talking about "Hush-Puff", about a "bad legislation" and so on. I think, however, that the criticism is really attracted to the hair, Mr. Deputies, because in reality you have presented no other criticisms than that in § 1 “the shareholders” and in § 5 “the partner” is missing, or something like that. Anyway, it's such a vanity that I don't even want to give it back. I think we should be seriously talking about such a law – and not pull anything on our hair, just so you can practice criticism. The fact that we have been working on it for six years is certain that it is simply a new matter, which in practice already has a very broad meaning, but to which there are no laws from neighbouring countries. You just wanted to think about it for quite a long time before you put it into words. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] I would, however, like to comment very briefly on money laundering. Not only as a judge, but also as a security speaker, I think it is very positive that measures are being taken to better control problematic or seemingly problematic investments and to be able to monitor and stop international crime. In particular, the purchase or sale of real estate should now be more closely examined, or notaries and lawyers should also be obliged to disclose identities and to communicate to the criminal authority if they appear to be somewhat plausible. It is the implementation of an EU directive. Although I do not always agree with what we need to implement from the EU, I believe that this is a directive that is important for Austria. We know that international crime, organised crime and terrorism are making progress in our countries, so to speak, and that is why it is also necessary to act. In essence, everything has already been said about the collection of documents, including the Capital Replacement Act, and I would therefore like to end my statements and assure them that we will agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21771	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21789	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! What Mr Puswald said earlier is something that might be worth 10 seconds and no more attention. He has had every opportunity to make improvements proposals, but he has not actually come from any of them. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You've been made! They didn't pick her up!]] He's just looking for any way to say no. I liked what Mr Stoisits said before that she was trying to form a constructive opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What's wrong either!]] And there are already doubts, Mrs Partik-Pablé, but: Mr Puswald does not even try to give himself the impression of constructiveness, but only seeks some reason – and be so ridiculous, grotesque and quirky! – to be able to say no. I am very glad, Mr Puswald, that you are obviously not a pars pro toto of your group today. This law is far too important to comment on such ridiculousness here. This is no more and no less than aid for enterprises and workers: It is about opening up the possibility of saving the company and thus the jobs in companies in crisis situations. This is no reason to speak ironically and cynically in some way! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: I asked for good quality!]] You may lack the practical knowledge of how often the opposition is known. I take this practical knowledge into account, Mr Puswald, and I say to you: This is about the fate of companies and people. Why? – It is about creating, in a difficult situation of a company with this law, the legal certainty that shareholders can be willing to provide liquidity through loans and loans. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Just not!]] This can be decisive – and in many cases it can be. It is up to the legislator to do everything, to help Austrian companies and employees in such situations to secure jobs in these companies – and not to wait until the bankruptcy is there and then to devote itself exclusively to the protection of creditors. This law was therefore such a difficult birth, because a fair balance between the interests of rehabilitation and the protection of creditors was to be found, and the officials of the Ministry of Justice are to be admired, at least in a proper way, that after such a hard work of six years the law is now in place. All stakeholders were heard x-times, the law was preceded by a long review process, it was twice in the Council of Ministers, we ourselves discussed it very intensively in the Committee on Justice, and quite controversially. That is why it cannot be possible for a single interest group, which has not fully achieved its demands, to tip it all at the last moment. We would also create precedents that do not go hand in hand with my self-understanding – and I hope that the majority of the House will do so in the government parties. Our self-understanding is to assume responsibility as legislators, especially when it comes to such an important matter of law. But, unfortunately, there are too many differences between government parties and opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: In quality!]] – In the willingness to take responsibility, since you have said that you should not turn the word around in the mouth. I also ask you to do this! It is good that the SPÖ and the Greens have now revised their opposition from the Justice Committee, that we can take a joint decision today, and I also tell you why: If, as Mr Broukal has also represented today on the issue of the untapped profits that would mark further action, I would like to remind you that it is very advisable for the SPÖ to use every opportunity and give any support if the government and the government parties take legislative initiatives, strengthen and secure businesses and jobs in companies. You know very well the situation and the unemployment rate in the federal states you rule. So that you can't even push it out again, I'll best keep it right in front of you. [[The speaker holds up a bar chart entitled “Unemployment rate in comparison, August 2003”.]] The two tallest red beams are Vienna and Burgenland. In Vienna, there is an unemployment rate of 9.1 percent, and the trend continues to rise.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21900	Your voluntary speaking time has expired, but you can talk further.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21915	I come to the conclusion: That is why I am glad that, at the end of the day, reason and responsibility have been won in the sense of Austrian companies and their employees, and we can adopt this bill together today. I believe that we will meet our responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21945	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e21964	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If I hear what Mr Ikrath said, I have to say: I think it is a bit a pity, as a consensus matter that has become so rare in this House, such as these three templates which we are now discussing in one. I would also like to make a few critical comments on one of the three proposals, namely the one on which Mr Ikrath has referred and which I would like to add to my colleague Mr Puswald. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's not good!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: No good decision!]] There is a matter in which there are objections to which the credit protection association says in the Capital Replacement Act, there are objections and concerns, and the Members ask to deal with them. The normal reaction of every reasonable person would actually be to say: Let us listen to these objections! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: We have read them! Even better!]] If we are dealing with these objections, let us see if they do not make sense. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It was nothing reasonable!]] I was very pleased that the Federal Minister has joined this opinion and has also said: Let us not wipe them out of the table, but let us deal with what the credit protection association says about the equity law! If he says something meaningful, then we will implement it if not – this is in our political decision – then not. Mrs. Fekter! I was horrified. It is precisely this dialogue ability – a good tradition of the Committee on Justice – that you do not, of course, raise this very ability to accept objections that exist in order to deal with them. I would just like to recall the scenes that took place in the minutes before the start of this meeting of the Committee on Justice: The Minister of Justice and all political groups say: Let's get together with what the KSV says! – On the other hand, they run around anxiously, dialogueally and shrillly, trying to create a situation that I believe is unworthy of a judicial committee and also contradicts the good tradition of the judicial committee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: But go!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: No!]] However, I would also like to focus very briefly on the presentation on the amendment of the legal code, the Law Law Law Law and the Notarial Code. I think this is a very important matter, because this is not only true lawyers and notaries, but because, as I believe, it is also of great social importance. The implementation of the EU money laundering directive is also about the fight against terrorism, which is in all our interest, and also about it – and I think it is right in this paper – that all the obligations relating to the EU money laundering directive apply not only to the financial authorities but also to lawyers and notaries in the future. I think it is important, however, that we always have to reflect on everything we discuss under the title "Terrorism Control" – also because there are bad international examples – how far measures can be taken to combat terrorism, without at the same time bringing about an irresponsible reduction of citizens' rights. I believe that this is a democratically important discussion and that, on the basis of the presentation of the Minister of Justice and, in particular, the experts in the Ministry, it has succeeded in putting on the table a presentation that contributes to the fight against terrorism, but does not mean a restriction or a threat to citizens' rights and is therefore a correct implementation of this EU directive. Therefore, the SPÖ will be very happy to agree to these three templates – but not without critical comments!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22076	Mrs Fekter is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22094	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I have been addressed several times today. Mr Jarolim spoke of an “emotional dispute”. Right, I was – I have to say quite honestly – emotional, I was also really upset, but, Mrs Bures: I'm afraid I wasn't! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: We can confirm that!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] I'm glad we found consensus here and that this is a consensus matter. I would like to thank the Minister, who has also contributed to the achievement of this consensus, very much. Mrs Bures and Mr Jarolim, what really happened? – The fact was that one week before the Committee meeting, in a four-party discussion, we also discussed the opposition of the opposition to the proposals. But not one syllable has come from there! Mr Puswald, for example, could have already suggested an amendment at the time so that we could have taken this into account with the “society” or the “societyer”. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: At the time he had not read it!]] Unfortunately, nothing came from you back then. By the way, Mr Puswald: You are still very new to the Justice Committee, and I am therefore concerned to inform you that we do not maintain a beer table jargon in the judicial committee. There, an objective argument is made, admittedly emotional and also in divergent topics. [[Abg. Bures: Not since you've been there! It used to be!]] But such a polemic way, in the judicial committee, there is no one member besides you – no one else from their group! - on the day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: It was purely objective!]] In the case of government documents coming from the judiciary, talking of ‘husch-pusch’, it is absolutely unjustified and a desavowing of the civil service, which is made up of excellent legitimists. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: I have expressly excluded them!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's right!]] I thank those lawyers who always prepare the laws excellently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I reject the fact that unrest would have come from the government group. The reality was that a lobbyist group or a person, Dr. Kantner of the KSV, who was very likely also involved in the six-year preparatory phase, gave us his opinion the day before the Committee on the Media. As committee chairman, I received an e-mail at 6:30 p.m. in the evening, in which he rejected the entire law and wanted to rewrite everything. – That was reality. This lobbyist then believed to be heard by the media pressure as the only person in the committee and, as it were, to be able to renegotiate there in his interest. We are accustomed to lobbyists coming to us, but the Justice Committee does not shoot out of the hip and not at all on media pressure, but we will maintain our previous system of serious preparation and negotiation with the experts and involve the opposition in front of the committee in order to maintain the relevant framework in the committee. Mr Puswald, I would like to ask you to express yourself more objectively in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22237	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22256	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we have considered this law again in a sub-area in the last second has already been discussed. I understand from the point of view of Mrs. President of the Justice Committee that she was not right, but to bear in mind that, in view of the weight of the organisation which raised the concerns – albeit too late – it was not bad that we had put ourselves together again. This should not be repeated so quickly, I am entirely of your opinion. I would like to thank all the Members who took part in this discussion. It was useful, and it has led us to decide that this law will be evaluated. We will therefore evaluate the effects of the 2003 Social and Insolvency Change Act, in particular, taking into account small and medium-sized enterprises in three years' time from the date of their effective implementation. So I will tell you how this law has an impact on the new Judicatur in relation to the previous Judicatur and whether there is a danger that small and medium-sized enterprises in particular will have an impact on the new Judicatur. This is particularly true with regard to the credit recorded and, as described, with regard to the comparison of the legal situation between earlier and now. On the other questions raised, Mrs Stoisits, I would like to say once again: I told you my point of view. We will now carry out a comparison at international level in the context of a competition for ideas, in order to bring about procedural accelerations – and that is the real issue. As far as the comparison is concerned, it has already been established that we will compare the German and Austrian legal situations with the legal situation of the reform states: what they are doing to speed up the process, and what is happening in Germany and Austria. You'll see that there's going to be a lot of ideas coming. What I don't want is that mere ideas that are expressed fall under "strafsanctions". We should let this Commission work once. You'll see: In the interests of our people, the procedures will then be greatly accelerated. That was the very basic idea, and we should return to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22295	The last speaker on this point is Mr Parnigoni. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22313	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For the purpose of the acceleration of the procedure mentioned by the Minister, three comments. First of all: We know very well that a lot of Mafia money will also be stored in the banks in Austria. We know reports that there have been more than 200 suspects in the last year alone. Some €17 million has become known to the Federal Criminal Office. It is therefore clear to us that not only money from the intoxicated mafia, but also from tow organisations and arms dealers, as well as money from other criminal transactions have been deposited. I therefore welcome the implementation of the EU Directive to strengthen the control of money laundering, which is also a criminal aid to terrorist organisations. Second comment: The Federal Criminal Office is certainly particularly suitable for this task. I would like to maintain that it is not only about fighting international crime and major crime, but also about the fact that this organization is suitable for fighting the many mass crimes that are increasing in our country, and to ensure that the reconnaissance rate in our country is rising again. Ladies and gentlemen! As a third comment, I can only say: Mr Puswald was really extremely objective in the committee. I can confirm this: He was extremely objective! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: The Committee!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Is that something surprising?]] I think I really know Mrs Fekter for many, many years. I've seen them... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But she's not scared!]] I confirm, she's not afraid. But I also know her as a Secretary of State, I have experienced her for many years in this function, and I have noticed that she has always followed certain interests very closely. She was sometimes very unilaterally fixed, that's quite clear. And now, when Members banished into the bank again, it sometimes seems that they suffer certain emotional outbreaks. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Sometimes, too, a little bit of consensus suffers, and that is unfortunate. But I think, Mr Fekter, you too are able to improve and restore consensus. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] We still agree with these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22395	Mr Jarolim, you have been calling in plenary for 3 minutes – we are now coming to the votes. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: What does he want to say?]] No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur obviously does not wish a final word. We shall therefore proceed to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. We first come to the vote on the draft federal law establishing an equity replacement law, as well as amending the bankruptcy order and other laws – social and insolvency change law 2003 together with title and receipt in 211 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this draft law a sign. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Where is Puswald?]] – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask for a sign of approval. – Mrs Stoisits, sit or stand? You stand, that's a sign of approval. – That is therefore unanimously accepted. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the legal order and other laws as well as the notarial regulations, including title and entry into 213 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill for a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the draft federal law, which amends the Basic Book Transfer Act – GUG-Novelle 2003, together with the title and entry into 193 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign of approval. – The law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 9. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (55 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the extension of the scope of the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters to Ballei Guernsey (215 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22455	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. No one has spoken. We shall now proceed to the vote. If, as proposed in the Committee's report 55 of the Supplements, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question is approved, I would ask for a sign of approval. - Mrs. Stadler? Mr. Haubner? – This is unanimously accepted. 10. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues in a federal law amending the trade regulations in 1994 (119/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22502	We're on the 10th. Agenda item. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Deputies Mag. Molterer, Dr. Cap and Scheibner discuss themselves in front of the series of seats.]] There's a collapse of the club people here. I would like to ask you to stop this out of respect for the speaker. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr President, we did not “rot”!]] In any case, there is no proper attention for a speaker. My job is to ensure this respect. [[General condolences.]] Mr deputies, you have spoken. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22542	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! “The Mohr has done its guilt, the Mohr can go!” [[Abg. Neudeck: Is it self-advertising?]] This statement, ladies and gentlemen, could be applied to this motion for a law introduced by the Socialist Group. We are pleased to note that this proposal for an initiative has led – after a longer discussion in the Health Committee – to the inclusion of this provision in the amendment of the opening act and the amendment of the trade regulation. The reason for this legislative initiative was the implementation of the Food Supplements Directive, which is now taking place by train. At the time, the proposal by Mr Donabauer and Mr Lichtenegger did not provide for such a scheme. In fact, it should be ensured that the ban on the supply of food supplements is maintained. – As far as this matter is concerned. However, allow me to comment briefly on the issue of food supplements, which is directly related to this proposal for a law. We experienced this summer again that some athletes had taken contaminated food supplements, in which a further positive doping result was given. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, since March this year there has been a motion for a resolution by the Socialist Group, in which this problem is presented in detail and also indicates the ways in which the House should go in order to solve these problems. High house! Food supplements should be assessed primarily in food and in accordance with food legislation. However, these doping substances – substances listed on the IOC doping list – or pharmacologically effective substances, they are medicinal products. In Austria, we are faced with the problem of the fact that no appropriate controls are being carried out in this area, and that there is no clear government structure, so that it always happens that contaminated food supplements are placed on the market, not only for performance athletes but also for leisure sportsmen, especially in the fitness sector. I therefore call on the government parties to return the proposal of the Socialist Group on unclean food supplements to be qualified as medicinal products to the agenda of the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22582	We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Requested time: 5 minutes. - You don't need to take advantage of them, Mr. Cot.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22603	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not going to take this time off. – Mr Maier has already presented it in himself: In essence, no, we have already done the task within the framework of the business regulation novelle in connection with the shop opening system in June, which is why the matter is irresistible. I just want to add one more sentence. If you look at the trade regulation in 2002, which was a wild dispute, from the effect, you can see that there have been increases in 27 trades and nine trades sectors. In Germany, they see a decline in the number of business start-ups reached; in Austria, the trade regulation has contributed to trigger a corresponding boom for founders despite the economic crisis. That is why I am allowed to say: a positive effect of the 2002 industrial regulation!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22637	The next speaker is Mr Lichtenegger. Requested time: 5 minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22655	The “mohr” is probably me. . I am very glad that we have also changed the trade regulations with regard to food supplements. It has also been very important to me this year that this problem... [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] This is, of course, a serious problem; now it has affected me. I think that was very important, and maybe it was a wink with the fence stake that it hit me exactly because I have the opportunity to do some educational work on it. Food supplements – as I learned this summer, no one really has any idea what that is. If you go to drug trafficking somewhere and buy vitamin C breast tablets or multivitamin tablets, this is nothing but food supplements. The problem is: Those companies that produce these things do not do business with us 100 or 150 performance athletes in Austria, but do billions of sales themselves in Austria with the Most hobby and leisure sportsmen and those who want to live healthyly and take such products, because they do not have the time and the opportunity to take these things over the diet – often simply because of stress, or whatever. We are far from dealing with the problem of trade. I myself know that few companies adhere to the trade regulations and that there are still a lot of food supplements that can be used on the transit trade. These supplements are simply not subject to a quality standard as they apply to medicinal products subject to the GMP quality standards which are very strict in Austria. This is not the case with these supplements. It will also be difficult to deal with this problem, because it is not an Austrian problem but a European one. We can only deal with the matter in such a way that we are testing in greater depth: testing more in the fitness centers, testing more in the shipping trade, testing more with imports. The hook on history – I know it myself – is that the tests are relatively expensive. The only institute in Austria that can carry out such tests – the contamination of such food supplements is in the nanogram range, and the tests cost about €220 per control – is the research center Seibersdorf. Therefore, it will be difficult to get hold of this matter. As far as I know, in some countries there is already a slightly larger budget for this, and I hope that we can do a little bit about this problem. Because as a normal consumer, as a hobby sportsman, you should be able to make sure as a healthy sportsman that you do not take anything that is not on the packaging. So, as I said earlier, I'm glad it hit me. I can, or we can, protect my sports colleagues here with this change of trade regulations, perhaps also raise public opinion on food supplements a little awareness and also draw people's attention to the need to take care of what they are doing. In this sense: a beautiful evening still! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22709	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. As requested, I agree with the request 119/A to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Gisela Wurm, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on Documentation in Education (Education Documentation Act), BGBl. I 12/2002, as amended (129/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22746	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First, the applicant, Mrs Mag. Worm, the word. Your speaking time is about 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22772	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Again and again, concerned parents, students and also teachers come to me as Members of Parliament who are particularly concerned with citizens. In this case, they have concerns and complaints about the so-called Education Documentation Act, and also because there are data which are very sensitive here. For example, the question here is: the religious confession, the social security number and also the position of the parents in the profession. I do not believe that this is absolutely necessary to determine the course of education. I mean, this is really highly sensitive data. It is not even necessary to cross or make known the religious confession in the registration paper. What do I need to announce a religious commitment to establish a course of education?- Oh, my God! I don't think that's necessary anymore. It is also incomprehensible in the case of the social security number: Why does the student/supplier have to Does the student report the social security number to the teachers? It is regulated differently, all possible places have access to, or can collect, the data. These are the principals, the teachers, the class boards, the secretaries in schools with the federal agency. It's an opportunity for thieves to know that. I believe that the danger of data being linked is that the fundamental right to data protection is seriously violated here. I would therefore like these three provisions to be simply and simply deleted for the purpose of surveying the data. This is not necessary, even if one wants to determine the course of education.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22805	We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Amon. 5 minutes speaking time. But they don't need to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22833	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! To my predecessor: We have, when we passed the Education Documentation Act last year, sufficiently and comprehensively discussed it. [[Abg. May. Worm: The Data Protection Council has objected!]] It is true that we really have a great interest in anonymised education processes, yes, if we make a targeted education policy. Since we have discussed today, for example, the question of socio-economic backgrounds and the effects on the course of education, we naturally have to collect these data. It seems to me, however, that this fear of abuse in this context is a little exaggeration, because, of course, where people work with data, there is always the risk of abuse. This is without a doubt true, but I would think that you should not ask the SPÖ of the Federal Government to do what you do in your sphere of influence yourself. I have here a registration form of the Magistratsbereich 11A in Vienna, in which we are talking about registrations for the year 2003/2004 regarding children's cribs, kindergartens and horte of the city of Vienna. Not only do you ask for family and first names – of course! –, mother tongue and nationality. There is the question of the employment of the parents, the mother, whether she is employed, in training or in Karenz. They also ask for the social security number – and not only for the mother's social security number, but also for the father's social insurance number and for the children's social security number! [[Aha-Rufe on orders from ÖVP and the liberals]] [[Abg. May. Worm: What is this supposed to do? That's all the same!]] So if you think that this is so problematic, I would recommend that you abolish it first in Vienna with your absolute majority.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22902	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22920	Mr President. High house! I agree with what my previous speaker said and would just like to point out once again that social security data are already being requested in essential areas and, of course, this data protection is also applicable. [[Abg. May. Worm: That doesn't make it better!]] If the social security number is no longer required, for example, Statistics Austria could not carry out this data collection, which is also needed for OECD or UNESCO studies and for EU statistics as a whole. [[New call of the abg. May. Worm.]] I'm still coming to a religious confession. It is important that this is raised because one has to know and take into account the behaviour of the students or the confession of the students. These are, of course, sensitive data, which are also explicitly treated as sensitive data, including in the Data Protection Act. No one is against abuse, we know, but we assume that this is not an abuse. Finally, I would like to say that from our point of view, there is currently no need for action to amend the Education Documentation Act. [[Abg. May. Worm: Unconstitutional!]] However, we will observe this sensitively and will be open to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22980	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Brosz. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e22999	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion on the meaning of the introduction of the social security number in this educational documentation law has already led us very intensively on the occasion of the decision-making of this law. Mr. Großruck is now sitting behind his laptop. At the time, we Greens tried to make it clear to him in vain that the combination of the social security number and the so-called educational evidence number is the real problem, because access is therefore possible not only in the educational field, but also for other data collection, such as social security or local authorities. To make this clear again: A mayor can de facto, because he is school-holder in the field of folk schools, of compulsory schools, through the social security number the educational course of all citizens living in his community. The European Parliament and the Council will be working together to We didn't understand what sense it was supposed to make at the time. If it was really a matter of collecting data, as Mr Amon said, of course the social security number was not needed. There is the number of educational evidence. This could be taken the same way, at least not everyone has. So there are other possibilities. This link to request data externally, for example in court proceedings, for example from local authorities, opens up a possibility of abuse, which is certainly not useful. It is also no wonder that the data protectors have spoken of the first as inadmissible and that, secondly, one cannot speak of a data collection, but, in fact, of an educational accounting system in which not everyone, but a relatively further circle, has the opportunity to access these data for 60 years. The argument that you rely anyway that there is no abuse is not really an adequate handling of data protection, because it is not a particularly valid argument. We are certainly in favour of collecting real data in the field of education planning. To what extent the full survey has to be, there is another chapter, but I believe that the claim of the application to increase data security and, in particular, to remove the criterion of the social security number, which provides access for many, would have been legitimate – and would have been legitimate at the time. I think that the government parties in the committee will not really do much, but we will see.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23050	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with request 129/A to the Committee on Education. 12. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Data Protection Act 2000, BGBl. I 1999/1965 as amended by BGBl. I 2001/136, amended (128/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23086	We're now on the 12th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Maier. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23111	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The subject-matter of this application is the personal equipment of the Data Protection Commission or, in general, the offices of the Federal Chancellery dealing with issues relating to data protection, the Data Protection Council and the Data Protection Commission. We received the 2001 data protection report in the spring of this year – including all of you – from which the human deficits that really exist here are clear. It will be the We from SPÖ have repeatedly pointed out this manko in the course of the budgetary consultations. The Federal Chancellor himself has promised to provide more staff for the data protection services. This commitment has not yet been fulfilled; it has even resulted in a further job reduction. The data protection report states that, for example, the Data Protection Commission is no longer even available to a computer scientist, which in part makes the implementation of control procedures according to § 30 DSG 2000. It also says that the work attack cannot be handled in the necessary quality and speed. – The examples could be continued. Therefore, it is crucial from our point of view that Austria has a staffing capacity corresponding to that of comparable countries. Some examples of this: With 8 million inhabitants, Austria has 16 employees in the data protection business, Belgium with 10.7 million inhabitants, 24 employees and Denmark with 5 million people. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The problems will continue to rise. There is now a draft eGovernment law for review. This also provides for the fact that the Data Protection Commission has to function as a master number register authority. - But that won't work! There are other problems. Just remember that the “reported” Herold-CD currently needs to be reviewed by the Data Protection Commission, which contains so-called sensitive data and how these data have been determined. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This bill is intended to ensure that the necessary work concerning data security and data protection is done properly in the Federal Chancellery Data Protection Division. We invite you to join our request.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23175	We are now going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Donabauer. Desirable speaking time: Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23196	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The motion for a law 128/A stands for the discussion, which has now been founded on the question of recruiting more employees. I think it's important to find out a few things about this. First: Austria is an example in the implementation of data protection. We have a data protection law since 1979. We were always pioneers. These were by no means the other European states. The EU Data Protection Directive is far below Austrian level. Especially Roman countries, but also the US, are far away from that status that is standard with us. Austria is able to provide a high level of safety with little staffing. It's working efficiently. It is not just about setting up employees, but about achieving the best possible output. This can be done in an exemplary way in Austria. Therefore, today and here at this first reading, I would like to express my warm thanks to all the employees and officials and also to make it clear that they are doing great things. We will certainly continue to discuss this request in committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23236	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23254	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The current proposal of the Social Democrats is totally empty. It is not clear that the quality of data protection suffers. Every international comparison cited does not provide a basis. With these figures, everyone can argue in any direction. Of course, it can be hoped that even faster, even better work will be done, but I must already point out that this government has to take a savings course precisely because of the policies of the past of the Social Democrats. The quality of data protection will certainly not suffer. We will spend the money where it is necessary, but not on proposals from these requests. That is why the liberals will not support this.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23284	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept the motion for a resolution 128/A to the Constitutional Committee. The agenda is exhausted, but far from our work, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But we don't!]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23319	We are now entering the debate on the request made by Dr Cap, colleagues and colleagues for the establishment of an investigative committee on 'Information on the conduct of the Federal Minister for Finance in respect of the implementation of the ÖIAG Act and all other related laws since 4. February 2000, in particular, sales preparations and sales implementation for the federal shares of voestalpine AG and compliance with the 1998 Employment Act and the Contract stencil Regulation in connection with the appointment and appointment of Supervisory Boards and Boards of the Austrian Industry-Holding-AG.’ This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23456	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes, which makes sense with regard to the extensive mandate requested here. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23481	Thank you, Mr President, for the extensive introduction to this request. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! How are you doing when you read the following: privatized disaster. Karl Heinz With its privatisation actions, Grasser has already placed over €500 million in sand. He's hurting the state. - Quote. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Do you believe everything in the paper?]] What do you say, Mr. Colleague? How are you doing? Is that true, is that not true or are you even expecting praise for it? – I can tell you: The public, the ladies and gentlemen don't praise journalists. On the contrary, Mr Scheibner: You will be criticized in terms of soil and soil for this sluggishing of popular wealth, which you also have to share! [[Abg. Scheibner: Who?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Careful applause!]] What's the government doing? What's the result? – Your own praise is the result! Today, the Federal Chancellor has again delivered a sad spectacle to the Voest-Debakel in his “hereditary phrases”. How does the Minister of Finance appreciate it? – The Minister of Finance praises professional management at ÖIAG. [[Abg. May. Molterer: And Professor Aiger and Professor Felder!]] Oh, my God! At the end of the day, a little bit of €6 million was charged. But that's just the last example of this sad acting. The Minister of Finance was also quite excited that he himself was not praised – and this was due to a report of the Court of Auditors, which had been destroyed for him, as far as the management contracts were concerned. But human, ladies and gentlemen, I can understand: Whoever is praised by the Bureau of the National Council for an inferior budget speech with “brillant speech”, the Minister of Finance even stood on the foot of war with Plus and Minus, since I can already understand that he then gets a little confused with the lines between praise and criticism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Cheerful applause!]] [[Abg. Grossruck: A mistrust request would still be due!]] Ladies and gentlemen! An ÖVP member – I can't remember exactly who that was anymore – has risen to try to attach the SPÖ to the Black Peter for this course malaise. There I have to quote from the “Kurier”, resort economy: The price of €32.50 per share is nothing but a concealment of public property. - Quote. And now it comes: The fact that the Federal Chancellor spoke personally about a price of €32 a week ago, when he was still at just under €37, is inconceivable. Someone should take responsibility for this. - Quote. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's how it looks! Doesn't that justify an investigation committee, Mr. Molterer? [[Abg. Scheibner: What do you want to investigate?]] What kind of imaginative course did the Chancellor of the Federal Republic drive? They like to quote Hannes Androsch again and again. Androsch says it's a pure destruction. [[Abg. Großruck: But he bought it!]] He also says that if private individuals make such a concealment, then that would be stupid, but a pure private matter; but if that does the state, then state assets will be destroyed. [[Abg. Großruck: The Androsch could have paid more quietly for it!]] Mr Grossruck! Why don't you want an investigation committee when state assets are destroyed? You blocked control of the summer. There are plenty of open cases. I am thinking only of Mr Grasser's homepage, of the fee, of the Eurofighters, of the ÖIAG Debakel and so on. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Is there something new?]] They have blocked everything in the committee, but it will nevertheless be clarified. The German Federal Court of Auditors is happy to help in the Eurofighter-Causa. [[Abg. Großruck: That's where your party comrade Struck says something else! He's different!]] There is an identical tax case to Grasser's Honorary Causa. The partial report on the Gagens at the ÖIAG is available, as is the report on the ministerial offices. And your self-representation of ÖIAG would not be better anyway. Mr President, I should like to thank Perhaps you should consider whether it would be better to investigate these things in bodies, because the public is increasingly pushing and asking what is actually going on. Why is there no concept at all at the ÖIAG? For example, this also calls for Johannes Ditz, who says: “ÖIAG has no strategy.” Ladies and gentlemen! Shouldn't you also look at the great manager salaries you've doubled? Or the “Minerva” project, this secret agreement between the Minister of Finance and the investors close to him? Or the secret meeting between stock market managers and insiders that's been put in place? It is significant that the Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein says that it would be absurd to set up a committee of inquiry here. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The Lombard club!]] The role of Manager Wolf, for example, shouldn't you even examine it? [[Abg. Scheibner: What do you want to investigate?]] Ladies and gentlemen! No one here is going to argue that such a thing in the private sector would not even survive a day that in a private group someone has supervision, which is at the same time manager with a buyer. Mr Mitterlehner, I am curious about what you are saying. Ladies and gentlemen! President Fierce is really distinguished by his choice of words and his reluctance. If one of the whales speaks of a step into the face of the rule of law, then a few things must have happened in connection with the Gagen and the stencil regulation. The Secretary of State Alfred Finz was sitting next to it, smiling as always, and meant that one could not give direction to companies. A little later, he thinks, if there had been problems with the stencil regulation, the Supervisory Board should have turned to politics. Please, ladies and gentlemen, that should be clear. In fact, Finz was already on the 19th century. On September 22, 2002 he was briefed on all these matters and had already been informed here in the National Council in March. I would say that he should even devote himself a little more to his duties, the State Secretary Finz, and a little less of the tax causa grasser! As he has searched half of Europe for some sort of opinion, he has found an inappropriate one that he did not even want to show. The sounding laughter of the journalists was actually the fair reward. [[Abg. Grandruck: This is a monologue!]] Mr Großruck! One last: They're not a special detector and a reconnaissance, either, as it turned out. [[Abg. Großruck: He's holding a poet's reading now!]] The government does not fulfil its tasks. She has no concept. She's wasting people's power, then she'll praise herself, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and the ÖVP, are preventing the investigation! This is a method that voters have long seen, Mr Rasinger, and the bill will be presented at the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23736	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes each. Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23765	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say that was a very weak exercise of duty that you offered. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It was not a strong argument, but it was a pure reading of already published in newspapers of playbacks and allegations that were not evidenced by anything at all. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Mr Herb, I must ask you: If you are already applying for an investigative committee, you should distinguish between the duties of an investigative committee and the control of political responsibility. Both of you obviously didn't understand, because it's quite clear: As far as the ÖIAG area is concerned, there is an organ responsibility within the meaning of the Supervisory Board as regards the stencil regulation, there is a clear responsibility of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has also acted accordingly here. This also applies to Mr Androsch. This does not need to give great interviews, for example in the “NEWS” of today, but it should look at the 2000 Court of Auditors report and sell the salinity. He didn't go all the way he could have run. He would have had enough to do with reading about the waste of wealth. But as far as your approach here is concerned, I must say that you are not at all a material and formal reason. If you take your own request very briefly and then look at what happened, then you see that all that the government has done is essentially respected: The best possible value increase of the company, the In the future, according to the management statements, management will take place because the management is finally exempt from the policy and will invest €2 billion there. On this basis, an increase of around 40 percent is expected. Second point: They do not believe that the decision-making structures and the research and development structures in Upper Austria, remain in Linz. There is a corresponding partnership between shareholders, which provides that nothing is sold here. There's no evidence at all that something should happen, so that something goes away. On the contrary: The Linz site is reinforced. The shareholders have thus also won correspondingly in the employee sector. So there's one point left open, and you can really discuss it: What about the maximum of the proceeds? – There is actually a contradiction that you should see. If you had really been for the maximum of the proceeds, then you would have had to accept a strategic partner, but then Mr. Haider in Linz would not have been able to place, this and that should not have happened, because in the final effect this would have been the maximisation of the yield. You did not want to do that, you have raised the subject politically accordingly. Then the second one happened. – You can understand this at the stock price: In the final effect, your political discussion, the awakening of emotions and the activities of the Works Council have contributed to the fall of the stock exchange price. That is why you owe it to yourself and would actually have to apply for an investigation committee against yourself if you found that the maximum was not achieved, which might otherwise have been established or could have been achieved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It remains one last thing: non-sale. That's your theory. Mr. Moser and others always say it's a wonderful mixed property. To do this, I have to tell you: But you don't know the capital market! That's where everyone tells you: A publicly influenced company, up to 15, 25 or no matter how much percent, is poorly assessed by the capital market accordingly. This is a disadvantage for the favourable development of the company. You should see that, ladies and gentlemen! I've already mentioned what an investigation order might be formal. So that is what They present here, essentially nothing but the artificial and quite inadequate attempt to get a subject that will actually be relatively quickly over, politically alive, with the sad consequence that another discussion of the matter will harm the company. Ladies and gentlemen! You must therefore not be surprised if our group vehemently rejects this motion.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23847	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Moser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23866	Ladies and gentlemen! You have heard Mr Mitterlehner and his interpretation of the increase in the value of the company itself. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: make a suggestion!]] My previous experience as a company leader has shown that a company will be worth more if you invest, and not when you sell. That's the difference, Mr Mitterlehner! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Have you not listened?]] You have to take note of this. That's the first point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I made a long phone call with Mr. Strull today, and he confirmed to me that the uncertainty in the Voest only occurred when the ÖVP and the Blue exerted enormous pressure on privatisation. That was actually the point. In the last ten years, a company has been peacefully built up by the mixed ownership structure. That was actually the essential reason why the Voest came to a good result. Second point: If you had not sold the company, the State would have taken much more of the dividend income than you have now realized with this low price by selling. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: (in the direction of ÖVP and the Freeman) You have built a loss, that is the truth!]] That's the central point. Finally, it must also be noted that this entire privatization shaft was simply broken by ideologically justified concealment of the fence. I would just like to ask a few more questions now: Why has there been such a great uncertainty about the Voest deal in this Federal Government? Why did Minister Böhmdorfer write a letter to the Board of Directors of ÖIAG and to the Supervisory Board? Why did the ÖIAG Board of Directors and Supervisory Boards ask for a letter from Minister Grasser, who has put it in shame and indictment in it? – An important question! Why is Minister Böhmdorfer on 5 May? Did not the representatives of the capital and did not speak to the workers' representatives? - This question is open. Probably these people are too few for him. Why does Minister of Finance Grasser say that the voestalpine imagination is in the stock? – An important question! Why, then, is a 10 percent fall in prices at the expense of all Austrians? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Because the Upper Austrian SPÖ was Polish! That's the truth!]] Mr Mitterlehner, this is a very important point for you: Why's the 5th time? Is there a dramatic increase in stock sales on September? It was done the tenfold of what was usual. Why did Federal Chancellor Schüssel know at a very early date that the share will be worth €32? [[Abg. Großruck: A good merchant!]] The key question is: To whom was something done? Why did the safeguarding of the nuclear shareholder not succeed? Ladies and gentlemen, all these are questions you have to answer! Why did ÖIAG have to make a 2 million € expensive advertising campaign to get only 6,000 single-signers? Per single signer 250 €, this is an incredible sum! What is the role of Director-General Scharinger in this regard? Do you think that Minister Bartenstein or Mr. Prinzhorn would sell their companies under their own resources? Do you believe this? Ask this question! [[Abg. Ellmauer: This is not a steel company! Look at the values of international steel companies! You want to be a specialist?]] What does the ÖIAG do with 550 million € Hiking bonds? With these € 550 million, it cannot remove any liabilities, it must interconnect. This is a reserve for dividend policy for Minister Grasser. In this context, the question must be asked: What happened? Ladies and gentlemen! All these cases show: Here Austrian interests are betrayed; here Austrian laws are disregarded; here Austrian wealth is given to someone. All of this requires complete information, and we have therefore requested this committee of inquiry. It is a good opportunity for you, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! Use this opportunity to clarify, then Austria will take a better path again! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e23982	Mr Scheibner is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e24000	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mitterlehner referred to this debate and the desire of the SPÖ for a committee of inquiry as a ‘compulsory exercise’. [[Call to the liberals: we don't need it!]] – I’d say it’s not just a duty exercise, but it’s one of the leaner results of a SPÖ club, and that’s what I’m surprised about. I say once again what I have said today: I would also recommend the SPÖ to go out a little in other ways, perhaps then you have a better inspiration and other results of content than those really just leading activities like this request for the setting up of an investigation committee. The arguments are not new either. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Unfortunately!]] We've expected you to bring something worthwhile here once. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Unfortunately!]] Mr Herzegovina, I do not want to say here what I think of your speech. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs:... Minerva!]] Please! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] You don't understand it either, when you make calls. Mr Herzegovina! You have quoted several newspaper reports here, but you should also quote other newspaper reports, such as one from the “standard”, which is certainly not close to the ÖVP or the FPÖ, and which here quotes your messages – even the business spokesman Hans Moser – as “remarkable” who calls what you give of yourself “separate” and “unsense” and who believes that it is even surprising that “so much as a nonsense of top politicians” is told. Your arguments are described here as “non-essential plantation”. – It seems that the rejection of Voest-Privatisation is not as uniform as you presented it. They also discussed the price difference. If you want to investigate this, then you don't need an investigation committee, but then you just need to look into the Internet and get the development of the Voest share to get you comfortable. [[The speaker keeps a diagram up to date with the development of the Voest share.]] I've already said this today, but I think it's good to take another look at when the stock price fell and when it went up: He increased at the time when it became clear for the first time that the privatisation was being made serious, even then when it was about finding a strategic partner. He has fallen when you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, made this voest-privatization the topic of election campaign and therefore the investors have been insecure! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] It would be interesting to clarify this, but we do not need an investigation committee, because this would be – and we know that – a match of your political action, carried out on the back of an important company and on the back of the workers of the Voest! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Oja!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Tombs of the Voest!]] It was interesting – we have seen it once in a “time in picture 2” – when the management of the company – which is not so far away from you – which Voest has really informed the employees authentically about the outcome of privatisation and the employees have come through your propaganda into this business assembly and calmed down on the results. This is the difference between propaganda and authentic information. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I have already said this today: The time was not the right one, he was not optimal, especially because one knew that country elections took place in Upper Austria and because one had to fear that this topic was being used polemically and tactically. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That you fall by!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Certain criteria were important to us as a liberal. Mr Matznetter, you did not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution which contained the criteria for the privatisation of the Voest. We would have liked your approval for these criteria, but you were against them. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: They weren't kept!]] We are happy today that it has succeeded in expanding employee participation. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: 10 percent was already out in June!]] We are glad that there is still an impact of ÖIAG on the company over the next three years, and we are glad that there is also a wide distribution among the population over the sale of shares. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also revealing if you are saying here the suspicion that the low tax price has been chosen so because you want to be a privatisation success over forecast price gains in the next few weeks and months. You're talking about shame here. It's interesting why you suspect that. – That’s why you did it the same way, because when you carried out the Voest privatisation part 1 – that is, more than 50 percent – it was exactly that way. [[Abg. May. Gässner: Consolation!]] Yes, you may have been able to speak of a disaster! The price of the Voest rose by 14 percent on the first day. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: At that time there was a profit, and now you have a loss of sale!]] At that time you started the course too low and the shares were wasted by € 28 million. That was not the example we followed!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e24210	As the last speaker, Mr Mag. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e24228	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we can discuss which parts of transactions on stock exchanges really need an investigation committee. There would be financial market supervision, this or that. There are, however, enough processes concerning these privatisations, which could very well be required by an investigation committee, and a few arguments are urgent. First of all, Mr Scheibner: Actually, we – or rather you – need an internal committee of inquiry, because if I remember correctly, it was FPÖ ministers who were more or less desperate on the day of the so-called beginning of privatization to the ÖIAG headquarters, with legal opinions which, as I mean, were not so disparaging at all. It was claimed by Mr Vice-Chancellor that the entire government decision can only end in that 25 percent must stay with the ÖIAG. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's it!]] I wouldn't have shared this opinion... [[Abg. Scheibner: He didn't say!]] – Of course he said that! He said that to the surprise of all, I admit, but he said it. [[Abg. Scheibner: He said: If it is not possible, the 25 percent...!]] Now you will have to agree on what you're going to do for a line. Just praise ÖIAG's influence on the convertible bond again, while five seconds before the same influence was very bad. – Now you really need to clarify this internally, how you want to get it on the line. In one point, however, your confusion is understandable. The confusion was written against the voices of the opposition into the Privatisation Act, into the ÖIAG Act: conflicting goals, all – because they sound beautiful – interconnected. – That's how the accident has taken its course. Of course, Parliament cannot use an investigation committee against the legislator, I give you the right. But one could have also successfully privatized conflicting goals. Mr Mitterlehner! But now you have to clarify and excite that, why your voice is written in, maximum proceeds are to be achieved, and on the other hand, all that is still good and expensive, namely core shareholder, headquarters in Linz, research and development. Of course, this contradicts – we have pointed out that! – and now you want to issue the investigation committee with the same arguments from SPÖ. So, one might expect more counter-arguments from an economic party! In any event, it could have been made different, and at this point we are no longer discussing pro or counter privatisation, but how it was done and who bears responsibility for it – and this is the reason for an investigation committee. All privatizations have certain shortcomings, but now the thing culminates, even with the VA TECH. Add the sums that you can assume here, depending on your position, as lost, the amounts that were lost due to wrong practices. And that is not just the greens or the SPÖ, but many experts say: wrong procedure, wrong time and, even more dramatic, wrong time span, wrong handling of privatisation. And there is a political responsibility immediately, because no one who has observed how it is between the Ministry of Finance and Kantgasse believes that they could still work completely autonomously there. No one can believe that! You'd have to throw these managers out over the night. In reality, the Minister of Finance is interested in this, because he has governed in this way – in this way! And that's why it's about political responsibility, and "financial minister" may also be the wrong name. At least in connection with privatisations, this is a ministry for the completion of various large-scale damage, obviously with intention. In my view, this is a cause of damage with intent, and that is the problem. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But it is not a damage where there is no benefit for certain customers on the other hand, because you have something of it if you get something cheap. And now you’re still going here and talking about the beneficiaries as the “core shareholders. ” You know it very well and much better: There's no core shareholder! A loose arrangement of stockholders with an Austrian passport is not a core shareholder. You should know that and tell us at least in the afternoon... – Well, by Sunday you will still need it, but don't do this to us, please beautiful! This is an insult to you, but also to everyone else here. – It’s really enough!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e24309	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Members Cap, colleagues and colleagues to set up an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-09-24-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00032_d7e24342	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 211/A (E) to 235/A (E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 815/J to 858/J has also been received. Finally, Question No 9/JPR by Mr Mag. Lapp was introduced to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, dedicated to business communications and allocations, will be convened at 10:24 p.m. I inform you that a meeting of the main committee will take place immediately after the next meeting. The sitting is closed.
