ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3821	Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to take the seats. I'll open the 34. Meeting of the National Council and welcome all of you very cordially. The Official Protocols of 32 and 33. Meeting of 24. In September 2003, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, Mr Lacner has been reported. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3852	I also have a letter from Mr Bundeskanzler, which reads as follows: “I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with resolution of 21. ==References== 300,000/005 BEV/03, in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection Vice chancellor Mag. Herbert Haupt vom Amt as Vice Chancellor. At the same time, on my proposal in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitution Act, the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Hubert Gorbachzum Deputy Chancellor has appointed. Wolfgang Schüssel’
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3884	The Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor have announced their intention, according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. These are on the agenda as points 1 and 2. In addition, there is a request from five Members, concerning these statements in accordance with § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall immediately hold a joint debate. The statements and subsequent debate will take place following the current hour. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3905	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Austria’s rich in generations’ First of all, Mrs Rosenkranz has spoken. I give the floor to her and may ask her to observe the time limit of 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3932	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! ‘Austria-rich’ means: The development of the Austrian population is marked by two constants. For the first time in history, four generations live at the same time. Most of us have come to know their grandparents well, and many have even met their great grandparents – a very encouraging development in themselves. The exciting knowledge and experience of authentic memory far beyond the generations as well as the opportunity to pass them on to younger ones are, of course, a great gain for collective consciousness, in itself a great gain for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3953	Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to lower the general level of noise. We agreed at the Presidential Conference that we should listen carefully here. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3968	Thank you many times, Mr President. – However, the second constant is that the number of young people is getting lower. It is a merit of this government that, the first time that Austrian politics has remained ignorant of its decades of ignorance, it raised the fact into the consciousness and political debate that demographic development is a fundamental issue that must affect all economic and social developments and thus also influence the political consequences. What does Statistics Austria say about this? – Statistics Austria already sums up very well in the title. [[The sound level in the meeting room is still high.]] – I think I have to say a little more provocative things so that peace comes here! We see how little important this issue is still being taken, although it will ultimately be crucial to all of us. Now we are young, brave, sitting here in Parliament and passing laws, including the pension reform, but at some point we will be the ones who have to suffer or enjoy what we are doing here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Statistics Austria summarises: People are getting older and fewer and fewer children are born. Three key data on this: Currently 1.7 million people – 21 percent of the Austrian population – are over 60 years old. In 2030 it will be 2.9 million people – 36 percent, i.e. every third party. But above all, the number of over 80-year-olds will rise massively by 2030, from 290 000 to 600 000 – this is a doubling! One more word, especially on the very young Members: Man tends to see things very static – especially if you are young, you can't imagine that you will be old sometime. It is often seen this way: Here we are, the boys, and there are the old; and now we create the social conditions for how these old ones will live! But it is not meant that we are talking about ourselves – 2030 most of us sitting here will be over 60, and in 2050 we will all be. What we now say here we say about ourselves; and what we lead here we lead in the way for ourselves. It is not so that we are “the boys, ” and somewhere there are“ the old ones, ” but with this we determine our own way of life! This must be noted, even when it comes to saying: We boys don't want to carry these high loads anymore. – Especially the boys now have to make sure that they, then old, get another pension! A complaint that it's too much what you're doing for the old is It is a matter of course of action which calls into question one's own pension provision. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The development of the population is therefore not linear, but dynamic. If only – and this in itself would be very pleasing – life expectancy would rise, it would be quite easy: We might need to adjust a little in lifetime, perhaps also reduce pensions a little – all relatively simple. But the actual ignition is the question of the composition of the population, its structure! This knowledge obviously has not yet become everyone's own, for otherwise it could not come to such simple solutions. Society will change in a massive way when there are fewer and fewer boys and more and more old people! That this has a massive impact on social institutions, everyone has now to recognize – but only at the time when it has become striking. You could have known this 30 years ago: It has always been known that the most powerful birth of the century, namely the year 1940, will go to early retirement in 2000 and will retire regularly in 2005. So you could've known exactly what's going to happen: In 2000, you will have to intervene massively, and if you don't want to do it again in 2005, you have to do something before. These are not predictions or forecasts, but statistical certainty. Nevertheless, this has been ignored so far. Only then, when it became beating did one have to react. A similar lack of responsibility is now evident in many of the conclusions, namely that demographic developments have to follow policy approaches. We are now trying everything, not just one thing, to somehow achieve that the population structure will be rebalanced. It is proposed that productivity should be increased: Good luck with this! In an ageing society, demand is quite another. It is now undisputed that just ageing societies will naturally also carry massively dampened economic growth rates. In fact, this is also easy to understand: The economic location of the elderly, it simply won't exist. It is also expected that unemployment will rise, because there will also be much less dynamic young people who are willing to create jobs. One will have to depend on it, but one will not be able to say that one could compensate for the failure of boys with increased productivity – which will not take place; it has not played out in the last ten years, even though it has always been the case. Or there's the idea: Let us do it, if there are few contributors, fiscally financed! – The tax revenue in particular will, of course, fall dramatically in a population in which more and more people are retired and less in working life. All of these are not solutions, and we should take note of that here. We cannot, just as we have for decades ignored the problem, now, in turn, use wrong solutions for decades, because we like them ideologically very well. There you should already ask yourself how naive and unrealistic a politician may be, that one should not call him irresponsible. The next solution, namely to improve the environment for families in such a way that everyone who wants to have children – I do not say that everyone has to have children! – it can also have this close-up solution we will have to look at. I should also like to point out: The population structure as a whole must be balanced! So that means, for every woman who doesn't want to have a child or has none, another four children must have; for anyone who has only one or only one, another three must have children! This means that the framework conditions must be such that four children's families, three children's families, become normal. But you know what it's like today: From the third child, an official's family falls below the poverty line, with workers' families as early as the second child. Families are the hub of generation solidarity. You can see that when you ask yourself: How are the old people cared for? – 85 percent of the old people are cared for at home. And yet we come to the limit of our financial possibilities! Of course, those who are cared for in the family will be less and less in the future, because many people no longer have any relatives at all. Nevertheless: People want that too! The vast majority of the old people say they want to be cared for in the family. And this is also reasonable: The family is not only the place where children grow up, but it is also the place where the children who then grow up make their old parents do this service because they are connected. I'm just saying something. Immigration will not be able to solve this question, because it is not only about who lives with whom, but also about how these people are connected! It is an immense sense to the immigrants to believe that they, who themselves have old parents, will come up in loving affection for us old ones, and it is also an erroneous idea as to the ability to integrate – I do not know what titanium work You want to think about it, to make sure. Just one example: Due to immigration, Vienna has the youngest population – and Vienna has always “Lainz”! - That's how it looks. There is no way to break down the barriers that confront families with children. There is no way by which we want to preserve our social state, our social security and the identity of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4081	For a preliminary opinion, Mr Mag. Mainly reported. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4099	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The fate of the state depends on the state of its generations. All generations are said to have a safe and free way of life in a secure state. This federal government has set itself the goal. The generations are best reflected in the family. Family means for us: the social cohesion of the generations in an association – whether it be the child or the woman, whether the man, or the generation of seniors and pensioners. The family means protection, social security, social cohesion for all generations, so this federal government has paid particular attention to the family. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Responsible generation policy therefore covers all areas of life: From child care, the social policy milestone of this coalition direction. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions on the use of certain dangerous substances in the motor vehicles sector. In the last three and a half years, we have jointly taken many measures which will give social security and greater security to all generations in our country. We can refer to unique services in the European comparison: I say, ladies and gentlemen, Austria is the European family country of the model class! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have significantly improved the compatibility of family and work with child benefits. We now propose to complement this offer with the right to parental leave. We will also increase the child allowance for multiple births by 1.1.2004. The family allowance was 1st. January 2003 nevertheless significantly increased in all areas. We are also gradually creating an independent pension scheme for women, and we are anchoring the rights of children in the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. All these are important measures that we are implementing as the first in Austria in the leading field of European commonness. The role of Austria in the field of family policy should not be underestimated here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As a woman and then as a generation minister, I have been able to enforce that we have finally been able to implement decisive measures against violence against children, against violence in the media also in the European agenda, and to stop this devastating way of combating violence in our media and against violence against children. We are in favour of greater security in this area, and we will enforce it with all the rigour in this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We do not want a week-long discussion like in Portugal on sexual assaults against children. We want a clear legal regime, we want to protect children from violence and sexual violence. That is the aim of the liberals, that is the objective of the Austrian Federal Government, and we will implement that! We have taken measures against violence in the media, and we will have an eye to the fact that the new leadership in the ORF is also aware that violence in the media is not a bagatelle, but a preparation for violence in society. We will also ensure that the care allowance for children with disabilities introduced by us from birth will be increased not only for children but also for affected people of all generations during this legislative period. We are working on an equal treatment law for the disabled. I should like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen here in Parliament, at last to take into account the situation of disabled people in such a way that they are protected from abuses in the field of research and medicine so that in future we can adopt the Biotechnology Directive in Austria. I can refer you to the outcome of the Ethics Commission of this Federal Government for the disabled in Austria. I urge you to finally implement these results together with us in the Austrian Parliament, because we will have the best security if there is a constitutional majority and implementation. However, there is also a way over the ABGB, but that is only the second best way. We will link up a package of measures for older workers. We have already done it first, for older workers from 1st century onwards. In January 2004, a clear reduction in additional wage and wage costs was achieved. We will also do more in the structural package for the employment of older people, but also for the employment of young people in this society. With the € 1 000 for apprenticeship training, we pay vocational training in the final effect for firms. We have achieved a lot in apprenticeship training. In apprenticeship training, however, we will still have to achieve that there is complete apprenticeship training also through voluntary associations of companies – as is the case in Vorarlberg – so that more apprentices in Austria, involving the dual system and involving apprentice workshops, have a future on the labour market and not a future outside society. We're going down by 1. In a first stage, in January 2004 the taxes: Up to €14 000, there will be no income tax and no more tax benefits from the area of wage tax. A request is being discussed here in Parliament tomorrow, which has dreamed of €10,000 in tax freedom. ==References== January 2004 will implement the law and become reality. The Federal Government is a pioneer in this field, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have, together with the social partners, created the “new deal” in the past legislative period. Previously, only 20 percent of workers had the right to work and they had actually received it. Today, every employee and employee can take the “new” step. This is a milestone in social policy that the black and blue government has adopted together with the social partners. Ladies and gentlemen! You shouldn't be careful of that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have set an emphasis on humanity: With the care hospice, we have not only created the possibility that more than 70 percent of people who want to be cared for at home in difficult situations will be cared for there, but we have also created the co-insurance option for the caring family. Furthermore, we have created an automatic system that makes it possible to obtain a care allowance at least at the care level 3 from the time of the use of the care hospice, so that competent supplementary services can be guaranteed for domestic care from the start. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this federal government has proved that the interests of the people are kept and observed by us in the last stages of life. We have reformed the Austrian pension system. In the Austrian pension system, we will also achieve the harmonisation of the systems. And with the heavy-worker-pension model, we will finally do what we have not experienced in the last five decades, namely, workers, construction workers, who have the same rules as the current hackler rule offers. I think this is important because it is precisely this professional group that, due to physical stress, is no longer in a position to perform those jobs that guarantee stable employment in the labour market in the middle of the fifth and sixth decades of life. This is, therefore, a social state of the future. It has not been possible for the last four decades. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With regard to the debate on pensions, I have carefully considered the model of the Social Democratic Party and the model of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. If I compare the key dates of the pension model of the Federal Government with that, I believe that from the sides of the Federal Government at 40 years of age compared with 45 years of conversion to the model of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, with 1.78 percent increase, with 80 percent benefits from 65. The year of life and the desire to create a pension corridor together with the performance and contribution-oriented account are clear thinkers. The others followed us. Some of our proposals, which were criticised months ago, are today on the table in the form of models which would be worse and more restrictive for people than what the Federal Government has adopted. I think, ladies and gentlemen, we have been confirmed by your models late, but nevertheless, by our critics in the Austrian domestic policy landscape in the implementation of our model in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4277	Federal Minister! The 10 minutes speaking time is over. But you can continue, you have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4293	I would like to conclude by saying: The Austrian Federal Government, the Austrian Parliament and the Austrian public expect that the family as the basic pillar of this state will continue to bear the fundamental considerations of the Austrian Parliament for all generations in the future. We from the Federal Government are willing to implement these considerations.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4320	Thank you very much, Minister of State. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers must not exceed 5 minutes. The first is Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4344	Mr President. Dear representatives of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Good morning! It is the main objective of this government, especially the ÖVP Group, in the interests of young people, in the interests of older people, in the interests of families – the Minister of Social Affairs has already done it – to secure, in a way, the generation agreement in Austria, especially by means of family-friendly measures. It is not to have responded in time to the tipping of the population pyramid and remains the biggest failure of social democracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Who abolished the kindergarten billion? – Not the Social Democrats, they were!]] Over decades, it has been overlooked that the number of births has fallen steadily, that people are getting shorter and shorter in working life and due to early retirement and better medical care – thank God! – can also enjoy retirement for a longer time, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You're destroying the pyramid!]] There is no need to be a social expert to see that there is a need for action here. Everyone understands this today. Unfortunately, only social democracy still does not understand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to remind you once again of the numbers: In 1970, the average entry into working life was 18.5 years, and in 2001 the career was 21 years old. In 1970, average employment lasted 42,7 years, and in 2001 active life fell to 37 years. In 1970, there was an 8.8-year pension, and in 2001 the pension period increased to more than 20 years. From 8.8 years to more than 20 years! Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts to be responded to – and this government has done so in good time. We have succeeded in resolving the failures of the past in economically very difficult times. Our seniors can enjoy secure pensions today. People in working life can rely on and rely on a stable pension system. How great the success is can also easily be seen by a view over the borders. In Germany, failure in fiscal consolidation has led pensioners to fear a real reduction in pensions. That's the truth. Look at Germany, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] According to a current survey, 90 percent of Germans fear that their retirement is no longer safe. In Austria we have made it better, as pension expert University Professor Tomandel has recently noted. He said, among other things: You can even see that we did better in Austria. In Germany, Zickzack has been driven, and in Austria there is now a reform that actually goes into the future. And that's what matters, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This Austrian path also makes it possible for us to create reliefs for the benefit of the people with the first stage of the tax reform. The Minister for Social Affairs has already responded. I am pleased about this tax exemption for an annual income of up to €14 500, especially as a Carinthian Member, because there is a low average income in Carinthia and a high proportion of women who, for example, are employed as unskilled workers in the supply industry. In the end, they will also be relieved. And that's important to me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: Ten years Ambrozy...!]] The tax relief of the profits not collected will be equally good, especially for the small and medium-sized areas in Carinthia. There are very, very many women in business, and tourism will also benefit greatly. These are very important measures, Mr Posch. Even if you do not want to do so, these are very important measures for the Carinthians! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of the day: It's a big concern for me to lead Carinthia out of economic isolation. I also tell you why: above all because we have to make economic use of opportunities through the new situation, through the opening up to Slovenia. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Posch.]] This is especially in the interest of young people, for whom we need to create future prospects in Carinthia, for which we need additional securely qualified jobs. Carinthia will lose the population by percentage. So we need the young people in Carinthia and we have to do everything we can to stay in Carinthia and have future prospects there. You have to feel that they can reach something in Carinthia. Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP stands for a prudent, the ÖVP stands for a generation of binding and the ÖVP also stands for a sustainable policy in which man is at the centre. That's the most important thing for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4458	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4476	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister, if you hear you present the great successes of the Freedom Party in the government today, you will inevitably feel reminded of the little boys who are walking through the forest with fear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! This is not really surprising, either, if you look at the results of your party's elections in recent months, in recent weeks, and the various government crises – as are the current ones. Then, of course, you try to represent what is to be presented. I think, however, that everyone who has listened to you has realized that there is little to present. And I want to address the few. If you listen to you like this when you talk about your own policy, you feel that you are really losing the ground under your feet. They're talking about the "Familiespatternland Österreich". – Yes “Wonderful”: We are with absolute final lights, for example with regard to childcare facilities! [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] And there's nothing more to be ashamed of when you ask: Why do young people not have children? – You need to change something about the environment, then something will change! Parliament's regret is of no use at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the last National Council meeting, we discussed the microcensus investigation presented by Mrs Haubner. 90,000 childcare places are missing in Austria! [[Abg. May. Molterer: I only say Vienna, unemployment in Vienna!]] I said at the time that it was good that there was at least consensus on this lack. Then organize a child care summit, and at one time only 50 000 will be out of the 90 000 places that the Secretary of State has established. So there's not even consensus about that. And there is not the slightest trace of any measure that would change. Nothing, just a giant theatre donner, no action! It is a pity for the time being, especially the time when nothing happens again, in which childcare places and therefore better conditions could be created. That would make more sense than it would be. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Mandak.]] The next huge theater donor was the right to part-time work. – Wonderful, we have been talking about this for a long time. That would be a very important measure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Two days later it turns out: a pure flower, a measure that only a quarter of those they need can take advantage of. It's pure planting, what you're doing here! [[Abg. Grossruck: Talk about Lainz!]] They want to show that you are doing something, but the people come up with it if they want to take advantage of it, that it is of no use to them at all. There's no help from you, nothing, just bluff and deception! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There's so much to do with child money! The model of child money could be wonderfully improved without that it would cost a lot if people could make tailor-made models. [[Abg. Ellmauer: A sensory change!]] But they don't want to. Why not? – That would cost you nothing, that would be a sensible measure and would help! [[Abg. May. Molterer: But you have rejected it! You said no!]] Next point. Why are there no more child families? – I would like to tell you something very interesting [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer]] I read a study in which women are asked why they don't have a second child. One of the very essential points in this is the father's behavior after the first child is there. A call to you, a call to us is: In this context, we should be more concerned with the role of fathers, because in recent decades, women's lives have changed quite a lot, but men's lives have almost nothing at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens]] Most men today still live the same way as their grandfathers. We should consider how we can support those men who want to live differently who want to support their wives and how we can take the appropriate measures. Let's come to the old people in our society! This is a very important issue. We have heard a very superficial description of the demographic development of the colleague Rosenkranz, since there are still many important things to say. [[Abg. Grossruck: Talk about Lainz! The SPÖ shows how it works in Lainz!]] If you represent the pension reform as a success, I find it extremely surprising because you really intervened and cut down the smallest pensions. [[Abg. Scheibner: This shows up at Lainz!]] When I think that half of the female pensioners in Austria are 50 € – 50 €! – Living above the poverty line, I have to say that this is a measure that I would not be successful. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Chief.]] But you are right, we should not only talk about where we will live in old age, but also about how, and there would be a lot to say about that. There would be a lot of reforms needed, and in Vienna there are already excellent model projects in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4651	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4669	Mr President. High house! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Sozialminister! Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kuntzl! You cannot pretend here that you do not know who is responsible for childcare in the countries. This is your social democratic mayor Häupl as the head of state of the city of Vienna! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You can't do that here, either – I know: children's money that you don't want – once again is bad. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I can tell you this in that you want to distract from Lainz, of course. They want to distract from Lainz, from the care scandal of social-democratic politicians over many years. For me, this is really an example of the failure of socialist care policy, socialist social policy and an example of cover-up and the economy of friends. That's what you're told! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But now on the topic “Austria rich in generations” that we have chosen. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Pittermann should have gone for a long time!]] The topic of the current hour was chosen by us to document on the one hand the interaction of the generations in Austria and on the other hand to present our targeted policy, which is associated with it. Mr Sozialminister Herbert Haupt has already explained a lot. For us, the co-existence of generations, children, youth, parents and grandparents means to maintain the family as the highest good, as a value for protection, and to give us child security, nest heat. But it also means giving young people a hold on and allowing time and conflict solutions. And it is also for us liberals to pay respect and thanks to the older generation, namely thanks for the reconstruction. I come from a generation whose grandparents and parents were still involved in the reconstruction, and I have often heard the comment: Our children should have it better once! Behind this statement is a renunciation, a relinquishing of the older generation. And now is the time for the now rowing generation to be worthy of this older generation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why the deepest freedom of thought and action of all our social politicians and family politicians – and that is enough, as we have heard, also in the field of justice and economics – is aimed at promoting the interaction of families, generations and protecting families. This begins with support measures in the business sector for family businesses, for small businesses, and goes over the right to part-time, which we will soon decide on, through the free movement of students and apprentices, which was introduced under Herbert Haupt in Austria, up to the increase in the compensation allowance and the tax exemption of all incomes up to €14 500 a year from €1. January. This is also true of the older generation, because more than 730 000 pensioners and 350 000 single parents are affected. This is also a quantum leap in tax policy. This is the first step towards reducing lower incomes. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am therefore surprised that the Socialist Group voted against this decision, but we will still publish it. It has also voted against the abolition of ambulance charges, which is also said here. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: such a nonsense!]] A milestone in family policy – I will mention it again – is and remains the child money. I remind you: The child's money has taken its exit in Carinthia. I remember that when the Carinthian head of state presented the child money, unisono, was almost reflective to hear: poorly financeable, women back to the stove, electoral gag by Jörg Haider. You know the path of child benefit: It began in Carinthia as a pilot project and was then introduced throughout Carinthia and finally – due to the government participation of the liberals who have made the introduction of child money a condition for government participation – throughout Austria. There are already parallels, namely as regards the care check. I have to smile: With our State Secretary Ursula Haubner, the Kärntner Landeshuptmann presents the new care check in order to finally provide a service to the caring family to make it easier to get older at home so that Lainz never happens. If Jörg Haider Landeshuptmann were in Vienna, the care check would be introduced and the care policy in Vienna would be different from under Häupl, I can tell you that.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4765	That was your final point, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4781	I come to my conclusion: You will wonder, the care check will also take Carinthia from his way across Austria, and he will not be preventable.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4808	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4826	Mr President. High house! Dear political enthusiasts! “Generation-rich Austria” – I do not know how it happened to you with this term. The first thing I thought of was the Federal anthem. I went through them in the spirit: Although it is the “many loved Austria”, the “many tested Austria” and the “many famous Austria”, it is not Austria’s rich in generations. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now you have at least understood this comparison!]] The second idea that has come to my mind was whether the FPÖ wants to deal with the issue, how many generations of ministers, how many generations of party chairmen and vice-channers have already used it in almost four years of government activity. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not your problem!]] But it was clear to me, Mr Scheibner, that there are more important things in the case of God in Austria than always to deal with your crushing FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Finally start with the theme, you only have 5 minutes!]] You'd like to distract from it, I understand. [[Abg. Scheibner: We would like to hear what you have to say to the generations, to the youth, to the seniors! You don't think so!]] I mean, it's still enough time, and if you listen, you'll also hear what it's all about in generations. What does the government do for the generations? – Mr Sozialminister Haupt has previously demonstrated the importance of the government, for example, the people with disabilities, and has explained very gruelingly how he works for them. The reality is: In the last seven years, you have not increased the care allowance for exactly these disabled people by a cent! That means people have to get out with less and less money. – This is your policy for people with disabilities! This is the difference between what you say and what you actually do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What else does the government do for the generations? – She complains primarily that there are too few children; we have heard that again today. Mrs Gehrer makes it easiest, because she is the responsibility of young adults and says: Don't be so party addicts, but get kids! to ask instead: Why are there fewer children in Austria, and why there are fewer and fewer couples who say: Yeah, we want kids!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr Kuntzl mentioned it earlier: There are 48,000 children in Austria who need a care room whose parents are urgently waiting for an opportunity to give their child into a group of children, into a kindergarten, into a student care. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are another 42 000 who would need more support. It is ridiculous to make the accusation of Vienna, nothing is happening here, because the situation in the relationship is still good. Look You're looking at the other federal states, there it's catastrophic! – And then a summit will be convened, and there is no other result than that one has to make another investigation. Check out, raise – that's all right – but create childcare places in Austria immediately! 48 000 children urgently need such a one, and that will probably be enough for you to take immediate action. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What does the training in Austria look like for the young generation? – In the field of education, you are currently investing less than before than the governments had done before. They say again and again: We are investing more anyway. – The Greens, especially Alexander Van der Bellen, told the Minister of Finance that it was less, and it was so that the Minister of Finance had once again settled. Investment in de facto You're less educated than before! – That’s how it looks with your big announcement policy, with which you promise more education for the youth. I'll tell you one thing: I'm angry every time I have to pay the tuition fee for my daughters at the beginning of the semester. I'm privileged, I can afford it with my salary. But nevertheless: 1 450 € a year to pay for not even entering the hall, for having working groups with 120 students, is a cleaner, really true!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4938	Mrs. Colleague! In fact, we do not use the word “saury ” at this speaker’s desk!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4953	I'll take it back. I just always think so I've quoted my thoughts because I can't help myself.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4978	The thoughts are free.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5004	Thank you. – Your last point: the pension reform. On the one hand, you always talk about the family, but punish with your pension reform They're all those who work for the family who work for the family, and these are the women. They have clearly taken steps to ensure that women can look even more through their fingers and have even less pension. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] It's ringing. – Mr Scheibner, you see, 5 minutes are too short in spite of speedy speech speed to put all that on your mind, what you are doing wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5044	The next speaker is the youngest father of this House, Mr Amon. 5 minutes speaking time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5068	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The biggest problem we have in connection with the debate on the generations – Mr Mandak's remarks have shown this, but in a much more impressive way that of Mrs Kuntzl – is the refusal of reality in the area of red and green. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The facts are quite clear, ladies and gentlemen: The average life expectancy has increased by more than eight years over the last 30 years. Births in Austria have fallen sharply over the long period of time. While there were 1.2 million children under the age of ten in 1971, the number of children under the age of 10 in 2041 will be almost half lower. At the same time, however, the number of older people in our population is increasing. While 1.7 million people over 60 years of age were still present in 2001, 2.8 million people in 2041 will become 2.8 million people! – be over 60 years old, and this means an increase in the older population by more than 70 percent. Those who still believe that no measures are necessary to ensure social balance between generations, are responsible for refusing reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Kuntzl! They criticize the Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] It would be better for you, Mr Jarolim, to look closely at the figures in Vienna. They criticise the problem of youth unemployment. I'll tell you one thing: Every second job seeker in this country is in Vienna because your politics in Vienna with an absolute SPÖ majority is simply wrong, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the SPÖ:Because every fourth worker...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] While the unemployment rate in Vienna has increased by 8 percent, ladies and gentlemen, it has fallen by 8 percent in Upper Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Take note of this! You can't ignore these numbers that are documented and prove that your policy is wrong. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The situation regarding gender balance has a lasting impact not only on the pension system, but also, of course, on other areas affected by this situation, namely the health system, the economic and labour world, the care sector and, of course, also on education policy. You can criticize our actions, but do you have better, do you have other measures? They criticise, for example, that the Federal Government has decided to introduce a right to part-time for parents. They criticize that it would not be sufficient for us to introduce this right to part-time for parents working in businesses with more than 20 employees. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this is an important first step, but it is an answer to the problems of time – an answer you do not give! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] They criticise measures in the pension reform and have nothing to offer in this context. A brief look over the border shows what a Social Democratic Federal Government has to offer in connection with the pension reform. First: Pensions will not be increased for 2004. Secondly, All pensioners must pay full contributions to care insurance. Thirdly, 2 billion € reduction of the Federal grant for pension insurance. Fourth, higher payments of insured patients in health insurance. Fifth, you open a bottle The payment date for pensions will be moved from the beginning of the month to the end of the month. And sixthly, there is a 50% reduction in Christmas money in pensions. – This is how social democratic responses look forward to the situation of the generations and in the field of pensions! Ladies and gentlemen! There are the answers of this Federal Government clearly the better!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5154	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5172	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Amon, as a social-democratic child and youth speaker, I can give up on these answers, because these are not answers, but what you have now outlined is far from reality! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You don't want to hear the truth!]] When I consider that every fourth job is located in Vienna, I have to say that what you have just delivered is more than unscrupulous. – That was just said for the introduction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In general, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to address the statement by Mr Bundesminister Head of State regarding generations, because all the other statements were undisputable and undisputable. The Federal Minister said: The state of the generations is important for a society. Now I'm wondering, How do you look at these generations? How much are these generations worth? What are you doing, Mr Scheibner, for the generations who live in Austria? [[Abg. Scheibner: More than in Vienna!]] Do you know what you're doing, Mr. Scheibner? – They pay 240 000 unemployed in Austria. That's worth it to you, 240 000 unemployed? – Not us, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Take a look at this! What have you done for the families, what have you done for the elderly people? - Nothing you've done!]] The Federal Chancellor announced yesterday in the “ZiB 2” that there will be the next economic package in mid-November. If this takes the same way as the last economic package, I say: Good night, Austria! – There has no longer been a single apprenticeship, and from month to month, the number of job seekers is rising instead of falling. Mr Scheibner. Explain You've brought me what the economic recovery package has brought! [[Abg. Scheibner: Economic growth... saved, the economic package!]] Well, I'm curious when you come to speak. You also call unemployment, Mrs Bleckmann, a mistake in beauty. We don't. But that is typical of your neoliberal policy. Do you know what neoliberal policy is? – To take care of people and their fates. [[Abg. Scheibner: I'll explain that to you!]] This is your policy that you have been running since the year 2000! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The boys are very much left out. For example, I just remember the non-invitation of young people to the Austrian Convention. An own youth convention took place – with very mature, very great decisions. I would like to congratulate the Austrian Federal Youth Office from this point of view. Maybe you'll take the ideas seriously. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They also take care of the generation of Austrian apprentices, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bundesminister Haupt mentioned the 1 000 € apprenticeship premium. But it can't be that this has taken hold if a total of 15,000 young people are looking for an apprenticeship and if it gets more each month. They're also cluttering the generation of young mothers, you're very specific about them; I'm going to prove to you why. One can not only talk about the compatibility of work and family, but also about measures that make it possible to reconcile work and family. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then why were you against the child care allowance? Why were you against it? They were against it!]] Children's money alone doesn't make it possible. Col. Amon, you're a father, I don't know if the child is also a child's anti-carrier for you as for so many fathers – because still under 2% men go in father's care. [[Abg. Neugebauer: He's doing something for the generation contract!]] Maybe you're going to Karenz, that wouldn't be bad. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Austrian Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, does not want to support the generation agreement. The message means: In countries where enough childcare facilities have been created, the generation contract will be fulfilled in so far as more children will be born again; in France, Sweden, to mention only two examples. You could have saved the child care summit if the result was only: I do not feel responsible as an alliance, countries and communities, if you want to, then pay for the childcare facilities, but I do not take this responsibility! – This is not my understanding of politics, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The generation of workers in this country is also seriously neglected by the Federal Government. It doesn't matter if you're single, whether you have a family, it's the fact that the working people in Austria are getting nothing through the taxes and taxes that you've achieved the highest level for many years. [[Federal Minister Mag. Main: We are where we were with you in 1998!]] Where are the reforms that benefit precisely these groups of people? Services of the state have been scraped back and not increased – and yet Mr. Grasser is making more and more debts. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't talk very loud when you make debt!]] So we have to ask ourselves slowly where the money came from. Perhaps you can tell me, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer. Of course, it is also about the generation of structures, about the older Austrians, about the pensioners. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, continue to appreciate and support all generations, I can only call your policy poor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5360	The next speaker is Mr Lichtenegger. He too speaks for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5388	Mr President. Representatives of the Government! High house! Dear spectators at home! We can very well rely on our flags that we make policy for youth and thus also policy for the future. We have been committed to reducing the electoral age – this was implemented last month, and the electoral age has been reduced. This means more participation for young people. The word “youth unemployment” has been used. We in Carinthia were able to reach an employment boom. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: But this is the biggest fairy tale at all!]] We have 6 500 training places. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Bravo!]] Mrs Colleagues, once you come to Carinthia – to Spittal, where you are not so much loved; You stay better in Vienna – you will see how this is in Carinthia. We have also launched an offensive in Carinthia, through which there are 10,000 new jobs. [[Abg. Oil: Where?]] The word “afternoon care ” has also been used. We work for an optional afternoon care. This means, of course, that teachers must be there longer. Therefore, we demand that the service law be changed in the direction that there are higher entry salaries and then flatten the curve. We are also committed to the absence of Pragmatisation in this area, because we want our young people to be sent to a working world where there are no benefits, no privileges and no special rights – all young people should have the same rights in the working world. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ: You must tell the woman Gehrer!]] The issue of childcare facilities has also been addressed. It's the Wiener problem that they think it's out of the Semmering. They mean it's everywhere like in Vienna, where red rules. But the majority of childcare places are missing in Vienna, you have to say that too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] I don't understand why you want to assure the people, especially the young people, about why you're on strike, going on the road and showing our boys that this is a way to operate democracy. – It may be a possibility, but in my opinion it is a bad one. We have secured pensions, and my generation can be grateful for it because it also wants to have a future with secure pensions. We want the state to continue paying pensions for us – perhaps a little less, but still for that. We know that it has become more difficult since we joined the EU. We liberals were the only ones who pointed out at the time that not everything is just good and beautiful, that you also have to be very critical of the EU. You don't need to shake your head, it's really like that. Although we have more prospects for our young people, it is more difficult for them, they need to show more self-initiative. And our task is to offer young people prospects. I think it works within a good framework. However, this new world for our young people also means that they have to take up the matter themselves and learn that it is becoming more difficult in our working world. Before joining the EU, almost everyone said: Well, if the EU comes, then all the problems are gone, everything is getting cheaper, everything is centrally controlled, everyone has the opportunity to work!, we were the only ones who have pointed out these problems. [[Abg. Ollinger: These are mystiques of what you are spreading there!]] At the time, you all said: See how EU-critical those of the FPÖ are, they don't want that! Our young people – I was involved in some projects in Carinthia – are very interested in shaping our future. We had a student project in Carinthia, which was about shaping Carinthia's future. There have been 200 projects from school classes, we then awarded them, and there have been some interesting proposals. We can all get to the nose, because we could offer more opportunities to young people, because there is, for their part, the willingness and the interest to take part. We're trying to get the best we can. I don't think it's a responsible policy – with all friendship inside here – if you do anything bad when you go on the street and tell people that everything that is done is bad. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Who's going on the street? Who's on the road again?]] We strive, and you did well to present concepts and say: On one point, you're right, but we'd like to do that! – To do everything bad is not a good policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5506	As the last speaker, Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Five minutes, Mrs. Colleague. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5525	Mr President. High house! My previous speaker has summarized in a sentence anoquent, which is what characterizes this federal government, namely to make everything bad! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Nor does it help to conjure up Austria rich in generations in beautiful speeches. I can only hold on to the edge as a detail: At least this generation wealth is not reflected in this house. [[Abg. May. Molterer: In the ÖVP Group already!]] It is almost strange for the first speaker, Mrs Rosenkranz, to have a kind of “precautionary egoism” and to ask us, we may be here to make sure that the fate of the old people is well assured, because that will make all of us hurry. – If this is your access to youth and generation policy, thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You didn't understand anything again! As always!]] It also seems strange to me when it is demanded that the generation of construction be honoured – decent pensions, especially for the women of the generation, but there is no such thing. I would rather have a good pension than this appeal to honour as a woman. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Don't you like honor?]] – At the account I prefer “Euros” rather than “Honor”. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Honor is also something important, not only euro!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Since when are the greens so materialistic?]] You really have to look at what is being made in reality by what is so grandly proclaimed here, all across all generations: Recent generation lacks childcare, lack of afternoon care, lack of equal opportunities for children and young people of different social groups and different sexes. For the very old people, there are some really devastating maladies in the care, in the provision of living. And for all generations in between, there are the savings packages of the government, which include something for everyone, namely cuts. It is also significant what generation wealth offers quite specific differences for men and women. We have a generation of women who are still half equal in education, but it would also be new to me that education actually promotes the independence of girls and women as much that the teaching content actually corresponds to the real distributions of gender roles. Young women between 20 and 40 years of age have to deal with the common problems of the lack of childcare, the lack of mobility, especially in the country, of the lack of employment opportunities. They earn less than the same old men, but have a double and triple load to bear. And what are you doing in this situation, which is well known? – You appeal, for example, to a Tyrolean colleague from you, to the neighborhood aid, where there is a lack of childcare facilities. They explain – as did the previous speaker – freedom of choice as the principle of offer, but the freedom of choice between nothing and nothing is unfortunately not a great help! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The 40- to 60-year-old women – this is a very strange phenomenon – are almost moved to “old iron”. As a 45-year-old woman, try to find a job and be taught by the labour market service – hard to mediate! After you first had reduced opportunities in the labour market, as women could have children to care for, you later have no chances because you are just too old from 40 onwards. That's very precarious. However, one still serves as a woman to care for grandchildren and parents – this has been raised today to the great social achievement of the government. People are told that you care for your family members yourself, because the state does not have much to offer, we intend to raise private care and care to the highest principle. – And that is, in reality, to demand free women’s work much more from state because of it. – Thank you, we do not need this generation policy! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition! Please don't tell me that there is perfect life outside of Lainz in dignity, self-determination and freedom for old people in nursing homes. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion: Not only does it need a balance – not a rhetorical, but a real balance – of interests between generations, but also one within generations and between men and women.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5645	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5666	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5872	I also announce that the Fourth Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to all members of the National Council. The following templates have also been received: Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT) as amended by amendment of 26. of June 2001 (218 of the Supplements) and Convention on the Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of the Sea of 10 January 1970. December 1982 on the conservation and management of cross-border fish stocks and large-scale fish stocks – Declarations (223 of the Supplements). After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning these items to a committee and to take them into account when drawing up the agendas of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there any objection? – This is apparently not the case. That is why we are doing so. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5911	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 913/J by Dr Peter Pilz, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning “shares, trustees and constitutional break”. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 711/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5936	I would also like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 711/AB to Mr Schasching's question 697/J, colleagues with regard to school forms in Austria all day by the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5957	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 and 2, 3 and 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. That is why we are doing so. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5978	Let's go into the agenda. In the Presidential Conference, consensus was reached on the duration and shape of the debates: Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times for the political groups arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 140 minutes, Free 96 minutes, Green 104 minutes. The following term of office was also agreed on for the debates between the time until 2.50 p.m., which were carried over by the ORF: Declaration by the Federal Chancellor with 20 minutes as well as an explanation by the Vice-Cancellor with 20 minutes, then one by one A statement of words by each group of 15 minutes each, then a speech by every group of 10 minutes, then one word per group of 5 minutes each, with the president taking care of the fact that the last round is coming evenly. There is also the intention of interrupting the meeting from 1 p.m. to 1/15 p.m. As a result, each political group will have a speech with 5 minutes each, then a member of the government with 7 minutes, then a speaker with 5 minutes each, a speech by a member of the government with 7 minutes, then a speech per group with 4 minutes, then a speech by a member of the government with 7 minutes, and finally one word per group with 4 minutes. The speaking time remaining before the last round of speakers is fairly distributed. Furthermore, there is agreement that actual corrections will only be called after 2.50 p.m., but not longer than 3 p.m. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Chancellor pursuant to § 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the appointment of Federal Minister Hubert Gorbachzum Vice-Chancellor 2. Point Declaration by the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6049	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement. 20 minutes. – Mr Bundeskanzler, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6070	Mr President. High house! I may propose to you a change in the Federal Government Hubert Gorbach takes over from Herbert Haupt the responsibility as Vice chancellor of the Republic of Austria. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] The government team and women will otherwise remain unchanged. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a word of thanks to Herbert Haupt at this point. Of course, he remains a Minister of Social Affairs. After all, in difficult times he took over the Freedom Party as a party observer, and of course he remains. [[Renewal ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In a very interesting and stressful time, he has taken over the whole question of work in pension reform, in social policy, and he has held the office of Vice-Chancellor since this Federal Government was incarcerated. I can only say: I've been very happy to work with Herbert Haupt. We have also understood ourselves well and, I believe, have continued a lot in the first six or seven months. – A great thank you for its performance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Hubert Gorbach is relatively new to our team, but he is a long-standing government pro. I remember: We were jointly responsible for infrastructure tasks – I am a Federal Minister of Economic Affairs, he is in Vorarlberg. Since February, he has been the Minister for Infrastructure and thus responsible for the most important tasks of the future, namely for infrastructure and research in Austria, and he has done so with great expertise, with toughness and also with a huge European commitment. What he brings in – and this is to be held here, I believe, also important – are sobriety, alemannic dryness and care, openness and conscientiousness in his work, experience and joy of use. – I wish him all the best for his work in the coming years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: At the year en I would not be so sure!]] Allow me also an open personal word: Of course, it is not that easy to work with three very different personalities – first Susanne Riess-Passer, then Herbert Haupt and now Hubert Gorbach – within three years. But I said it yesterday: Only those who change will remain faithful! Everyone has to use this motto for themselves, and I'm trying to do it. I will try to be as good a partner as possible, and I expect this of course also from the team members in the Austrian Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen! We all need the joy and, above all, the momentum that Hubert Gorbach already radiated yesterday and yesterday, and he also gives us the security to work together well in the coming years according to our motto “With all the strength for Austria”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Indeed, the scope of the first seven months' work was enormous. If you're just thinking about it, We've made a double budget! And if you're a little – a little! – try to be objective and look at the comparisons of other European countries, then you will insist that Austria has not made its case so bad. We now have a balanced budget for two years – 2001 and 2002 – and we have more economic growth than all other countries that have partly excessive deficits. Four European countries are currently in breach of the Stability Pact. All these countries have deficits over 3 percent and much less economic growth than Austria. That means we have proved in a difficult time – I don't want to negate the problems at all or speak beautifully, no! – we have managed to keep fiscal policy and stability balance in a difficult time, but still keep growth impulses and thus ensure a considerable number of jobs in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are on the road to European politics in these years. If you look at the average figures of the euro area, you will notice that last year we had half a percent more economic growth than the euro zone and will grow more strongly than the euro zone, according to all human prospects. I therefore believe that we can say with fug and right that this course is justified – in the face of all difficulty. The expenditure ratio in Austria has also fallen significantly in recent years. In 1999, we had an expenditure rate of more than 54 percent, as measured by gross domestic product, and we reduced it by 3 percentage points. This shows that the total recovery has actually been achieved on the expenditure side, and this is important because the tax and tax burden in Austria is relatively high. Nevertheless, at this time we have set accents: We spend €9 billion for education next year, €2.5 billion for infrastructure, about €5 billion for families. And I believe that we should also point out that the discharge of taxpayers and citizens is now beginning, in a massive way: ==References== In January, all taxpayers who earn less than €14 500 – and this is totaled at least almost 2.5 million Austrians – will not pay any more taxes at all. 200 000 farms are taxed on a massive basis, because only half the average tax rate has to be paid for the untapped profit, i.e. for the money remaining in the holding; The VAT month is not applicable. With this, we have a discharge of around 1 billion € with the economic programmes from January on. That is, the tax reduction, the discharge begins. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the basis of the tax rate you have repeatedly criticized, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you can also see very clearly this development: Yes, we had a relatively high tax rate in 2001 at 45.4 percent. In the meantime, we are already almost 2% below and are already below the values of 1997, 1998 and 1999. This means that both the expenditure ratio and the revenue ratio have fallen, and we are actually in a more favourable position than in the time when we took over responsibility in the Federal Government in 2000. In addition, two economic packages that have proved to have brought us half a quarter more economic growth – evidenced by the Economic Research Institute. In Austria, we have the lowest inflation rate in Europe. We were the export winners in Europe last year and we had a trade surplus for the first time. Again: no anthems, but a realistic view of what is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Politics lives on two things: stability and change. Policy also needs to be changed, because of course we are faced with many changing conditions. It is as the German economic researchers publicly said yesterday: It also needs the stability and predictability of a course. And we live in Austria. We have implemented pension reform more quickly and earlier – I believe – than other countries, such as Italy, Germany, France. And if you look at what is being discussed or already implemented around us today, it will be recognized that Austria has also chosen a reasonable way in this area. In Germany, the red-green government is now thinking out loud about raising the retirement age to 67 years. The pensioners in Germany will probably not receive a pension at all next year. I am proud – I say this openly – that in Austria we have managed to prevent similar things by means of a timely pension insurance reform. – Herbert Haupt is here in front of the curtain, for he was and is the responsible social minister and minister of generations in the truest sense of this word, who enforced it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If the retirement age in Italy is now to be increased by five years, at a relatively rapid pace, I must say again: We have just started in time – in the year 2000 – and we will have achieved this goal in 2017, with a long perspective of an entire generation. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this path can be highly criticised, but it is responsible. And I do not want to publicly represent with all my heart and with all my strength the accuracy of this course, because I am convinced that this serves and benefits the best of generational security and justice, the fairness of the social contract. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Also, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a word about Europe after we had a very important European Council last weekend. Those who want to play a role in the new Europe, in the enlarged Europe – politically, economically, culturally – must deal with developments in this region. First of all, there is the enlargement that will take place in 28 weeks. – I have always been an absolute, convinced follower of the need for this reunification of Europe, and I believe that so far all economic data, all the experience of this expectation of many of us, have been confirmed. On the other hand, however, we have to be equally critical and self-critical in mind that there will not only be winners, because we see quite clearly that competition will become harder, that we need to make more effort that it is not enough to rest on the laurels of yesterday or on the proven status quo yesterday. Let's look at the situation around us! Hubert Gorbach has rightly pointed out that we have to do a permanent monitoring here: What about the tax rates, with the framework conditions around us? so that in Austria we can make the most of the advantages of the location in the heart of Europe. That is why we will set up such a permanent working group that will make this assessment and, of course, we will respond to it. This will be necessary if we want to make optimum use of the opportunities of enlargement for our workers, for entrepreneurs, for farmers, for all professional groups. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore, taking advantage of these opportunities is the real topic of the next months and years, and there are a whole series of exciting possibilities and instruments. In this context, let me remind you, for example, of the Structural Funds, of the European Union's regional support: The Union offers us 6,6 billion € in money for structural reforms for the years 2000 to 2006, of which about 1.2 billion are directly from the EU budgets. And there will be €7 billion for the so-called rural area. These are even 3.2 billion from the Brussels pots. What I noticed: We have not yet exhausted over 50 percent of the projects, of which I believe about € 1 to € 1.5 billion can be used for the border regions. And this is a common task for ministers, for Sepp Pröll, for example, or Martin Bartenstein especially and priority, but of course also for interplay with the local authorities. And we will be careful to ensure that this European opportunity is optimally used for structural renewal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another area is the infrastructure and research sector, something for which the new Vice-Cancellor in particular will be responsible. It has implemented – and this is a very great success that has not been clear from the very beginning – that the European Union – proposal from the Commission – now proposes 29 concrete trans-European network projects, with a volume of €220 billion, of which six projects for us, with a volume of, carefully estimated, €15 billion – for Austria alone! If you put it into practice and break down on the experience that every citizen of course is interested in, then it comes out that we can use 1,600 kilometres of road, 2 500 kilometres of rail, together with 4,000 kilometres of infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! We will work together, and we will need to provide optimum support to our infrastructure ministers and vice-presidents so that we can really implement this historic opportunity of the instrument of TENs, research and regional policy. Another thing: We have, of course, discussed the question of the project of the European Constitution in addition to the growth initiative which the Commission has prepared and which is now being supplemented by 25 national economic recovery programmes on Austrian initiative. Of course, it is far too early to mention results here, but after we have dealt intensively with the question in the relevant European Committee, I would like to present an interim report here, when I say that I am quite optimistic that some very important concerns that connect us all are at least in tangible proximity. It will be difficult to comply with the timetable and substance by December, but I do believe that in the question of the institutions, for example, there will probably be a elected President of the European Council, but he will be accompanied by a rotating team presidency, something that our Foreign Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner has already discussed very early and which is gaining more and more European supporters. And it will also be true that this President of the European Council is not a competition to the President of the Commission or will have even a superior Presidency function, a spokesman for the whole of the Union, but will be a President – no more and no less – for the European Council. The European Foreign Minister is taking shape. More and more countries are joining this consensus. Is the question, rather than the Council, or rather the Commission, with what parliamentary powers and control rights? This will still be strongly debated, but in principle this idea stands. And so is the question of the Commission, where there is agreement on our model, namely: Each Member State shall be entitled to appoint a member of the Commission, who shall then act as a European representative, with a seat and a vote, although not fully competent, but with tasks in the Commission. I would say that, almost as an intermediate, we have brought about 15,16 countries to our “Camp”, but still about a third of the member countries are skeptical of this idea. What was interesting was the security discussion, something that we also discussed in the Committee, where we were very concerned that a smaller closed club could arise here, which would not be open to all the Member States of the Union and which would perhaps not be based on the will of all. After the first discussion, there is, after all, the willingness of the real inventors of this idea, that it should be an open model for everyone to join at any time, and that it should be a European model, based on the objectives of peace of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in the European perspective a number of things have come into motion. Hubert Gorbach and I carried out the following tasks for the autumn: We are already starting next Monday with a major health conference, a reform dialogue involving all the parties of the House, all the social partners, all the federal states. The harmonisation of pension reform will be submitted to the House by the end of the year. We will work in mid-November on a business programme, which we will then also present to you in mid-November. A research initiative gains shape. The ÖBB reform is currently under negotiation, and the tax reform is being prepared from December to mid-January to present it to you. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The work programme is certainly demanding. Yes, we have to tackle a lot of things, which is uncorrected so no longer durable! I admit, reforms are not always convenient. They're painful sometimes, they're inconvenient. But we have not taken action to cling to the past, we want and need to work for the future, to ensure sustainable security of our opportunities, for greater justice between generations, for future-proof educational opportunities, for jobs in powerful businesses, for a sustainable balance between immigration and the needs and desires of the local population and for a good place in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! I beg you, I'll invite you: Accompaniment You need these necessary reforms! Check our suggestions, criticize or supplement, but do not refuse! Let us make these reforms together, step by step – comprehensible, transparent, understandable to the public. – The Federal Government will work with new momentum and full strength for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6250	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: For his pudding hour! A hearty pudding hour!]] I now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor. Your speaking time is also 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6278	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Honourable Members! Watchers and listeners who are there live on TV! Ladies and gentlemen at the Intergovernmental Bank! As early as 2000, our liberals decided with courageous ideas and reform zeal to take over government responsibility. In 2003, we again agreed with the Austrian People's Party on a government programme, and we are now implementing it together. I myself was a member of the negotiation team at the first and the second time and can therefore say with fug and right – because I knew it – that we were able to negotiate with many free ideas, a lot of freedom policy in this government programme, with it. And I am still sure, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a government programme that creates excellent framework conditions for this country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Framework conditions so that we can expand and secure our economic location, framework conditions so that we can not only assert ourselves in international competition, but also better in future, framework conditions so that we can secure our and also our children's pensions so that we can help young people to implement their life models, whether it be with good education – this is also a focus of this government work – whether with support for families – that has always been an important concern to us liberals and also this Federal Government – or by creating, not only conservation, but creation, new, attractive, forward-looking jobs, framework conditions so that we can live safely in this country, and framework conditions that health care is not at risk. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Where?]] Short: This reform programme is a guarantee of a sustainable high quality of life for Austrians, especially for a good future in our country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe in this model of bourgeois government, I have always done so. It has already been said by the Federal Chancellor that I was in a state government ten years earlier, also in a bourgeois cooperation, and it has already been mentioned today that one must also allow a look over national borders. And if I take a look at neighboring Germany, where red-green is known to be at work, this convinces me even more that I was always right with the statement: A bourgeois cooperation is the best for the country today and especially tomorrow. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of course, we are not all happy about what it looks like in the neighbouring country, but it is a political reality that there is an interest-rate chaos there, that there is a record-new debt of €42 billion debated, that social-political reality will pass over there and that we can see a low point in German social policy. This is political reality! Ladies and gentlemen, believe us that we have taken the right path! I know, of course, that I have a lot to do in my resort right now, because there are mistakes from the last decades. I am not showing my finger at any political party, but the responsibility of the last decades is clear. There is much to do, and I will also be happy to fight at European level – just as I have been in the first eight months of my time in the Federal Government – and I will fight hard, for example, to achieve an extension of the transit agreement. This will still be very important for us Austrians, not only because today Tyrol has the big problems, but also because we have to take into account that through the opening of the East, a lot will happen especially in the east of Austria. If you know that the forecasts for 2015 show an increase in the area of trucks of about 70 percent and in the area of passenger cars of around 30 percent, it is clear that you have everything to do to protect the population from these loads, from these mobility addicts. That is why it will be important, first of all, to extend the transit agreement – that is why I am fighting – and secondly, to ensure that the road cost guidelines are decided as quickly as possible with meat on the bone, as I always say, to force transport policy, namely the environmentally friendly modes of transport, such as rail. There is also a need for decades to catch up, and I will work hard to eliminate it. I hope with all your support. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not enough to be happy in the European Union. Europe is not an association where you occasionally exchange stamps and pay the membership fee annually, so that perhaps at the end of the year you will be invited to the Christmas celebration, of course not. Europe is our future, Europe is our chance, but Europe also presents us with challenges that we need to deal with and deal with together and wisely, and I invite you to do so, as I did at the beginning. Transport policy would be such a question where I invite you to co-operation, whether it be a question of reorganising the public transport sector, or whether it is a matter of forcing and representing the international transport routes in Europe together, as it has already been said, ‘TEN’, ‘Trans-European networks’. I invite you, also in my new role – and I like to remain Transport Ministers – to do the best for Austria in these issues, which should not have party-political puncture. These challenges, which Europe faces, should be taken together, across party borders, then we will take a big step forward and we will also receive the praise of today's population and subsequent generations. It's an hour's commandment! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's site policy will decide on the prosperity of tomorrow. Since in the last few days I have been asked by some, especially journalists, but also by friends, also by you, whether my resort, the infrastructure resort, is already large enough, whether I am not already used up and why I am now still ready to become Vice-Cancellor of this Republic, I can tell you: Of course, the important tasks of the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology will also be of enormous importance in the coming years, in Austria, in Europe. I am fully aware of that. We will go from the edge of Europe to the heart of Europe in May 2004, if we want to do so, because Europe is getting bigger, because there is enlargement to the south, and I believe that these are not only challenges I have mentioned earlier, they are also opportunities that we should benefit from. Looking at Europe also requires that we solve internal tasks quickly. The domestic economy, ladies and gentlemen, will grow by only 0.7 percent in 2003 – an economic forecast that forces us to act, as I mean. We owe the economic packages I and II to the fact that they are 0.7 percent at all. It has already been mentioned that economic growth between 0.5 and 0.75 percent is the result, in particular, of promoting research and development, but also of investing in infrastructure in Austria, which we have adopted in the economic packages I and II. That is to say, Austria, like many other comparable countries, would not have made these decisions in good time, a zero growth or even a minus. That is why, I believe, it is good and right, when, as Mr Bundeskanzler was discussing, we strongly adopt an economic programme III with the right content to secure jobs in order to strengthen purchasing power and also to involve our companies in an internationally difficult economic phase. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I announced the year 2003 as the year of road construction, because for the first time we want to spend 1 billion euros in this Republic for the high-level road network – motorways and highways – and we want to continue this – 2004 will definitely bring it. I have also fought for the expansion of the “rail infrastructure new” – railway offensive, railways, additional tracks, modernisations, attracting the railways – to be available or used annually between €1 billion and €1.2 billion. It should also be said, however, that the investment of € 1 billion in infrastructure will create 16 000 to 18 000 new jobs, and that is a number that should also be mentioned. It is well-invested money if we invest more money in road development, in increasing safety, especially in the environmentally friendly modes of transport rail, each € 1 to € 1.2 billion. That will be good in the next few years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said: We are a very reformable government. There are also some reforms that need courage and determination. We liberals will bring this courage and also the determination to work out the reforms provided for in the government programme. These reform plans are not always and everywhere happy, you know, because Austrian mentality is such that, in fact, all reforms are more or less desirable, but there is nothing to change. I can't do that, ladies and gentlemen. I come at this point to speak to the ÖBB reform, not in detail, we still have opportunities elsewhere and at another time enough to discuss the ÖBB reform, as it is now under review. But I tell you, ladies and gentlemen: We need this train to meet mobility requirements in order to be able to deal with mobility needs not only in Austria, but also in Europe with Austria as a partner at all. In order to continue to be able to look at and claim to our people, our drivers – the rails, the road trailers: For years we have done everything we can to move as much transport as possible, both passenger and freight transport, from the road to the rail, to the environmentally friendly rail network!, we must implement this rail reform, as quickly as possible and as I say, as consistently as possible. The cornerstones stand. We need an internationally competitive railway, we need a railway that is again proud and above all a piece of Austrian identity – that will be important. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will also need a lot of courage for reforms if, for example, it is necessary to reform health care if measures are to be taken to increase the safety of the population if pension systems are to be fair, say: harmonising when it comes to boosting the economy through targeted measures. I have already said in this House: Those who have visions need courage and the right strategy. And this federal government has courage and also the right strategies. I will be happy to make an even greater contribution in my role as Vice-Chancellor to give Austria this momentum, which has been missing for decades, but which Austria deserves and needs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The tax and tax ratio has also been mentioned: She's sinking, but she's still too high. We must not close our eyes to the fact that we are at the forefront of the tax rate in Europe. It is therefore important that we do everything in this direction to consolidate our economic location in this growing Europe. I would draw attention to the fact that four out of the ten countries that are new to it are bordering on Austria, that at least 1 300 kilometres of the external border will be lost and that the countries that are on the road to economic policy and fiscal policy are on their way. In order to strengthen and make the economic location of Austria competitive internationally, we have to keep in mind these tax and financial developments. I am therefore very pleased, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that in future we will have a constant, ongoing observation, evaluation of the national, but also international tax policy, fiscal, economic and economic developments, and that, as has been said, we will not only draw the conclusions, but also, if necessary, take appropriate action. This ensures, ladies and gentlemen, that we will have a flexible fiscal and economic policy, so that we do not have a rigid programme. I am very much in favour of programmes that are being implemented, but we must show flexibility on this issue in this growing Europe, where economic policy, fiscal policy, is so much around us. That is why I am very pleased that the first step of the major tax reform, the largest in the Second Republic at all, will take with 1. January 2004 will come: Income up to €14 500 a year will be tax-free in future, well 200 000 Austrians will benefit directly, the net effectiveness will at least make up €524 million! [[Abg. May. Kogler: The head was still clear!]] This will not relieve less than 1.65 million workers, 730 000 pensioners and 60 000 self-employed. A total of more than 2.3 million Austrians will already benefit from this first step, and that in times when things and problems need to be discussed in neighbouring countries like Germany. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: I believe that, apart from the level of the tax rate, we must also remember to simplify our tax system, and that is why I am happy to recapture an old idea of the Free Party – Mr President nodds and knows what is going to happen now: Yes, of course, we will also have to re-evaluate the model of flat tax, the simple tax, which creates transparency and ensures that you are familiar with each other, which means, above all, less bureaucraticism and administration. This is part of a tax reform. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I could explain to you a few more liberal approaches to this government programme – we will do so gradually when discussing the respective points. I recognize in German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel a long-standing political guide if I can describe it this way – he said it himself – with which I already had to deal or negotiate as a small provincial politician. I'll tell you something. I have always felt fair treatment, Vorarlberg has never been too short, and now I hope that this fair treatment continues, although we are now in a completely different partnership, and the government partner is not too short, which means that Austria is not too short. This must be our common concern: that we make the best future policy for the Austrians – I am prepared to do so anyway. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] At the end of my remarks, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank a man, my predecessor in the role of Vice-Chancellor, Herbert Haupt, who has achieved a great deal in recent months. I would like to thank you here in every way, my dear Herbert, for your work and your commitment as Vice Chancellor of this Republic. Under your leadership, the liberal government team has managed to implement, implement and implement freedom policy in Austria, and, dear Herbert, you know that you continue to have a very, very important task in the coming weeks and months, namely as a Social Minister. I would like to thank you for what has been done so far and I am glad that you will continue to be a good social minister of this Republic with much commitment and joy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] With you, Mr President, and the entire government team, I will also take the tasks as Minister of Infrastructure very seriously and continue to pursue with great commitment: improving national and international rail and road infrastructure, improving the connection to international transport networks, strengthening Austria's research site and modernising telecommunications infrastructure, to name but a few. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I close with a quote from Richard von Weizsäcker, who once said: The most important task for us today, which we bear, is the life-worthy future for future generations. I am willing to bear this responsibility with joy and commitment. Support me with this! [[Long-lasting applause with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I think it's going up again now!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[11:01]] Notice of applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6441	Ladies and gentlemen! Before entering the debate on the two declarations, the following may be announced: In accordance with Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure, MEPs Dr. Pilz, colleagues, have requested a committee of inquiry to examine the allegations made against the Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz. It is in this context that of five delegates according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported the request to hold a debate on this request. In addition, in accordance with § 33 para., MEPs have Dr. Gusenbauer, colleagues. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested that an investigation committee be set up to clarify the conduct of the Federal Minister of Finance in respect of the infringement of the Incompatibilities Act, the Enforcement of the Employment Act, the Enforcement of the ÖIAG Act and the award of advisory and advertising contracts. In this context too, a request was made for a debate to be held. There is a parliamentary practice that, when more than one application is requested to set up an investigation committee on the same or almost identical subject, a joint debate is held. In agreement with the first applicants, it is therefore proposed, with reference to this practice, that the debate on both applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry should be held on: to carry out a project. The reasons are, as far as I can remember, separate, and the debate will then be held under one. Is there any contradiction? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. The debate will take place after the agenda has been completed. We now come to the debate on the statements made. Mr Gusenbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Speech time: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6491	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Herbert Haupt obviously sealed his fate as a vice-ganner just three weeks ago, when he said in the “press hour” that the economic policy of this government had failed completely. The expectation of such a statement was that either the ministers responsible for it – Grasser and Bartenstein – will be released because of the proven inability of their offices or that a change of course takes place in economic policy or that the government as a whole bears responsibility. But no! Far from it! The only one who has correctly established that this course has failed completely in economic policy must now go as a vice-ganner. – This is the wrong step, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It was to be expected after this change took place within the government – let's call it: Armchairs in the government, and less: Government reform – that today's big announcements are that the Federal Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor are now taking the opportunity to say what is now being done differently; for example, what the Federal Government intends to do in view of a forecast that Austria will be the final light for economic growth in the European Union next year. What are the exciting proposals to avoid this situation? One could have assumed that today you will finally say how you will fulfill the promise that the apprentices who are still waiting for an apprenticeship will receive an apprenticeship this autumn. It would have been interesting if you had told us how the economy would be boosted – not after the Bartenstein scheme, after which the economy will only be boosted if it costs nothing – if you had told what resources would be made available for it. But there has been no answers to all these questions. All you've told us today was already known – old-fashioned! Today, where Austria has been a member of the European Union for eight years and there has been funding from the Structural and Regional Funds for eight years, these Structural Funds are new and exciting opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen! These Structural Funds should have long been useful for the government to prepare for EU enlargement, not only from today's day! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The message was particularly significant: Whoever does not change does not remain faithful! – In this way, the Federal Chancellor pointed out that in an increasingly short period of time, the number of vice chancellors or vice chancellors he consumes is increasing. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: People “do not consume”!]] The question therefore arises: When will the next change come so he can remain faithful? [[Deputies Dr. Brinek and Dr. Drinkl: “Consuming” you people?]] In this context, the answer by Vice-Chancellor Gorbach was significant: he hopes for a fair treatment by the Federal Chancellor. – Is this evidence of a cooperation of two equal parties in the Federal Government, or is there a party seeking mercy and only hopes for fair treatment on the first day of office? So, ladies and gentlemen, you will not be able to solve the problems! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know that the ÖVP can still laugh until the flat tax, because everything that has so far been presented as a problem of this government was: There is an ÖVP governance programme, with individuals in the FPÖ providing relief services. The problem over the past eight months has been that more and more often, parts of the FPÖ do not want to go along with this course, because they meant that the pension cuts, for example, might be a bit too sharp and yet a little too unfair. There's been some unhappiness. Not all were as keen on the catchers as Klubobmann Scheibner did. And also on the question of tax reduction, some in the FPÖ considered that one should perhaps take a more moderate approach to this question. But the problem was that the ÖVP answered every single question with Njet and the FPÖ bit on granite. The current ideas of Federal Chancellor Schüssel and Vice Chancellor Gorbach promise no improvement in relation to this central problem of the government at all. It is the continuation of the same policy with other people, but the same means, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In this context, however, there is an interesting change: Mr. Gorbach is a member of a party that until recently meant to be with the 1. In January 2004, there had to be a tax reduction in order to boost the economy. [[Call the ÖVP: Give it too!]] [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Gorbach.]] – Your satisfaction has changed rapidly. Until recently, what the government has done in terms of tax policy, according to the former Vice-President's Head of State, was complete failure! You have a large tax reduction with 1. ==References====External links== – What has become of it? Mr Gorbach informs us that he has already committed himself mercilessly in the government. One would now observe together the tax development of the other European countries. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A merciless announcement to change the tax policy of this government by the new Vice-Cancellor: he has insisted that the tax rates are now observed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If there is to be a tax reduction which prevents Austria from being at the end of economic growth in the European Union next year, then observation will not be enough, but then we will have to decide on a tax reduction this autumn, which really makes a contribution to growth and employment, and not just observe it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! In your speech you also announced that you would like to achieve a cooperation with the Austrian Federal Railways, because Austria needs this railway. – They are perfectly right that Austria needs this train, especially because it was significantly more successful in freight transport than all other trains on the European scale. There is a real need to catch up in passenger transport, but in the transport of goods our train was indeed successful. If you want to achieve cooperation with the railways, you can also reach them, but not according to the motto of your Secretary of State, which means that everything must first be put together so that everything can be rebuilt. We will certainly not be available to social democrats for this kind of cooperation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Interesting, ladies and gentlemen, was also the lack of words on the issue of the continuation of pension harmonisation. The Federal Chancellor has always talked about two stages: first pension insurance and in autumn the great pension harmonisation, already with 1. January next year will enter into force. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – There is no word today about this harmonisation of pensions, only polemics against other Member States. [[Deputies Dr. Brinek and Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: Listen!]] I'll tell you something. Their comparisons with the Federal Republic of Germany only live on polemics and ignorance! We do not want these problems that the Germans have. If you are addressing Germany in connection with the pension question, then tell us that the average pension per month is 180 € higher than in Austria and that less pension insurance contributions are to be made in Germany than in Austria! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The incomes are different too!]] So if you already do comparisons, please complete and not only polemic individual comparisons! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The government today did not offer anything new for the new start, the re-start of a government in human terms, and essentially tried to present what the Federal Chancellor had already announced last night. He said that it needed predictability and stability and that this change in the FPÖ government team would also be achieved. – If I were Herbert Haupt, I would like to thank you for this compliment, so to speak, only now, through this change, predictability and stability. I find the vice chancellor still to be able to get on with it, I find it quite strong, especially when stability in the absence of time is moving in the absolute absence. What have you made for a proposal on health reform today? - Zero! What proposal has been made to boost the economy? - Zero! What proposal has been put forward for the harmonisation of pensions? - Zero! What proposal has been made to create apprenticeships for apprentices? - Again, zero! Absolutely empty of contents, as far as future problems are concerned, ladies and gentlemen. Absolute empty content! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The ÖVP – a party that often says, without reading anything, that the other parties have no proposals – I would like to say: As regards pension harmonisation, there has been a proposal from the Social Democrats since April this year. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Show him to us!]] How many times do I have to show you? You don't read him again! Mr Fassleven has to be given a paper ten times, but he will not learn to read it, because he has not read it to this day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There has been a proposal for harmonisation by the Austrian Trade Union Confederation for two weeks, which can be taken as a basis for discussion. So there are proposals from the SPÖ, proposals from the trade unions, but not a proposal from the government. It is on the question of tax reduction and boosting of the economy that we have fixed and completed requests from the Social Democrats here in Parliament for consideration in the financial committee. Of whom are there no proposals? – From the ÖVP and from the FPÖ! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] There are ready proposals from the Social Democrats in the Teaching Committee for a Modern Education Policy, so that all day school can be actually made available to Austrian children and young people. Of whom are there no proposals? – From the ÖVP and from the FPÖ! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Read the laws! Read the School Education Act!]] This way the list can be continued. In the meantime, we have to deal with an Austrian government that has no proposals to offer, no answers to the challenges of our time and their mobility are limited to the seat-back in the government. Little, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Time is going to be pretty slow – by the end of the year it is only a few months left – to take the decisive measures, ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, if the FPÖ is satisfied with monitoring the tax development, I would recommend closing the following: [[Abg. Scheibner: We need your advice at all!]] You will end this observation period with the next meeting of the National Council so that we can still decide in November on a tax reduction that will actually help the Austrian economy and Austrian workers more than this seatback in the government!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6724	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to welcome a guest from India, the speaker of the Himachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly G. R. Musafir. Welcome to Vienna! [[General condolences.]] Klubobmann Mag is reported to speak. Molterer. Speech time: 15 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6751	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians have now really been able to convince themselves: The SPÖ has exactly that position where it belongs, namely to the opposition. It's better if you stay there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Austrians have also been able to convince themselves that our country is in good hands with this federal government, which is formed by the Austrian People's Party and FPÖ. This is important for the country that is kept safe and quiet, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to begin by welcoming and correcting Mr Hubert Gorbachherzlich, on behalf of the Austrian People's Party, in his new role: Mr. Vice-Chancellor! A member of a state government is basically not a small provincial politician! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Cheerfulness on the government bank.]] Today I would like to make this statement for all the members of the state government – of course for the Vorarlbergers, and perhaps Mr Van der Bellen will also believe that a Council of State is not a small provincial politician in principle. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the SPÖ and the Greens: "Tossor" applause!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I would like to welcome you as someone who has done and does professional work in his department, who is decisive and enforceable. And I would like to welcome you as a Vice-Chancellor, who has developed great respect for himself and for Austria at European level and also deserves great respect for the European dimension of his work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We therefore wish Mr Hubert Gorbach much success in his work. Success for him means: Success for Austria! I would like to thank Herbert Haupt on behalf of the Austrian People's Party and the Austrian People's Party Club. His work as Vice-Chancellor was not easy – from the circumstances under which he took responsibility. All the more it took me personally to respect how Herbert Haupt filled out this office. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Is that the convocation?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Herbert Haupt has, in particular, deserved respect for the fact that, with his social policy initiatives, he has contributed to the history of the Second Republic's social policy. [[Call at the SPÖ:... ruined!]] – Thank you very much, Herbert Haupt, and all the good for the function that you continue to perform, namely as Minister of Social Affairs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger:... VfGH judgments! That's incredible!]] However, I would also like to use today's debate on the declarations on government reform to explain our understanding of politics as a Christian-social Austrian People's Party. In my opinion, one of the main tasks of politics is to change in times when a lot of things are changing, on the one hand, the courage to have a responsibility to change and on the other hand to give security and stability. And I am sorry to say this to you very openly, some of the discussions that are being held in the parties, which may mean that it is more reasonable and wise not to implement some reform or not to implement it so quickly or to do so to a large extent. All those who say this are written in the main book: The future of the country is damaging to those who are not deeply concerned with reforms too late! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue this responsible reform path consistently. Why? – Because we cannot and must not close our eyes in the face of what is emerging in the future. Demographic development has already been mentioned: If we know that over the next 25 to 30 years, there will be a doubling of people over 60 years and a massive reduction in the percentage and absolute share of young people in society, then we must now react. Whoever does not tell the truth, and does not tell people this truth, acts irresponsibly, ladies and gentlemen, [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We must not close our eyes! Mr Gusenbauer, this is also the core accusation I make to the Social Democracy in Austria: They do not tell people the truth about the needs arising from increasing globalisation and the needs arising from EU enlargement. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Bullshit!]] Both will result in us having tougher competitive conditions. We must face this out openly, because we can only respond to it properly. There are developments, for example in the field of technology, to which politics has to react in advance, instead of scattering sand into the eyes of people and pretending to be not taking place. There are developments in the world of work, since it would be the most fatal mistake, Mr Vergestnich, to insist on possessions and look back and not forward. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is the task of politics, as we understand it, ladies and gentlemen. This Federal Government, formed by ÖVP and FPÖ, led by German Chancellor Schüssel and Vice-Cancellor Gorbach, will continue this path of responsible and necessary changes based on a clear value orientation and target presentation for our home country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] We can build on solid state finances. – Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you: What European country can say of itself that, in a difficult economic situation, the state finances have first been put in order and, secondly, to keep in order? Austria can say that! I would like to thank the Federal Government, I thank the Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser for this perspective of clear, stable and sound financial and budgetary policies, which will secure us a good future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We can build on a reform path that this Federal Government has successfully taken in the last legislative period. And I'm not just going beyond the fact that this country is the one in Europe – and I'd say: worldwide too! – probably doing the most for families and children. Children's money, long controversial, belongs to the common good today and is a matter of course. The SPÖ has rejected it. Today, the SPÖ says, maybe you should improve something. Obviously, we did the right thing about child money. We have taken a revolutionary step towards the workers in this country with the “handling-up of new”. This is a measure which ensures social security in old age and wide distribution of property among workers in this country in the long term, ladies and gentlemen. And with the general provision of the future, there is now also a perspective for the third pillar. The pension reform was controversial, I know. But it is a courageous and a real step. – Mr Gusenbauer, read international newspapers! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I read them...! Read it yourself!]] The European countries, the industrialized states envy us, first of all about this federal government, but above all about the successes of the pension reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Other countries do not even have the confidence to discuss what we have already done! Of course, we will also implement tax relief. This has led us to look positively to the future on a solid economic basis, based on a balanced, just distribution between young and old. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] I cannot spare you to ask here the question of how the SPÖ reacts. Whoever Erich Haider saw tonight: I haven't experienced such a wretched loser at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] Obviously he has deserved to have finally received this answer. But how does the SPÖ react? – At this stage, for example, the SPÖ is discussing the erodement and abolition of the European Stability Pact. [[Abg. Gaál: 11 percent plus is a loser for you?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean? – You want to make more debts again! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No!]] In this situation, the SPÖ is discussing expenditure increases without taking account of the budgetary situation, i.e.: They want to make more debts again. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: On the contrary!]] We have enough of that, because we still have a lot of money to pay for your debts today, and we don't want to do that! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No! These are your debts!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] So you react by demanding tax reductions. But then what are you doing? – You reject the concrete tax cuts here in Parliament! A tax exemption of up to €14 500 is included in your claim programme. We have realized that you have rejected it! You need to clarify this contradiction first. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Don't talk nonsense! Bullshit hurts!]] They suggest a reduction in transfer payments. So, Mr Gusenbauer, if your answer is to reduce the means of housing, care and family allowances, I can only tell you: Not with us! You already have the right place in the political landscape. We will not go along with this, we will prevent it, ladies and gentlemen, just as we will prevent your proposed increase in contributions. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] That is obviously your only answer! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You just want to keep yourself! You want a two-class medicine! The inhumane is the natural thing for you!]] Since the ÖGB Congress has recently ended, I would also like to deal with the trade union and the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. Mr President, I am sorry to say to you that, after these trade union days of the ÖGB, I feel that the Austrian Trade Union Confederation has adopted itself of over-participation and that either the extended arm of Löwelstraße or Löwelstraße is the extended arm of the Hohenstaufengasse. [[Call the ÖVP:Leider!]] That is not our understanding of the extra-party trade union movement, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In addition, I think it is quite clear that the Austrian Trade Union Confederation supports the strike at the AUA, i.e. the strike of the top earners, risking the existence of the entire company. [[Call the ÖVP: And the employee!]] And I think it equally worrying that in the field of the Austrian Federal Railways you obviously raised the idea of possession on your principle, Mr President Verzellnich. The state-of-the-art thinking in the ÖBB prevents a good future for the Bundesbahn. We want to change so that the Bundesbahn is led to a good future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You want to destroy! That's all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is interesting to consider the discussion contribution made by the Trade Union Confederation to harmonisation. That's what I'm saying. [[Abg. Controversy: Now we're the good again?- Oh, my God!]] I say openly to you, I regret that before the summer you obviously were unable to take this step. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Why don't you have your own proposals? Your proposals are only proposals for destruction! PRESIDENT. — The next item is the report (Doc.]] [[Abg. Conspicuous:... the offer rejected!]] We will, of course, include your considerations if – and I am firmly convinced of this – this model of harmonisation based on the cornerstones 45 years of contribution, 65 years of life and 80 percent is actually consistently maintained and not introduced by the back door of early retirement. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you must be more consistent. [[Abg. Through the front door! We're not going through the back door!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We continue the process of reform with high pressure! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: With high pressure the path of destruction!]] We will continue these reform programmes for Austria – for full employment, for growth, for the compatibility of work and family, for research and development, for a modern infrastructure and modern infrastructure companies such as a modern, reformed Bundesbahn – with a courageous harmonisation model for all pensions, with a strategy to relieve the economy and the citizens and an offensive way for secure and high-quality health care. This way, ladies and gentlemen, we go with determination and with determination. People can rely on it: This path is reliable and predictable. With all the strength for Austria! That's our motto.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7170	Next speaker – and thus back at the speaker’s desk – is colleague Van der Bellen. Speech time: 15 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7199	Ladies and gentlemen! Let me first make a personal preliminary remark! I was involuntarily in the general hospital in Linz for a few weeks. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Well cared for!]] – Well cared for, very well cared for! On the occasion of this stay or the days after that, many good wishes have reached me, not only from the Greens – I would have expected – but also from the Social Democrats, the People's Party and from the Freedoms, in other words from all four political groups of this House. [[Rejoicing]] I would like to thank you very much for this. [[General condolences.]] Since I have the impression that certain rumors are self-employed these days, I say immediately: Among these writings and flower bouquets was one of Mr. Pühringer's heads of state. But it was long before the country election. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] In other words: I am totally innocent of this so-called black-green agreement in Upper Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But that's not an unpleasant thing!]] - Don't! But: Honor who deserves honor! It is in this case Rudi Anschober and the Upper Austrian Greens. [[Abg. Scheibner: It honors them!]] And, Mr. Molterer, you're right: In the future, I will take country councils even more important than I have always done anyway. [[General cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Only when you have posts do you take them seriously!]] By the way: If I don't cheat, then even a good wish of the current Vice-Chancellor, then Federal Minister Gorbach, was there, and I would also be innocent of blue-green, which is not. So I wouldn't be to blame here just as much as I would in the other case. [[Abg. Scheibner: We still have a lot to do!]] - Yes! We still have a lot to look at, Mr Scheibner. - Yes, yes. [[Abg. Disciples: Work!]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: yours!]] When I listen to today’s debate: on the one hand, “new swing”, “new beginning”, which has not all become new, I notice three things. First: The exchange of door signs is apparently attributed to an almost magical effect. Secondly, Haider tries to create new stages on all levels, that's okay. And thirdly, No word will be lost about the real weakness of this federal government, namely the Finance Minister. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser's not on the government bank anymore.]] [[Call the Greens and the SPÖ:Now he's gone anyway! It's gone!]] There's no new heads! What actually happens – and now we leave aside the internal leadership issues of the Freedom Party – is that at the government level the screwdrivers are taken and the sign, on which “Vizekanzler Haupt” stood, is mounted and the sign “Vizekanzler Gorbach” is mounted. This is the magic effect of the door sign, which brings completely new momentum to this federal government and, as my colleague Gusenbauer ironically noted, will guarantee a fresh start at all levels. I don't mean that – just for the sake of clarity – that this alone guarantees the new beginning. [[Rejoicing]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It has already occurred to us all, of course, that even this one, if one wants to talk about it already, is disavowed little new beginnings, namely by the new press spokesman of the Federal Government, a certain Jörg Haider from Klagenfurt, who at the same time, as Schüssel and Gorbach, Chancellor and Vice-Cancellor, are at the Federal President to inform him of this revirement – the main and the bowl, thank you, Mr Molterer; [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer]] The main and the bowls were at the President of the Federal Republic of Klestil to present this to him – all of which has already been communicated through the media. Congratulations! Just so on! We're going to have a lot of joy. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] On the other hand: What does the Carinthian head of state try? – He's just trying to create new stages! Why? – Because the Kärntner stage for the Kärntner Landtag elections is obviously not enough according to its own assessment. And in this regard, we share his assessment. We actually share this assessment. The Carinthian economic data, for example, are so devastating that he will have to work hard to cover this failure of his time as head of state! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] So it's no wonder he's trying everything to distract from his performance in Carinthia. We will compare the other federal states and the Carinthian performance, because it seems to have become usus within the Federal Government to always compare with the world's worst country, and then say: But Austria is better anyway! Eurozone! Eurozone! – Eurozone, averages! [[Federal Minister Dr. Schüssel and Abg. May. Molterer:]] Maybe I am a romantic of the past too! If so, please correct me every minute, Mr Molterer and others. But I imagine that in Austrian politics 10, 20, 30 or more years ago, it was worrying that others are better – not calming down that others are worse! It is not an art to find any country that is worse than Austria in terms of economic growth, unemployment, educational expenditure or illiteracy. That's really not art! You don't need to go like a gorilla and drum on your chest: Insanity, wonderful, the Austrians are just great and unique! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That wasn't meant personally now, Mr. Molterer, but: With the leaders, with the leaders – with Finland for example in education policy – we should compare with these countries and ask why we are not at the forefront. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You obviously failed that there was a massive pick-up and position improvement!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I would like to have a discussion with you about this, instead of you saying again and again: Germany! Germany!, which by chance does not hold in various indicators at present what we all hoped for. To return to Carinthia: This is your silent government partner – I am now watching you from the ÖVP – you chose it so much at the time, he is still, and he will continue to play a show every day. And when he's out on the weekend, he might have been at Saddam Hussein's tea before. I do not know what is happening to him in future in terms of foreign policy, the Austrian interests certainly very “promoting” things. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: On the matter!]] The question is as opposed to earlier: How much is the FPÖ in Carinthia? – We used to ask: How much will the FPÖ win? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You certainly didn't like that!]] Now the question is: Haider loses less than the average of FPÖ in Tyrol, in Upper Austria, in Lower Austria?, and so on. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The question is how much the Greens will lose in Carinthia!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] To Grasser [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Also a Carinthian!]] The worst vulnerability in this Federal Government is our belief in the Minister of Finance. This head, if you're already talking in these martial sounds – I'd rather not do it... There is no chair back there, not a door sign-up and mounting, but: The Minister of Finance remains the Minister of Finance, who has tried to deceive us in his budget speech, with his data on education and science, which were invented freely. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's wrong!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I suspect that you still believe that these data voted – six months later! That's really bad! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr Van der Bellen, that's below your normal level!]] If you do not believe me, perhaps you will read the opinion of the Industrial Union, which once again and especially in these days pointed out that the Austrian objectives for research and development are not being achieved – and not least because of the budget policy of Grasser and Gehrer, I must say that. For reasons of time, I am not able to list in detail what the Minister of Finance has meant to us in recent months: starting from the shock – for me personally – this incorrect, incorrect budget speech, which I really annoyed and echoed at the time, because I do not see my job of checking false data in detective work, but I naturally expect the Minister to tell you the truth. Furthermore, the tax-political problems that the Minister of Finance has personally charged with financing his homepage by the Industrial Union, with us still unknown opinions that should wash this association and him personally. It is the merit of Mr Matznetter von der SPÖ, the authors of these so-called German opinions, with whom State Secretary Finz of the ÖVP has tried to clean up the Minister of Finance, so to speak, to draw these authors to land, to bring them to Austria and to let us confirm: No, no, this interpretation of State Secretary Finz is rather adventurous, which is quite an invitation to tax reduction and tax evasion! This interpretation is certainly unacceptable! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] To get it to the point, ladies and gentlemen: Who likes to pay taxes?- Oh, my God! Only: That all taxes must pay, only one not, namely Karl-Heinz Grasser, except the Minister of Finance, that can't be it either! However, I would be pleased if, in the first place, one or the other of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, if you do not agree to my motion of censure - which I am almost going to say - at least to the setting up of a committee of inquiry, a committee of inquiry which would have to clarify various questions, questions which need to be resolved. [[the speaker makes a corresponding hand movement]] On this point I can appeal again to the past of the FPÖ and say: In the past, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you were always there when it was something to clarify when there were things where it was in the interest of Parliament and the political hygiene to create clarity – as always and on whose favors or disfavors it is. Now, on the other hand, you don't do that from the FPÖ anymore! Now you cover Minister of Finance Grasser – and this, although I can imagine how you look inside. But this is of no use, you have to represent it from the FPÖ, right up to the infringing reporting obligations due to the inconsistency law, that is, a violation of the laws, in this case even a constitutional law that the Minister of Finance has come into debt. That is why I am making the following request again today – and for the time being: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The other events of these days would be purely “private” to the FPÖ if one wanted to do so, it would not be a second government party. And, of course, that's what interests us. As far as I can see that from the outside – how should I say that now? –: They wanted to get away from your image of the “Führer Party” from FPÖ and now create a collective leadership. We used to know: The head of the party was the head of the party. – Now it's still some form of head. Then he got a leader of the party, Mrs. Haubner. She's not in the hall right now. [[Abg. Eder: It's gone now! She's already with her brother!]] There is practically a third party leader, because what else should be a vice-chanc Gorbach as an implicit third party leader? And of course we have our friend in Carinthia. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Friend is not that!]] – Surely I have overlooked one or the other now. Is all this supposed to be clear within the second government party?- Oh, my God! Even the colleagues from the liberals smile at this rhetorical question. [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: I didn't know you were friends at all!]] [[Call to the SPÖ – in the direction of the State Secretary sitting on the Government Bank Mag. Schweitzer –:Be glad you can still sit up there]] Today, of course, from the government bank, it has said so much – as it is usual – that: Dead Indian, good Indian! I also see qualities of the divorced vice chancellor's head, which one somehow has to honor: For at least six or twelve months, he has endured a mutilation tactic. Knittelfeld was only once, so to speak, “knettle field new. ” There is a “new governance” – and “new cutting field” also exists: disassembly disassembly; every day a little bit a dose of muttering and mubbing, to which Mr. Haupt then finally gave up. One can feel a certain sense of compassion for this, as I believe, but that this should be the new leadership of the FPÖ, the government party FPÖ, no one in this country believes! [[Abg. Wittauer: I believe it!]] And you will not be able to do this to us today, Mr Scheibner, who, I believe, will speak for me. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wittauer.]] In conclusion: Mr Molterer, not only you but others from the government have repeatedly pointed out the problems of the so-called change in the age pyramid. D’accord, there are problems, but there are issues that arise in this context, which you will find difficult to solve with this your government partner. And so far you haven't even tried that. First problem: Increase in the so-called employment rate of women. – You will not create this from the ÖVP with a government partner – and perhaps this is your own ideology – who sees women on the herd rather than in the work. But that's your decision. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I'm just saying: This is an open flank of your government policy – thank you, Mr President! – and the second is: The answer to the change in the age pyramid without having to have a minimum degree of a concept for immigration will not go either! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is not a good start for Upper Austria, what you say!]] With this partner of government, namely the FPÖ, you will do just as little as the increase in the employment rate of women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7682	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Bellen concerning the refusal of confidence towards the Minister for Finance is duly signed and is under negotiation. Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Same speaking time of 15 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7703	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen, with all due respect – and we are all pleased that you are back here and here with us –: I'll tell you why we smiled. I thought how long 15 minutes can be if you wait for some alternatives to what the Federal Government, what German Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors have presented here today. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Didn't you watch out?]] We have with you, Mr Deputies. Van der Bellen, but also Mr Gusenbauer, in vain, is waiting for alternatives. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But it honors us, Mr Van der Bellen, if you are devoting much of your speech to the Freedom Party, the head of state of Carinthia and also to internal discussions and strategies of the FPÖ, this shows that reports that we would be written off and that there will be only further loss of elections in us are not voting, but rather – quite the contrary! – that you know very well within you, Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Gusenbauer, that when the FPÖ returns to that – and that will be so! . – what she has awarded, for which FPÖ has been elected, to an ever-increasing extent, Mr Van der Bellen, namely to present content, to develop solutions to the problems of the population of Austria not only but also to implement them in a government, then we will again be a very, very strong factor to expect from you and everyone else in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Then you agree to the Investigation Committee!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact that your Greens in Carinthia are obviously so weak – you don't know who will run for the Greens there – that you, as club and party chairman, have to use an important debate on a government statement to present Kärntner's country policy for the election campaign, which also shows a little bit of the problems your group has. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: The election campaign takes place elsewhere!]] Mr Gusenbauer, Member of the European Parliament Van der Bellen, interesting is: Obviously, in Austria, someone has to step back to have a good renunciation. – Yes, I too agree with you in your positive assessment by Deputy Chancellor Herbert Haupt, and here on behalf of my group I would like to join in all this praise, but: It would have been nice, however, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and Greens, including some members of other parties, if there had been such praise if there had been such support for you in the past few weeks and months. Herbert Haupt would have deserved this for his work, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Praise and recognition for Herbert Haupt! He has managed to bring the liberals to repositioning in this Federal Government at a difficult stage, and he has also managed to represent the positive social policy for which we liberals have always stood to represent in the government – and that will continue to be his important task in the future. But of you, Mr Gusenbauer, we do not need any advice, nor do we need any advice on what is going on – but in this respect not much has come from you – because we know your content: [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Did you not hear that? – Wash your ears, Scheibner!]] Increase health insurance contributions, abolish housing promotion, and you have recently presented all of this, Mr Gusenbauer. And that is certainly not our policy! Otherwise, today you have said with a remarkablely accent-free Russian “njet” to all that has come from the Freedom Party and the Government. I don't know why this is so accent-free. Perhaps this is due, Mr Gusenbauer, somewhere in your political, ideological past – or even present – too. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] ‘Njet’, Mr. Gusenbauer, is also the symbol of a veto policy without taking care of the content, simply because one absolutely wants to be against it and because one has no own ideas. However, this is too little: too little for an opposition – and of course too little for a party that likes to be a state bearer and wants to assume government responsibility. Since you, Mr Gusenbauer, then also tried to give us advice on how to deal with internal discussions on how to deal with a change of government: You don't seriously believe that we all forgot how you did it from the SPÖ at the time! – I say to you in a day like today: We from the FPÖ have discussions too much in the public. But just as you have always done this by the SPÖ – that the people involved in government reforms have only learned about it from the media and, for example, German Chancellor Vranitzky has used 20 government members, until he has been pushed away in a night and fog action himself – this is certainly not an example of a transparent, consistent personnel policy in a federal government, Mr. Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the Freeman: Unbelievable, 20 Minister has consumed the Vrannitzky!]] [[Further calls to the liberals as well as calls to the SPÖ.]] You, Mr Gusenbauer, have said that you are not for a roll. – Wonderful, there we find ourselves, and that is not necessary, because there are excellent members in the Federal Government – and that will be so in the future. But what we do not need and what you, Mr Gusenbauer, have been talking about is a change of course, because we have had the course in Austria for 30 years in the direction you want us to be ordered. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Successful!]] This course was chosen by the Austrians in 1999. We don't want to go back there! We do not want to go back to a waste policy, where we will distribute election sugars at the expense of future generations, where, if necessary, we will make cuts, just as you did by the SPÖ, namely, with the poorest in our country, where you, your party chairman Vrannitzky, have written pensioners' letters and made promises before the elections, but after the elections have tried to restore the budget exactly at the expense of this generation! This is not the course that we imagine, but we want to continue the course we took in the year 2000: Policy for Austria to make politics for people in our country – but not for stakeholders, not for their own party and not for personal interests, as you have done from SPÖ for many years, even decades. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Member of the European Parliament Van der Bellen said we shouldn't measure with the weak. – Of course, we don’t want to measure ourselves with the weaker, but we want to put the latte up. But when constantly a “change of course ” is spoken of by“ other models, ” it is certainly allowed to look at where such models are in reality. And there is a country like Germany where your model – perhaps now less up-to-date due to various circumstances – is a red-green government reality. And here we see what consequences this has in Germany: Record deficits, record unemployment, no prospects for the future, departure of companies et cetera. This is your “model red-green” – and we really don’t want to compare ourselves with that, but you have to tell the population where your perspectives, those of red-greens lead and that this can by no means be the goal for Austria! We are proud, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and Greens, that we will prevent such projects and adventures in Austria in the future! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The benefits of this Federal Government can be seen: Family promotions like never in the last decades, just with the childcare allowance. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – They were against it, just as in the administrative reform, as in the important initiatives of security policy, as well as you have long resisted the “new settlement”, but then God thanked the social partners for this approach. Similarly, you have been against the fact that the budget is being reorganised in order to get a margin for the future, a margin that we can now benefit from thanks to God. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Gusenbauer, you have had 14 years of electoral defeats. I can tell you: It's a year. – And now it goes back to the profit zone: with an active government policy and an active Freedom Party. We do not need to imitate your example in this regard either! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, it is really important projects of the future. This Federal Government will also have to face these challenges, and I am sure that also Vice-chanc Gorbach, who is a minister of infrastructure and transport, will demonstrate that he is doing good work with content, with ideas for Austria both within and outside politics, which will continue consistently and in this sense. We are now preparing an economic package. There has now been said by some speaker – yes, from you – that these economic packages would not have caused anything. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I did!]] – Of course they did something! These two economic packages have Austria from a recession, have still preserved small economic growth! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The next economic package will ensure that the economic engine really jumps in 2004. This is an initiative of this Federal Government, also for the economy and for the purchasing power. It will therefore be necessary to implement the first stage of this 2004 tax reform – which has already been decided – and to implement in 2005 the largest tax relief package for the population in recent decades. We will also, and I say this to you in all clarity, of course have to review which positive measures, economic measures and purchasing power can already put into effect in 2004 for economic activity, for economic activities and for measures to promote purchasing power. There would be ideas asked by you, but you do not even make a request for tax reduction, but you have previously requested a tax increase. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is in Parliament!]] So bring it. Once you've got good ideas, we can also discuss them. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The request is in Parliament for processing!]] Other points: Health reform – an important concern! – and pension harmonisation so that the current quality social system can be maintained even for future generations. Ladies and gentlemen! The safety is always considered a little bit by the way. This is also a very special concern for us liberals: The high safety standards in Austria must be maintained. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, you know that a little bit of criticism has already taken place here. Savings and administrative reform: yes, that is necessary, it has also been enforced and must be continued; but with security saving, that cannot be supported by us and by me! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig:... more safety!]] Where the executive and the Austrian federal army need more personnel and infrastructure in order to guarantee the security of the population in the future, it will be necessary to provide additional resources in compliance with the austerity criteria. We will ensure that the standards and principles are respected. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Grief: Three years you have...!]] Mr. Kummerer, because as a military expert you are making an intermediate call here, I can tell you: It will also be up to you that the Federal Force Reform Commission will not discuss how little federal army you have in the future, but rather – without ideological swindlers – how the Austrian federal army, with its many thousands of dedicated soldiers, will focus on the new, future challenges, so that we can avoid and prevent such an important institution from being misused as the ball of the political parties and ideologies in the future. There's a lot to work on too! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Europe has been addressed – yes, this is an important project for the future! We all have great hopes in this common, peaceful Europe, but it is also necessary to introduce a critical component in Europe and in the European Union. We know that many mechanisms do not go in the direction we imagine: to shape the structures with democratic instruments and with as little administration as possible, to best represent citizens' concerns. Especially when it comes to taking into account European security interests and creating a European identity, Europe and the European Union are still very far from the goal. I expect the Austrian Federal Government – and the Austrian Parliament will also set up initiatives here – to present this positive and constructively critical role as an engine, but also as a controller for this European development. If we say that the European Union is a community of values, then these values must also be reflected in all Member States, and where this is not the case, there must be criticism. Ladies and gentlemen! For the foreign policy of Austria, I imagine taking on this critical role, for which we are appreciated, and to play this objective role. Wherever violence is exercised against the innocent and against civilians, where international law is broken by means of war – no matter who and where – Austria also has to raise its moaning and critical voice. This is what the Community of States expects from us, and I believe that the Austrians also expect an active and consistent foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say: It is also clear that we all need to develop future prospects together, for example in the education system, in research expenditure and research projects. We must ensure that Austria retains and perhaps even receives new locations, because only a functioning, active, future-oriented economy creates sustainable and sustainable jobs in the long term. That is the policy for the people, that is the policy for the future that we expect from this federal government. We are sure that it is even better guaranteed with this Federal Government in its amended composition than before. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is behind this Federal Government. We know that there is no alternative to this project of the bourgeois reform partnership for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8002	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking for a very quick decision. We assumed that we will start at 12 o'clock with the previous round – four times 10 minutes – and then finish by 1 p.m. with four times 5 minutes. Apparently, that's not going to happen. My proposal is now: four times 9 minutes, and then decide whether four more times 5 minutes are possible or whether to be reduced to four times 4 minutes. It seems to me to be useful. The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Speech time: 9 minutes – please keep exactly.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8031	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to congratulate the Chancellor of the Federal Government and the Federal Government on the great acting performance they have accomplished, because it must be brought together that if a government is in such a state of finality, it is really only looking and actually not going on, coming here and pretending to be the potential for a new beginning and for a break-up, and calling this government a “team”. [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]] [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: Thank you!]] So that's a great acting performance. However, you seem to have had a mistake in the text of the speech, Mr. Bundeskanzler, when you wished the new Vice-Chancellor all the best in the coming year. Does that mean that in a year, there's another new vice chancellor? [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or: You are no longer federal chancellors and may realize that it is better to replace the Federal Chancellor once and not always the Deputy Chancellor? – Please explain to us at last! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, studies have been mentioned and figures compared, and Alexander van der Bellen has very interestingly pointed out that one is always looking at poorer governments and not better. On Monday, an interesting study was presented in which eight comparable countries, countries of the European Union and Switzerland, were examined with regard to important, central economic data and other key figures – Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, the Netherlands, Sweden, Austria and Switzerland – and a total of 24 economic indicators showed that Austria was better in seven reviews, while 17 were worse than the average. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Now you're happy, aren't you?]] One has to say that the study was commissioned by the Upper Austrian Industrial Association by Professor Dr. Friedrich Schneider, economic teacher at the Johannes Kepler University of Linz, and he has also made this presentation. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Now Cap is happy: He can be negative!]] The interesting thing is that, in terms of economic growth, as measured by the national gross domestic product, with an average of 2.2 percent over the years 1998 to 2003, we are in the lower middle of the countries, that Austria has one of the lowest values in gross domestic expenditure on research and experimental development over all the years under study, and that, unlike these comparable countries, we have gradually increased the tax rate, i.e., the Austrians. I'm not talking about the loosening rate now, it's one of the worst things you've got to show. That is, in all important data it turns out that you have done bad work and have failed. Now, in the end, almost self-confidence: But now we have to scratch the sleeves! – I heard that from the presentation of the new Vice-Chancellor. So what have you done so far that you need to scratch the sleeves now? – You seem to have found yourself in a deep sleep or in a blockade! [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Then studies are prepared such as this highly interesting study, which brings an economic comparison and in which it comes out that Austria is so bad to lie down! Do you know, and then the negation, not just how you deal with Parliament, Mr. Federal Chancellor and highly esteemed members of the government: It is weary to set up committee dates here. Well, what do you want to put to the committees if this government does not work or only works very sporadically? It is only until a meeting of the Committee is held, precisely because there are no initiatives by the “largest” social minister of this government you have named! That's where I tell you what's particularly ticky. We will put our concepts on the table once, Mr Bundeskanzler, and we will no longer be able to record them via the TV camera because you will no longer be visible, because we already have so many concepts on the essential points: whether this is pension harmonisation, whether it concerns health, whether it is tax reform or whether it is a business package. [[Abg. Schöls: A dangerous threat!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Because they're not there!]] There are the concepts on the table that you are not interested in because you are overly and arrogantly sitting in this government and staying in a state of indifference. That's really your attitude! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Right is what the “Kronen-Zeitung” wrote in a comment as a bowl’s opinion at the beginning of this week – I quote –: “We stay in the government, we don’t bring anything together, but we do.” Further down, it says – in turn quote –: “And bowl rules by not ruling. He's out. There he is great.” What does this have to do with a government programme? What basis of work is this to work for Austria? – That is why I said that Iffland-ring charges you for a special acting performance, if you say that with a loyal eyebeat, all this is happening only for Austria. But there the Austrians will thank for what is happening here, and above all for what is not happening here! Many people in this country recognize this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This brings us to a point that is particularly important to me in this regard. Now we are slowly beginning to swirl the bulge towards the Foreign Ministry, so that the foreign minister on the government bank can hardly be recognized. But let us take a short look at what you really have to do at the foreign policy or at the European level. As I tell you, you have – and we have pointed out several times – had the opportunity to initiate steps within the framework of the Italian Presidency to ensure that there is a European growth initiative. With no help was Austria the engine here! If you make yourself here and tell us how “motory” Austria is on the road everywhere, and then we ask if that’s true, then it comes out regularly that you’re at best silent spectators, but only where it’s about posts, getting mint and otherwise not doing anything for Austria at this level. It would have been important, however, for this growth initiative to have been at European level, because it has an impact on employment and location security in combination with national growth initiatives, and because this is crucial for the economy. But it seems to be indifferent to you. That's where I have to tell you: I think this is a very big failure, and of course your conception of nothingness is also responsible for it. Or: I know that there have been three or four transport ministers since February 2000. Where has a solution to the transit problem been achieved? Mr Vice-Chancellor, you are now, I believe, fourth in line. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Gorbach.]] Yeah, it's bubbling, but from the results, I have to tell you: In reality, it's pathetic! There is no longer talk about anti-atomic policy, and where our important and inclusive role is in the area of enlargement, as well as the national preparations, you have no figures, no data, no facts on the table today! Now I do not want to tell you any more – and this is a special failure – as far as the entire research, scientific and, above all, university area is concerned. I can only point to publications in magazines and newspapers: Study fees are paid, but for the students nothing has changed – queues stand, you don't get to the exam, it's a disaster! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: It's gotten worse!]] Some introduction lectures are limited to 1,200 listeners. [[Abg. May. Molterer: And Broukal wants...! “Accessive restrictions” is the German word for this!]] There is an investment stop, at the Technical University electricity bills cannot be paid, in Salzburg in some places the water stands, it grows the mold and it crumbles from the ceilings. All of this is indifferent to you. I can list a whole list of what is happening at universities because you don't care about education policy. But you're embarrassing about the Arnold Schwarzenegger and pretending to be your candidate. He said: If saved, then not at the expense of education. – letter You can find this in your parent book, especially since California is already the tenth federal country in your opinion! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was also interesting what Mrs. Haubner said in the “Presse” of 22. In October, it said that it was not the right time to roll heads and then put new heads. That's where I ask you: When is it the right time? What's your party like, in your group? It should be heard that Minister Gehrer is tired of being a Foreign Minister. What's going on? Maybe you're a little tired, aren't you? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Strasser wants to become Foreign Minister!]] What is really in the background here? When is the next government reform? I can only tell you one thing: It has nothing to do with predictability and stability! With a party that says that it is the party of the middle, it has something to do only in one point: She's in the middle of the mud, she has to answer that, and you're the architect of this government structure!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8224	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Same time of speech: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8244	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Our clubman Willi Molterer, after the speech of Dr. Gusenbauer, said that his speech would have been the best proof that Dr. Gusenbauer had the right role in politics, namely the opposition role. – Mr Cap, I can only say one thing: With your speech you have confirmed this twice and triple! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is always amazing for me to see what a balled amount of negative energy one can impose, as it is possible to be totally blind on one eye, and how little confidence one has, Mr Cap, also in the performance of this country. One thing we've always said: That we had a positive current account last year, for the first time a positive trade balance, that is not only the success of the government, but above all the success of thousands of companies and many, many employees in the companies. These show how much the performance of this country is, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Cap! I would expect more respect for the capacity of millions of employees in Austria. Don't make the land bad! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You're doing bad!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I noticed two more things. First of all, I noticed the following – and there I continue with our clubman: He briefly addressed the relationship between ÖGB and SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen, have you noticed what Mr Gusenbauer said about the accusation that the SPÖ had no concept of pension harmonisation? – He said that the ÖGB had already presented a concept. That's where I ask you: Are SPÖ and ÖGB really identical, Mr Gusenbauer? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer:... total nonsense!]] Read the protocol! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You have said here that the ÖGB has already presented a concept. Mr Gusenbauer, you have not made a single constructive proposal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This is your method: deliberately saying the untruth!]] I would like – and I am speaking to President Vergestnich too – that, following this blamable vote, you come out here with regard to the Christian-social vice-presidents and, after today's statement by Gusenbauer, and emphasize that you will return to the over-participality of the ÖGB. Mr President, I think that would be necessary for this country. Let me say two words about the change in the Federal Government: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gradwell: Be glad you don't vote...!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor Gorbach, you know my sympathy, my appreciation and my trust in your person. I say here in the House but also: This trust and appreciation is based on the characteristics I have learned from Hubert Gorbach: Straightness, honesty, reliability, commitment, constant willingness to give the best – Mr Vice-Chancellor, these are the best conditions for successful government work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I would also like to say a word of thanks to Herbert Haupt – Herbert Haupt, a liberal great rock, I would say, an incredibly knowledgeable social minister! I say, however, inconspicuously: We sometimes suffer from this knowledge a bit, because each session takes a little longer when it spreads in full width, but we are ten times more like such a social minister than one, the main characteristic of which is to have a red party book and to be a union member. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I once – I don't give four-eye conversations again – asked Herbert Haupt: Why are you doing all this? The answer was meaningful – and this is remarkable –: I feel the responsibility I bear! Ladies and gentlemen! Such politicians need the country – politicians who say of themselves: I feel the responsibility I bear! – Mr Social Minister, my respect for this mental attitude! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: And then should he be exchanged?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I will return to the remarks made by my previous speaker, Mr Cap. He has tried hard to find a statistics in which something is not so perfect about the performance of this country and this government. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: It's not hard!]] Mr Cap, I know that it is always annoyed when you compare Austria and Germany. I'll tell you once again why we're doing this. First: We have no economic ties with any country in the world as closely as with Germany, and what is happening there has enormous consequences for us! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Take a look at the materials of the European Statistical Centre!]] Secondly, For the first time in the German-speaking region, we have both government constellations, here in Austria the bourgeois coalition, black and blue, and there red-green, and this comparison makes us sure, even if you do not like to hear it. No matter which statistics They point out that there have been three economic indicators for many years, where all the economists agree, namely economic growth, inflation/price increase and the labour market, and in all these three areas Austria is in an excellent position. While Germany stagnated, we have had a total growth of 2 percentage points in the last two years. This is not much, but without this government – ask the WIFI! – we would not even have had this growth. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Who?]] This is the difference between red-green in Germany and black-blue in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We were the most price-stable country in the EU this summer, and as far as the labour market is concerned, Germany has twice as high unemployment as we are. The German model would mean to us, Mr. Cap – I don't dare to say at all – that we have 450 000 to 500 000 unemployed in this country. Unimaginable! But in Germany it is so, under red-green! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: They also have other tasks to solve!]] A third number, Mrs Glavischnig, a number on budgetary policy: Under the leadership of Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser, who you are trying to defame with a dirty dome campaign, and together with Secretary of State Alfred Finz, we have succeeded in having a balanced budget again de facto this year, as in 2001 and 2002. We had a surplus of 0.3 percent in 2001, a minus of 0.1 percent in 2002, and I dare, with all due caution, to predict that we will have a budget deficit of less than 1 percent this year. This is a successful new financial and economic policy in the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But let me also say: We are aware that enormous challenges are facing us. The re-design of Europe and the European Union's eastern enlargement mean that opportunities and risks are being re-distributed economically. When I look at what is being done in the future, new EU accession countries – and I was only in such a weekend – to strengthen competitiveness, I have to say: I am glad that today both the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor the topic of future security is equal to location security, and economic location is also called work location, i.e. also taking jobs, income and social security so important. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I am very pleased to have the proposal to carry out a permanent monitoring of what our main competitors are doing in the area of tax policy. I'd almost extend it a little. My wish was always to have a group that practically makes a permanent assessment of location security, not only of tax policy, but also of flexibility, mobility and innovation. If we could achieve this, perhaps we would have an objective criterion for those policies for which this Federal Government stands: a policy of security of the future, a policy of site security, a policy on which we can say: The country is in good hands with this government. I invite the opposition to go away from a policy of the Hickhack and join a policy of security of the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8492	Mrs Glawischnig. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8510	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. former vice chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! We have now heard some very positive about Herbert Haupt. Both government parties have spread roses to the former vice chancellor. That's what I'm asking myself: Then why did you replace him as vice chancellor? Why is that? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have heard a statement today, namely that Herbert Haupt once said too much truth, namely, when he said that the economic policy of the Federal Government failed. He has agreed to a choir of national leaders who somehow believe that the Federal Government is a disaster, that the Federal Government has been removed and – exactly! – economic policy has failed. Is that the reason? I don't know. I have another explanation that might be discussed, and it has more to do with the Austrians, namely the elections in Tyrol and Upper Austria. The signal sent by voters there was very clear, namely that the course of the blue-black Federal Government is no longer wanted by voters in Austria, that this project has died and that German Chancellor Schüssel has lost massive confidence. Only more than 23 percent want to see him as chancellor. They are now trying to revive this dead project in homeopathic doses, with Hubert instead of Herbert. I mean, that can't be done, it can't even work with a heart transplant anymore. I mean, black and blue has clearly failed, and you are now facing the scrapping of this policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I don't mean either that the sentences, rhetoric or clarity, with which Herbert Haupt sometimes tried to express himself, was the reason for the failure in Upper Austria and Tyrol, but I think it was politics. It is manifestly the policy of this federal government and also the policy of the FPÖ, that was not Herbert Haupt alone. FPÖ has seen dramatic collapses in Upper Austria and Tyrol, and that has been a very clear signal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals, with your votes the interceptors have finally been decided, with your votes a pension reduction reform has finally been decided, with your votes the Voest has been driven into a completely unnecessary privatisation, and now you get the bill presented for it! With this reform of government, you are trying to get back to the situation in some way, but it is the wrong way, because Hubert is not enough instead of Herbert. In essence, this was a completely different orientation for Austria, and you should think about its course of content and not exchange its first name! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But what's going on now? I have listened with interest and curiosity today, which will be announced for the next few months, and something we already know, namely the favour of a tax reform, has once again been presented as the most important project of a vice chancellor. This was the most important project of the then vice chancellor and the head of state. But what has become of it, we see: It has become new elections. The FPÖ has lost two thirds of its electorate, and you have not made the tax reform to this day. I don't know if this is a successful course you should continue. If I hear that a working group is to be set up, a working group – according to the motto: If I don't know any more, I'll start a working group! – to analyse international development in Europe, which is already being sold as a success, I must say: That's very little! I must say that this is not even a consensus in the government, because the Federal Chancellor has just said that it is a very interesting proposal. So you didn't even get through with this working group, Mr. New Vice-Chancellor! [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: We do that!]] But the dramatic thing is that you come back with a concept called flat tax and essentially one means less taxes for the rich! [[Abg. Wattaul: Wrong! That's flat taxes!]] That's where I ask you: Is this really your solution, where you said a few months ago, that the lower income areas, which would have to relieve the beneficiaries of the smallest income, would have to bring relief to those who have now paid the most? Flat tax means 25 percent for all, which in turn means the same: less taxes for the rich! So it's, it's really sorry! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! Ask Professor Van der Bellen!]] A very interesting proposal for a party that once made itself strong for the “little man ” and the“ little woman. ” [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Where are we now? Hubert instead of Herbert! I listened with interest to your speech and have to say the following: Although the former vice-channer has sometimes done a little harder to get something to the point, he has said something concrete here and there. You didn't say anything concrete today! This was a collection of common places, of squares, a representation of international development, a blablabla, so I have no idea what will actually change with your taking up office. On the contrary: If you are talking about your own area, namely the ÖBB, then it becomes clear that you do not see the signs of time and continue to insist on continuing your decomposition course, your demarcation course. An example just: If you say that a quarter of the employees are to be separated from the ÖBB, I ask you: What do you think about how this will affect the offer? Does that mean less road or more street? I mean, the bill's very simple: That means more road and less rail! What does it mean if a finance minister has not yet given a firm commitment to financing infrastructure projects? So I have to say, I have not heard anything new today from you in this respect, and also from other policy areas, in fact, nothing encouraging, so that I could imagine that this would make something better. Now also a few sentences on the ÖBB: To double the toad means no more track and less road, but exactly the opposite. If If you continue this systematic hunger policy, you will no longer be taken seriously at European level. The transit problem They do not solve it, nor do they solve all the other problems! The Federal Chancellor today spoke about EU reform and constitutional reform, which he did last time. – Mr Bundeskanzler! I would also like to ask you a question, because you have forgotten many important issues: What happened to EURATOM? Is it so important that each country has its own Commissioner that the questions of the substance, namely the redesign of transport policy, the redesign of anti-atomic policy, are addressed to the European nuclear exodus? – I haven't heard a single word about this today. [[Abg. May. Molterer: All this has been explained in the last main committee!]] I would also like to address other topics that might be quite relevant to this Federal Government if already mentioned generation justice and youth policy and Mr. Stummfully try to compare with Germany again and again, and ask you: Please focus your eyes on Austria and on the problems we have here! 38 127 young people between the ages of 19 and 24 have no work at the end of October – that is, at the present time. That's where I ask you: You don't care? – I would You really ask: Stop comparing what is going on well, bad and so on in other countries, but take care of what you were elected for – obviously but no longer elected – to solve the problems in Austria, at least look at them and take them seriously! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I say it again: 38 127 young people without work! – these are almost 10 percent more than last year, which is 55 percent more than in 2000. These young people pay the bill for the 2000 pension reform, which is to raise the retirement age. But we have a problem not only in the field of youth unemployment, but also in training places. All these are topics on which the Vice-Chairman today has not lost a word and which he will not, in essence, care about. But there are other problems that need to be addressed. Keywords: Economic impulses. In this House tomorrow, you will reject a request from the Greens – you have already done so in the Committee – to boost the economy with impetus for climate change and job creation in Austria – a concept that works very well and that many countries are already carrying out. We have a problem with Kyoto, we have a problem with climate protection, we have very high unemployment, in the construction industry it looks very bad, and there is the question: Why not start with this project, namely to link climate change and job creation? – No, no reorientation, classical voting, that’s your way! [[Abg. Großruck: Wrong!]] I know that the “successful” reform course will continue, yes, but very successful is not your success course, and I think the voters have understood it very well, because they have already given a rejection in Upper Austria and in Tyrol of this Federal Government, but the voters will do so in all the forthcoming elections. Hopefully the next National Council election will come soon! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8666	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Bleckmann. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8685	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! It's nice that the colleagues in social democracy are worried and saying that it's wrong that the vice chancellor – the liberal vice chancellor – is Herbert Haupt. It's nice that you're worried like this, just, you forget one: He himself has made this decision as a federal party, he himself takes responsibility for it, and he is ready for change. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] On the other hand, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, stand for a standstill, for blockade, for opposition. That's what you stand for and what you're working for! You're not ready for change! But the only constant and the only stable in the world – and you know that – is the change! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They also know that we cannot change the past, but the only thing we can change is the future, and who else is more suitable for it than the Minister for the Future Hubert Gorbach, who is here in a new team in the Freedom Party and in the government is taking part in the future. That's why we have a new team! We liberals start with a new division of tasks – with a distribution on multiple shoulders, because in difficult times it is now necessary to carry out a burden distribution. We liberals have understood the signal of the population, we cannot change the voters, but we must change ourselves. We have therefore introduced changes which will also follow other changes, namely content. But we will not adapt to the greens, because you do not need to worry, we will not be for drug sharing or for Marxism and other things, but we will position ourselves in terms of content and return to our basics and values. But those who have no interest in changes here in this House are you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy. I've already said it: They stand for standstill, for blockade and for opposition! You have no interest in any reforms in Austria. It is you who are responsible for the fact that there has been such a reform in Austria and still exists today. The only noticeable change and renewal that you have once carried out was the change in the party name from socialist to social democratic, and this too has been a long time ago. What you can do, and what you have expected is a headrolling. – The heads have remained, there has been a new position within the liberal government team. Headrolling, that's what you can do, and that's what you've shown, for example, when you said, for example, in your then very unhappy chancellor climate, that's what you've done, and you've let heads roll. That is the way you are doing, and not how the current liberal government team is doing! We have demonstrated our will to change with this government reform and we want to carry out a dynamic renewal to optimize reform work. A negative example of a missed, necessary, important government transformation shows us the red Vienna, where there is a city councillor responsible for the Lainzer scandal, who is responsible for the fact that those who are to be cared for in Vienna no longer feel certain that they are afraid, but who says that she sees no responsibility or any reason to go. This is really not the way you should take responsibility! You should also tell her: It would be time for a change, it would be important to take on responsibility in Vienna instead of intervening and saying: It's all right, it's all right for the people to care for in Vienna! – The SPÖ troupe is bunking, cemented, the FPÖ with its FPÖ team is re-positioning – that's the difference! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] What you, ladies and gentlemen, are doing about social democracy is old politics with old long heads. You are – and we will tell you that, even if you can't hear it anymore – responsible for debt policy, you are responsible for the fact that there have been a lot of debt in Austria and there are still today, because such a huge debt mountain cannot be dismantled within a very short time. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You always say the same thing!]] They are responsible for a policy at the expense of taxpayers, at the expense of young people, at the expense of Austrians and at the expense of the next generation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, are responsible for this debt increase, even if you can't hear it anymore! Mr Matznetter, you are the financial speaker, and I am therefore telling you: If you had said it at the time, you would have done better in your area of responsibility at that time! – You nod, you say: Yes, you could have done better! - Yes, but you didn't do it better! We liberals make politics for Austria and for a good future in Austria, with reforms that are necessary for a positive future, and we can point to successes. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I repeat it, even if you can't hear it anymore: We have introduced and implemented child care money – something you do not even want to challenge and abolish today, but we have changed the maximum – we have implemented the “handling” – the equality of workers and employees – something that social democracy has talked about for decades and has never implemented it, we have implemented it – and we will adopt a new asylum law tomorrow. In this regard, we have heard the concerns of the people, and we can say that the new asylum law bears the liberal manuscript, even if you do not like it, but it is important for us because we take the concerns of the people seriously. The aim is to speed up asylum procedures, to ensure that there is no use of asylum and that there is therefore an intensification. This is important for us liberals, and that is why this decision is very important tomorrow. They seem to have overlooked the fact that there is already a first step in the tax reform, which has already been decided here in this House. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I emphasize: The tax reform, the first step, has been decided, namely a burden on the smallest income and enterprise sector! A discharge of almost 1 billion €! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The biggest tax burden!]] A burden, Mr Matznetter. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But you seem to have not heard what that meant, because in any claim you have made, you require €10,000 a year to be tax-free! – This is a good demand, and we have already implemented it with this first stage of the tax reform, namely €14 500 tax-free. That... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Tax-free is net for gross, colleague! I've studied that too. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That is gross for net, colleague. That means: 14 500 € tax-free per year! We've implemented what you're demanding. This seems to have gone away from you, because you have not voted in favour of good and sensible measures here in the House! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: You voted against it!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: You forget the burdens you have decided!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is still much to be done for this government. We must implement and implement the harmonisation of pension systems. This also involves the heavy-worker regulation, with which we are finally doing what you have promised for decades, namely that it will be a heavy-worker regulation. That's what we're gonna do. We also need to give security to people in Austria. This is an important step. We also need to continue the tax reform with the advantage of individual measures. At the beginning of the discussion, we said that we would call for individual measures to be taken as a next step in the tax reform, and that is what we will implement. You'll see: That'll go faster than you believe! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What?]] In the long term, we want the flat-tax system, namely a flat, fair, fair tax, a system in which all pay less taxes. That's what it's all about! All should pay less taxes in a fair and fair system. It is about finally eliminating the system you have created and implementing a fair and just system in Austria. We liberals are working on a positive future for a life-worthy and beautiful Austria. Do not always regret everything sick, but work constructively!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8872	Ladies and gentlemen! Four times five minutes wouldn't go out. Four times four minutes plus applause and change of speech. Mr Nürnberger has now come to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8894	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I am only glad that Mrs Bleckmann, in her passage about government reform, laughed most herself, because she apparently did not take what she told us seriously either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is to be new to this reform of government has not yet been able to tell us a speaker about the government parties! The speech, Mr Bundeskanzler, which you have held today, has been heard here three or four times, it is always the same! But something is new: In the FPÖ, there have been two that are almost at the front and have indicated the clock, now we soon have a dozen! – The new vice chancellor has said he has the captain strips. Mr. Haupt is still the party leader, or at least he believes it himself. The head of state of Carinthia has, as we have heard, announced that the new party leader Haubner is talking to the state party owners. Now I'm wondering, If there's a new one, where's the old one? There is also a Clubobmann Scheibner. – Your future role, as we saw in the “time in the picture” yesterday, is that you can only interpret what the head of state has stated. I liked the expression “Press Spokesman” for head of state Haider from Carinthia, because he is the actual head of this government, namely the entire government, because the Chancellor must also do what he is told from Carinthia. Ladies and gentlemen! The following was awfully blamble: The Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor are going out to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, dementing and saying: No comment, but at the same time Mr. Landeshuptmann Haider explains what government reform it has been. Today, many roses have been spread to the Minister of Social Affairs and former Vice-Cancecian, and it has been said that he remains a Minister of Social Affairs. – New Mr Vice-Chancellor, this is very close to a dangerous threat, as you have said! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bleckmann.]] Even if you do not want to hear it, Mrs Bleckmann, I will nevertheless say what Mr Social Minister has done in his previous work, in telegram style. So far, he has not even made himself famous as a post broker for FPÖ officials. A former head of the office from Carinthia, and then it turned out that she was not even Magistra, but had more salary than the Federal Chancellor. A press spokesperson from Ms Sickel had to give head a leading position. The crowning of the post office was probably the order of Gaugg. That was the shine! For the main association, the former Vice-Chancellor Head promised us a new economical and cheap structure, but then he and the entire government were not even able to submit a constitutional law to Parliament. The government parties have here passed a law on which everything has been repealed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Minister Chief has said that costs should be saved, but in reality the costs have multiplied! Today, five directors are sitting there, and inflated bodies are determined. He has brought a director – and with that he has proved “great skill” again – from Carinthia. He should've put the chip card in place, but he hasn't succeeded until today. I remember his flops: Ambulance fee, accident pension tax, massive deterioration of pensions. [[Abg. Scheibner: He wasn't!]] I can only say to the ÖGB model: Mr. Haupt, please take the lead in Max Walch: Read, think, and then talk! The ÖGB model cannot have read Mr. Haupt, or at least not like Mr. Klubob-man Molterer, for he has invited us to cooperate there, and has therefore done something good to the model. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know what a reasonable government transformation would have been? – If the former vice chancellor had told us in all clarity – as he always wanted it to be formulated – that he would withdraw from all offices! Do you know, Federal Chancellor, what a truly innovative government reform would have been? – You have a Finance Minister who has a huge problem with the zeros behind the comma. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The zeros behind the comma are not so important!]] If you had exchanged the Minister of Finance and had given the people of this country a new Minister of Finance, who knows and can expect figures, that would have been a service to Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8973	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. Same speaking time of 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8991	Values Members of the Federal Government! High Parliament! Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, if you mention that this government did not give any answers and did not find any solutions for people in this country to shape the country's future, I say to you: You're rare here, apparently you didn't know what this government was doing! I think much more that you really do not find answers to your inconsistency and inconsistency regarding your ideas about the future of Austria! I believe or am convinced that this government will continue to have courage to reform in the future in order to make this country future-oriented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I also say: This reform of government will continue this courageous path! This is, in fact, the guarantee for the future location of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am convinced that the person of the new Vice Chancellor Hubert Gorbachein is a real professional. I am very glad that he has taken over this office to work with us on this right reform project. He has proved in Vorarlberg and now also as an infrastructure minister that he can. But I also thank Herbert very much – he is unfortunately not here at the moment – for I can say one thing, especially because of my responsibility for the peasantry: He is a real professional in politics with great knowledge. We have seen this in the BSE crisis and in the hormone scandal, for which there have also been insecure statements from the socialist side, but he has acted with professionalism and thus can avoid great damage to Austria's agriculture. I believe that we need knowledge and strength in this Federal Government, especially for the future and in view of the challenges we face – EU enlargement, harmonisation of pension systems, health reform! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig says you shouldn't make comparisons with other countries, I'll answer: I have to do it! Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig! Do you know why I have to do it? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: You can do it! But look at the problems in Austria! But you can hide them!]] Only on the basis of a comparison can you see that in Austria we are making a stable and predictable policy for the people. You'll see! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I'll give you a comparison. Country match Austria – Germany concerning agricultural investment: An Austrian average holding has 17 hectares of surface area. Net investment by Austrian enterprises increased on average by 31 percent from 2000 to 2002. Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig, the net investment in the average farm plus 31 percent! [[New call of the abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] German example: Germany is known to have a red-green government, and in the same period, due to the red-green policy in Germany, there was a minus of 78 percent in the area of net investment in German farms! – I thank our Federal Government, our Federal Chancellor and our Minister for Agriculture for their stable, calculable policy for rural areas and for consumers in our country! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have to say: I think it is very strange how politics has just been conducted by socialists! These hatreds and this envy complex are frightening. I therefore ask you to: Stop this way! Don't worry about people!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9059	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9080	Dr. Gusenbauer claims that Styria is an emergency area. – Obviously, he has no information about what a future economic location Styria is!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9107	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9126	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Social Affairs remains the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Transport remains the Minister of Transport, and what is even worse: Government policy should remain the same as government policy. And that's what you call a new beginning?- Oh, my God! I've been looking at the government bank all the time and thinking: What's changed? – The only thing I can see is that after 17 years, for the first time, the vice chancellors wear a mustache again. [[Abg. Steibl: But that's very deep!]] That's the only thing that's changed! If that's a fresh start, I'll tell you: Gentlemen of the government bank, let the beards grow, then Austria finally has a harmless reason to laugh at you, and not always the reasons you otherwise give us with your policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: I feel discriminated against as an executioner!]] If you promise a new beginning, then you usually mean an objective and human new beginning. [[Abg. May. Molterer: I declare my solidarity with colleagues Van der Bellen!]] See, with shaving I should have really hit a wounded point! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Steibl: On the matter!]] So there is something else that really interests you, namely the beards of the ruling man! – If you are so interested in politics and the concerns of the Austrians, this would be a real progress! What would be a new reform? – A new start would be an ecological tax reform, but not the introduction of a flat tax for rich people! An ecological tax reform would finally be an attempt to establish a basic guarantee for young generations in difficulty and to secure new labour markets socially. It would be an attempt to use immigration intelligently and thus support pension systems. This would be a serious attempt to combat poverty in Austria, rather than simply bearing in mind that the Social Report states that more than 100,000 children in Austria, that is to say, certainly innocent, live under the poverty line. Another way would be to abolish the obligation to do so and finally eliminate this senseless pressure for young men. – That would be a fresh start! That is what at least some have expected of you today, Mr Bundeskanzler! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition, there is the need to try out a new human beginning even with the German Federal Government: There is only one example, and this example is the Minister of Finance. He is the problem of this government. We had – at least as far as I can remember – not yet a member of a federal government who was caught in the course of a continued violation of the Constitution and in terms of which it is permitted to refer it to the suspension in a large procurement process, and which is suspected of the abuse of office, tax evasion, gift acceptance and a number of other offences. Ladies and gentlemen! A finance minister or a member of the government of this kind has not yet existed in this Republic! Federal Chancellor! You wouldn't have had the job of explaining why you're taking Hubert and downgrading Herbert today! I would rather have You have had the task of explaining how an objective new beginning looks and how you want to start convincingly with a new finance minister! If you are unable to reorganise the government, it is hoped that the Austrian population will soon be given the opportunity to make a total transformation of this federal government. I hope that this will be the case sooner than later! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9233	The next item is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Same speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9251	Ladies and gentlemen! Following Mr Pilz's speech, I must say: Opposition remains opposition! These debates on government work, which we often hold, are always similar, namely: The opposition sparks a ritual of reflexiveness, which scares, sluggishes and also makes fun of it, instead of finally recognizing what is going on positively in Austria in the international comparison! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Federal Chancellor has already said it: We have one of the lowest inflation rates, and we have a trade surplus. That is something that is really huge today! We have good growth. We really have a better position in terms of budget adjustment than many other countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Van der Bellen! You said: Let us not always look at the Federal Republic of Germany! – I do believe that you are not right because there is red-green in it! But we should look at it because there are similar structures there. In the Federal Republic of Germany, under a red-green federal government, a real social cold is practiced, but not in Austria! In Germany, really crazy, incisive measures are being taken at the expense of pensioners and poor people. In Austria we have prevented all this with our government policy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! They were repeatedly invited to cooperate in the reform concept, again and again today. For example, the new vice chancellor Gorbach has offered you to discuss government activities with you. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Oils.]] You laugh! But maybe it's really better if you don't make your suggestions at all. – I am now quoting a journalist who referred to the SPÖ method: “Forward, we have to go back to the past.” Pui are this understanding of privatization, puii is globalisation, puui are foreign participations in Austria, puui are profound reforms (from pension to ÖBB). You probably do not want to have any such involvement! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] If Mr Obmann Gusenbauer has criticised today that the government is not responding to the challenges of time, I would like to say: With your policy you would move us back to a time that we still have in very, very unpleasant memory. We still have to bear the consequences of this waste policy with a billion-severe deficit today. But not only “forwards to the past!” is your brand, but also political inconsistency. I will prove this to you immediately on the basis of the following example: ==References== In October, financier Matznetter said that the social security rate must be reduced from 14.9 to 9.5 percent. The next day, Mr. Obmann Gusenbauer is rowing in the other direction, saying: No, there should be no reduction! In order to abolish the housing promotion, Gusenbauer say yes, Burgstaller no and Haider from Upper Austria no. It is similar with regard to the restriction or abolition of the care allowance. Further progress is being made with the entry places and so on and so on. Your policy really does not seem reliable, and I am glad that this blue-black government has to do the work in Austria and is not bothered by your proposals anyway! I would like to say the following: It is always complained that the major reforms have not yet been launched by the government. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] - I'll be at the end of the sentence. You've been putting the big chunks in front of you for decades. The restructuring of the budget deficit, the reform of the Federal Pensions and the Health System, you have not begun everything, and therefore there are such scandals as in the Lainz nursing home, with which we still have to deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9349	Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to note just how it was possible to distribute the speaking times at once. Thank you for the discipline! The sitting will now be suspended and resumed at 1.15 p.m. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9381	Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to take a seat. I'll start the interrupted session again. Mrs Bures, the next speaker, spoke. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9411	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! It is a pity that the members of the government obviously do not find it worth the effort to follow the further debate. [[Call the liberals and the ÖVP:And the SPÖ delegates?]] It's about the government statement. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where's the club tour? They don't want to listen from your own ranks!]] [[Abg. Wittauer: That's where you want to blame us?]] [[Unrest with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think it is extremely rude for you to roar at the speaker's desk. This is very rude, ladies and gentlemen. Today we have heard from you the second declaration of government in just one year, a declaration of government of the desired coalition of the Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is good if the government wants to make a statement! This is the future of Austria!]] Today we have experienced the second declaration of government in which there has not been a single approach to an alternative in the field of people's important issues for the future. Unfortunately, they have not provided a single constructive approach today, although it would have been so important for Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, we have only experienced that there has obviously been a change of title or a seat back within the FPÖ government team. Unfortunately, today's balance is nothing new: nothing becomes clearer, in reality everything remains with the old. The sad thing is that of these eight months of black and blue government, there is actually only a balance of failure. I recall the ambulance charges and the fact that we have seen a dramatic increase in unemployment in Austria. Obviously, this government intends to continue this balance sheet of failure to damage Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The government continues to be characterised by instability and stagnation, and do you know who is responsible for it? [[Abg. Wittauer: Where?]] – That gentleman, who should actually sit here, namely, Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel! He is responsible for our having an unstable government because he is obviously not personally able to actually live partnership as well. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wittauer.]] I am telling you that because we are looking at the partners of German Chancellor Schüssel in the past. What did his first partner say? - 1995: Franz Vrnitzky. After just six months of partnership with Franz Vranitzky, Wolfgang Schüssel deliberately broke new elections from the fence. [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] What did his second partnership look like? – 1999: Viktor Klima. Climate was fooled and lost by Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Ask the Nuremberger!]] The Federal Chancellor has formed his black and blue wish coalition. Who was the third partner of Wolfgang Schüssel in 2000? – Susanne Riess-Passer called her. After only two years, she failed in the partnership with Wolfgang Schüssel, and we already had new elections in Austria. His fourth partner, Herbert Haupt, has the grace to sit here today. After just eight months, the Federal Chancellor succeeded that Herbert Haupt is still sitting here today, but in fact politically is at the end. And today Wolfgang Schüssel makes himself and says: I don't have it easy. – In fact, the Federal Chancellor must be addressed to: That's ridiculous. What do you mean, he doesn't have it easy? It is to be concluded that he is obviously unable to enter political partnerships and that he is indeed the trouble spots in this government. Wolfgang Schüssel is not capable of dialogue, Wolfgang Schüssel is not capable of co-operation. You, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Gorbach, will still feel this. There will be Chancellorlob in public, but you will have zero political room for movement. This is the evil game Wolfgang Schüssel will also play with you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have already experienced it. You weren't even praised as vice chancellors when you just correctly raised the demand that it be with 1. A tax reduction is expected to occur in January 2004. What was the result? – The Federal Chancellor has asked the Minister for Finance to guide you: That's not possible. There is no tax reduction of 1. January 2004, although it would be so important for Austria. The Minister of Finance has said that the bag is too good. They have zero political room for movement, and this game, which Wolfgang Schüssel is driving here, is actually to the detriment of Austria. The SPÖ has a reform concept that SPÖ has because you have no alternatives to offer political alternatives. [[Abg. Wittauer: Where? Where? That's just constituency!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We offer the “ Chance Red-White-Red” project and invite the people to dialogue, unlike you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9582	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9610	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High Parliament! If Mr Bures says that the government has no future issues, I ask if you have any. A piece of paper is not enough. It is bad enough for Members of the Gusenbauer to call the Styria as an emergency area, although we are at best there, although in many things we are far ahead. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: ( towards SPÖ) That's ridiculous!]] I can only tell you: The SPÖ depletes regions and people and has no future themes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But now on real topics of the future that move us and which we also want to move. One of the main social objectives of this government work is to promote the family and improve the compatibility of family and work. This has been taken into account so far with the introduction of the childcare allowance for all, the increase in family allowances and child care allowances for multiple births. This wouldn't have been possible with you from the SPÖ. They did not have any better models and did not agree at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This ÖVP/FPÖ government with Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel at the top is the guarantee of stability, reliability – yes – and security. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is the untruth!]] You can't do that with a smile, but you can take it seriously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! We know that Austria is not important to you from the time of the EU sanctions. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] - Yes, I do. We want to expand our good standard of living in Austria. However, this is only possible with reforms. In the course of the pension reform, for example, the anchoring of family and women-specific measures was undertaken, which will have a lasting impact on the next generation. Ladies and gentlemen! To remember: The SPÖ did not go along with the pension reform, although it clearly knows that there is a need for reform. The German colleagues or the Italians show this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mr Silhavy, I've been waiting a long time. I seem to have met your nerve again, tell the truth. We've chosen the better way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Restart means making forward-looking policies. Family topics have been in good hands only in this government and will be even more in the future. [[Abg. Silhavy: You can see this at the childcare facilities!]] – The childcare facilities could have already changed a socialist women's minister Helga Konrad. You know that. [[Abg. Silhavy: Kindergarten billions!]] The kindergarten billion was only used to expand buildings, but SPÖ Landesrat Flecker has not even spent this money. In the Styria still 200 000 s are broken, which the SPÖ has not used. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think we should look forward to further reforms in the future, and the SPÖ is once again cordially invited to participate – of course also the Greens – in making decisions on parental leave, for example in the education package. [[Abg. Silhavy: You just need to present something, then you have our participation!]] We have also presented something very reasonable at the parental age, and we are willing to introduce part-time from 20 employees until the seventh year of the child's life; with right of return despite the tense situation on the labour market. [[Abg. Silhavy: What about those who have under 20 employees?]] I think we should make an alliance between the family and the economy into which we enter with new working time models, with tax deductibility for childcare in the family and with the expansion of qualified childcare places. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Courage for responsibility is needed, for only this is the way forward-looking policy is feasible. [[Abg. Silhavy: But there you have to take money in your hand!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9785	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9831	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Alt-Vizekanzler! Mr. Neu-Vizekanzler! [[Abg. Wittauer: I like the grey tie!]] In a sober summary [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Hopefully sober!]] Where are we? – The titlerochade is to open the new beginning, announced by the “Press Spokesperson of the Wörthersee”. More could not be learned so far. That's not exciting, it's not even exciting when the opposition finds out. The question arises only: What new beginning is being spoken of here all the time? What new beginning? [[Abg. Wittauer: A new beginning with freedom of reform policy!]] I can't see anyone, although I agree – let's go into the real problems that Austria has – that not everything is bad. It's not all bad at all in Austria, the question is sometimes just: Despite or because of the Federal Government? But I would point out that there have been measures that we have also decided unanimously. The Wifo, for example, in order to address the economic sector, is now explaining that parts of the economic packages have taken hold, namely those in the fiscal field which we have jointly decided. This is obviously proof that what the opposition proposes, namely other fiscal policy measures, cannot be so wrong, i.e. preferred tax reform, investment programmes. Of course. What's going on? - Nothing! And who was right? – Main, even though he's no longer Vice-Chancellor: This economic course has actually failed, namely that of Bartenstein and Grasser; that has been mentioned. That is why I think it is very remarkable, because I also want to deal with the problem – unfortunately, it has to be called that – of the Minister of Finance. In reality, one could think that the whole thing is a huge distraction maneuver. A continuous scandalous chain of at least five scandals is supposed to distract the Minister of Finance from even doing what he should actually do, namely doing financial policy. Nothing's happening here, too! It's just sitting out here and diving through. You learned that together, he brought it with him from the FPÖ. But it is also a failure of economic and financial policy that needs to be diagnosed and that alone would justify withdrawal. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: A matte applause!]] But not enough with it. Parliament's misguided budget data has also been included in this picture. The arch is now stretching right up to Parliament's misguidedness as far as its personal details are concerned. Mr Khol, because we have a more or less fruitful discourse here: The report of the Inconsistency Committee to all Members of Parliament, to all 183 Members, has included both Black Blue I and Black Blue II in the report of the Minister of Finance that he had no shares. He has informed all of us, in 183 freely elected Members, and also you, as you are sitting there from the ÖVP. And then he says to the public: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – At first, the problem is not so much that he has any, the problem is that he has more or less deliberately misinformed you and the whole Parliament. And that can't be tolerated! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This cannot be tolerated, even with the indication that the law is so complicated. They constantly regret the complicated flood of law. I can only tell you that the relevant § 3 of the Incompatibilities Act, a constitutional provision, is as simple as rare. The Minister of Finance has committed a qualified breach of law and publicly states that the infringement could not actually be a formal error. Excuse me! Poor Republic! We are not going to get far with such finance ministers. That is also a reason. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We still have the opportunity to debate today about all that has now been, from the ÖIAG to overburdened consulting agreements and award-making gaps. But what I notice is that there may still be more interest in the fact that Mr Finanzminister remains in his office, and perhaps not only on the basis of more correct motives. First of all – I have to address this unfortunately – the Federal Chancellor. Firstly, politically, of course, because the Minister of Finance simply has to play the blitz, because he has not suffered any more for a long time. But it's getting worse. It is the Lord Federal Chancellor himself who has violated the law of incompatibility when all of us count his statements together. He has given several interviews in his I government since the beginning of the Chancellor's Office, in which he has repeatedly stated to the public that he has only a few domestic shares, but at least several foreign shares. Okay. He is supposed to report it to Parliament, not to be false. I accuse him of this, because he simply leaves the ground of materiality with this kind; and he should not gnaw the opposition when it reveals it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9926	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9960	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we heard a statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and by Mr Vice-Chancellor, and these statements are very distrustful of the opposition – I take that from its contributions. But precisely the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that this declaration of government is being mistrusted by you proves that Hubert Gorbach and Wolfgang Schüssel are on the right track. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Why?]] Mr Nürnberger! They had the forehead to get out of here and accuse the FPÖ Postenchacher. I can tell you: Someone who has so much butter on his head as the SPÖ on this subject should approach this topic a little more humble. Mrs Bures! It's not enough for you to step out here and just wave around with propaganda brochures. We would have liked to hear from you in terms of content from which we can see a clear alternative. [[Abg. Bures: They're in Parliament!]] This alternative of the opposition is not recognizable. [[Abg. Bures: Our proposals are in Parliament!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals entered the Federal Government in 2000 in order to enable a reform policy, because that was not possible in the years before, in the years of the great coalition. At the time, there was a responsible debt policy under the leadership of SPÖ, a structural rigidity and a perfect immobility of the system. There was therefore an urgent need for reforms here in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! This new policy of reform has only become possible through the accession of us liberals to the Federal Government. All the points that we have implemented so far are also points that you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, are now only more halfhearted. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] This federal government has rehabilitated the budget. This federal government has sent a balanced budget on the way, and no SPÖ government could ever reverse it. This federal government, with us, ladies and gentlemen, has decided to “recast” a measure in the social field, which no longer will make SPÖ politicians renegotiate. This federal government has also decided to grant children's money, and I am surprised today that there are now suddenly proposals for improvement on child benefit from the SPÖ, which has actually been massively opposed. [[Abg. Ollinger: She already has a beard, this story!]] Welcome to the club! We'd love to hear from you sooner. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government has also dealt with difficult points. This government has undertaken to secure pensions, and no other government, including your proposals, will be able to leave this path that we liberals have begun with the ÖVP. Nor can you decree that the population pyramid is reversed. This will not even be done by your great chairman Gusenbauer. Ladies and gentlemen! We still have enormous work to do in the framework of this coalition. This work is ahead of us and we want to put our energy into this work. We clearly have in front of us the rehabilitation of health care, an important issue that this government will demand as a whole and which we will address. [[Abg. Eder: You still have a lot of work in front of you!]] We have to do the harmonisation of pensions, we have a new way of bringing security policy and, in the interests of people, further modernising the country as we started in 2000. Ladies and gentlemen! There will also be measures in the field of taxation. With 1. The first stage of tax reform will be introduced in January 2004. 14 500 € are tax-free. This concerns 2.5 million Austrians, and I have not yet met a SPÖ politician who wants to reverse this. Profits not collected in the economic sector will only be taxed at half the rate. ==References== Sales tax date is not applicable. All these are decisions of this Federal Government, which have been taken by us liberals and which show a clear policy towards the future. The opposition is invited to participate in these important issues in the debate here in the National Council and not, as its great chairman has documented here this morning, simply to show a social-democratic Njet policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10078	Mr Mag, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. Chief. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10097	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions! High house! I have decided, as Vice Chancellor of the Republic of Austria, to place my office as Vice-Cancellor in Hubert Gorbach's hand and to concentrate again fully on the Ministry of Social Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! If, in today's debate, jobs in Austria have often been set in motion, I believe that Hubert Gorbachnun is the right Vice-Chancellor in this Federal Government, because his structural and infrastructure package has proved to have secured 0.7 percent of GDP growth last year and thus thousands of jobs in Austria, and that is good that way. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It was almost nice to hear today that from all the four political groups of the House came to my address almost praising words: from the side of the government parties without any thought, from the side of the opposition parties with the background of praising someone to make one immediately of the stuff that is now in the functions of this office. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties! I do not think you have done a good job in the eyes of the Austrians. These wish that all in this House will implement the interests of all Austrians and not, in the light of better knowledge, make it clear to someone who takes up his office – and who takes up a difficult office – from the outset. They will also receive the invoice presented by the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] You can laugh at it quietly. I know, especially as a party observer – and I am allowed to say this because of your laughter and intercession – that we and our party are not doing well at the moment. But my colleague, Mr Kummerer, will also be right if I say that in this government and in this future partnership, it is also so that the ferment of renewal has broken down as part of the renewal process. We will now proceed to make the ferment – the liberal manuscript – so strong in this renewal community that it is a future partnership and remains in the interest of all Austrians. And that's good, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They have refused to accept government responsibility on the part of Social Democracy in 1999. It is still the words of some of the social partners who were proud of not entering the government at the time. In the year 2002 in the government negotiations, you have again refused to take on responsibility for Austria with the 36 percent block minority here in the House. I am proud that my party, although it has become considerably weaker in the elections, has taken over the responsibility for Austria, and therefore with good conscience I pass on the stavet to Hubert Gorbachal's vice chancellor. It will implement what is necessary for this Republic for Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As a Social Minister, allow me also to speak on unemployment. If you look at the labour market data of the month of September, ladies and gentlemen, you will give me the right to: If there had not been the exorbitant growth of unemployment in Vienna, we would have cut off well not only in Europe but also in the long term. And with regard to youth employment in Austria, we have reached the turnaround in five federal states: more jobs for apprentices in apprenticeship training than apprentices looking for apprenticeships. It is different only in Vienna and in three other federal states. Make your own policy responsible and poster in Vienna You don't: What do I do with 1,000 apprentices?- Oh, my God! – Break your head on what you do with the apprentices! I have not seen a poster as helpless as that of the Social Democracy in Vienna for a long time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I will take care of the heavy worker model for early retirement in the next few weeks and months. It took 50 years, and no one from the area of BUAK, the building workers' holiday and handling fund, has come to the benefit of the hackler rule as a worker. This must finally end, and I will work on it as a Minister of Social Affairs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to draw your attention to the fact that in the spring of this year you fully promised the model of social partnership for the spring of this year. We are now at the end of October and are just ahead of the National Day of our Republic. I hope that, at least on this day, the social partners will join us in the dialogue on the harmonisation of pensions – as it is promised – otherwise, this government will have to solve this problem on its own for the future of Austria. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, will have no excuse that you would not have been invited to participate and participate. I would also like to point this out in detail today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Because you have accused me of the Constitutional Court of Justice of the main association over the last few days, I can say the following: I didn't make it easy. We have obtained scientific advice from renowned professors of Austrian universities – by the way also from those who believe that it is not in conformity with the Constitution regarding the project of the asylum law which is under discussion tomorrow; at the main association, he has expressed the opposite opinion, namely that the reform is constitutional. You see, therefore, that: A government is well advised not to rely on experts but on the rule of law. And in a rule of law, it is good that we have courts that then judge when there are different legal views – and not the experts on the media once and for all represent the other opinion. In a rule of law, it is good that there are highest courts. We will also, with Dieter Böhmdorfer, ensure that this rule of law is extended, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But I would like to thank you in this situation here and today for all of you who have worked with me in my capacity as Vice-Chancellor. I invite you all to continue working with me in my capacity as Minister of Social Affairs on a broad basis of all the political groups in this House. I should also like to thank the Federal Chancellor and his team in the Federal Government for their friendly reception and good cooperation. One thing has also become clear to me, ladies and gentlemen: The good in this republic are not those who reject responsibility, but those who win the future for Austria. Sometimes it takes years for the population to realize who it means well with her, but I am sure that in the future the earnings will be assessed differently than yesterday and before. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10232	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Dr. came up with a speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10250	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me turn to the Lord. Social ministers may say a word because he says that he is good and takes responsibility. – Minister of State! If you say that the problem of labour market policy in Austria is that there are so great problems in Vienna, please note that responsibility for this is given to the Federation and not to the city of Vienna! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Go!]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Blame for Vienna is also the federal government!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have heard a government statement by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor. The only reason for these speeches to have been made is the fact that now another vice chancellor has become. The only basis for this is that within the Freedom Party the realization that a new rider has to come for this horse or animal that is not riding. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What you already know everywhere else is that this animal is not to ride because it does not know who it is and where it wants to go: One wants to be in opposition, the other want to go to the government. And what you do is: They exchange the rider – and on this occasion also let the only veterinarian who might have helped go. This is the problem we are discussing today – and not a declaration of government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: There are enough examples of how the SPÖ deals with people!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I also wondered what the background is that transport minister Gorbach is now in this office. His professional past as an export merchant can be difficult. But after all, he was in Vorarlberg Landesstatthalter for a few years. And if you look at what “Statthalter ” means in the Duden, it is said to be“ deputy to a prince. ” The question here is: Is that perhaps why he was proposed by his party to this office? But in the end, the question is: For whom does he hold, for whom is he the deputy in this function, ladies and gentlemen? Let me say a third thing! I think that the Minister for Transport Gorbach is to a certain extent too. Acknowledgement deserves: He is the first freedom-based minister in this department, who has had the hope that he may really be bringing something forward – in contrast to his three liberal predecessors. But, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that he is now moving into the role of Vice-Cancellor and has to take care of all the queerels within this government – and in particular its party – necessarily means that he can no longer have the time he needs to be able to make a reasonable transport policy for Austria and the people living in that country, and the effort he has to drive for it. And this is the problem we have to complain about today. [[Abg. Wittauer: The Gorbach does not need your defense!]] Transport Minister Gorbach, for example, would need time to talk with his European counterparts in order to achieve a transitional solution to the transit agreement. It takes time, it costs commitment – and he can't do that if he has to take care of the queerels within his party at the same time. The same applies when it comes to actively representing Austrian interests in the area of a European Union growth initiative. And this is necessary for these projects to come and so they will be supported accordingly. It takes time and commitment from the Minister of Transport. [[Abg. Eder: Time he has none!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The decision that this Minister of Transport, who might have had the chance of really bringing something forward, unlike his predecessors, will now become Vice-Chancellor, is a bad decision! Let me say one last thing: Mr Bundeskanzler, you are also responsible for the fact that something goes further in this transport and technology sector. You are also responsible for the fact that even now, as Transport Minister Gorbach becomes Vice-Chancellor, something goes on there. I therefore do not understand why you put a Secretary of State in his house, who can only do one thing: slow down or prevent it. With a governor Kukacka, nothing will go on at all in the Ministry of Transport, and that is why this was a bad decision you informed us of today.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10352	Mr Haubner has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10370	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Eine, I think one thing is not quite fair: that you are setting up successes for Vienna, but that the failures caused by Vienna's urban policy are being passed on to the federal government. I don't think so! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Federal Government under Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel and under the new Vice-Chancellor Hubert Gorbach will continue its course, its reform work and its joy in working for the Austrian population, because the path is the only right one, and the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen, know this! The Austrian population supports the reform course of this federal government because long-term reforms are necessary to keep Austria viable and competitive. Others were long enough in government responsibility and could have given this course and started reforms, but there is a lot of courage and will to think and plan ahead in the long term. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues! One thing we must not forget: An attractive, dynamicly flexible economic location, such as Austria, can only exist under predictable conditions and conditions, because the numerous small and medium-sized enterprises, which eventually make up our location, need secure framework conditions that they can rely on and give them security in their economic life. Especially in times like this, there is already enough that is unstable and gives cause for concern. To do this, we need to look only at the other European countries: France, Italy, Germany – they are all more or less influenced by political and social unrest. These are no longer models. Or do we even take a look beyond the continent: The US budget deficit is $374 billion this year. This is the highest level there has ever been in the history of the USA. War, weak economics and fiscal sugar that the Bush government has distributed in recent years are a way that we do not think is recommended. [[Abg. Dr. Cap:... Iraq war!]] Let's not look at others, but let's look at ourselves! Although the measures of this government are not always popular, the Austrians are aware that, especially in the social, health, security, financial and tax policies, changes must be made in order to keep Austria attractive, to ensure quality of life for a long time and to ensure standards. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But don't get broken!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In view of these needs and the related measures, this coalition has already demonstrated that its strengths include the will to implement, implement and enforce. The motto: “Walking is called action” brings it to the point. We have the chance to shape Austria in the future. And we've already shown one thing: We know what economic policy means today: Location policy! Policy needs to create the best framework for keeping Austria attractive and even more attractive as a location for high-quality and innovative investments by industry, trade and industry. For a number of years, the attractiveness of Austria's business location has improved significantly due to our targeted location policy. Throughout European competition and in a report from the European Commission, which is assessed according to 88 criteria, Austria is clearly in front of countries such as Germany, Great Britain, Belgium, France, Spain, Greece and Italy. – A further proof that this government is working properly, because Austria is a safe economic location and a country of safe jobs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The comparison makes us sure, because if I look at the SPÖ reform proposals, such as the increase in health insurance or the abolition of the district headquarters or the promotion of housing, then I can only talk about a dangerous threat to the Austrian population. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to give you a comparison from the football language: Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! With your politics you play in the Kreisliga. – Thanks to our government plays Austria in the Champions League!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10445	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10464	Mr President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria and the Champions League? – Please read the international media! “Süddeutsche Zeitung”, 15. October: ‘Light figure as a tricker’. “The Austrian Minister of Finance has managed.” Can the current Minister of Finance, who is felt to be a burden on the entire Federal Government, maintain an international reputation if such headlines can be read everywhere? Mr. colleague, I think you should look around and not talk about the Champions League, but try to get a Champions League back to the government bank – and not the last one. That is why, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] With the advance government reform, it has become clear that now only more “revelations” are taking place. In 2000 fishing was practically only possible via an underground passage. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's where you remind me of something! Who was with you, Mrs. Colleague? You better not mention that!]] The “translations” have, as said, to one – how to say? - Taferlwechslerei led. It is not much left to take a gentleman from Vorarlberg as the most pleasant partner of the ÖVP as vice-chancers. Yeah, that's what it says: The ÖVP indicates the tone, and the FPÖ is more and more fragmented. Meanwhile, there are five people who have the say in the FPÖ. I do not know how long the government can find a common language in view of this development at all, and whether it is just an approach. Mr. Haupt has also sometimes - I must say this - offered us an authentic picture, even personally: He was engaged in various fields. He has also shown understanding. I cannot say the same from Mr Gorbach, who is now a Vice-Cancellor. The biggest mortgage of this government – and this is, please, reading internationally! – but KHG, Karl-Heinz Grasser. You know: the bubble with the zero deficit, the privatization fiasco, homepage, fees, non-statement of shares. This is a long list that would have sent him out in the international political comparison – for a long time! But here in Austria, we have to endure that a person is still a Minister of Finance, who cannot properly distinguish between private and state, between tax correctness and certain friendly economy. I can't do that anymore! You, please, exchanged the wrong ones! They should have sent KHG into the New or Friends Economy long ago. That would have been the right way! We know that there was also internal criticism of this government constellation. Not for nothing, Mr. Landeshuptmann Pühringer said in Upper Austria that the country elections were a clear monument towards Vienna in the massive growth of the Greens and in the massive increase of the SPÖ. – The country elections were almost an election of this federal government! Finally in Tyrol, where the ÖVP did not reach the result it was seeking, and where there was also an blatant increase in the green voice. That would be the direction of the future for us! Therefore, new elections are not a matter of 2006 for me, but new elections must take place as soon as possible, because with this offer Austria has just managed on the international stage. And the Austrians didn't deserve that. We don't need another vice chancellor, we need a new, different government!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10509	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10528	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! They should be a little more cautious about criticizing and reducing government work, especially the members of the government. This Federal Government has begun to reform this state, has begun to reduce debt in that state, and has begun to guarantee the Austrians a better future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our liberal government members are all professionally experienced. They're all out of practice. You know where the shoe is pressing. You know what problems the population has. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Hubert Gorbach, our vice chancellor, comes from the economy. He has been an export manager, has professional experience, has been a long-standing procurist of a large textile company before he became state-owned, dedicated himself to road and building construction, and has acquired skills there. He is one of the people who have experience, who know what it is about in government work. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Herbert Haupt has been a veterinarian since 1975, has practiced his profession in practice. He has been a member of the National Council since 1986, since then also a member of the Committee. I think it's doubtful that he has the highest social competence. Austria cannot wish for a better job than our Herbert Haupt! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Uschi Haubner, who is sometimes a bit harshly commented on by you, is our Secretary of State for Social Affairs. She is a trained professor, has been active for 23 years and can't be selected like some professors here. She was then a National Councillor for Consumer Protection, and has the necessary expertise in this area before becoming, among other things, State Secretary for Consumer Protection and Social Affairs. Karl Schweitzer – to continue: There is no one who is more appropriate to speak in sports matters than Karl Schweitzer, who is also a professor, is an active sports professor, who knows both in field sports and in top sports, in performance sports and in school sports. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: In the gym!]] If this man speaks, he has the highest degree of competence, because he himself knows what it's all about in this meteor. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, we can also count on State Secretary Reinhart Waneck. Since 1971 he has been an active doctor, university professor and director of a hospital, who knows what is happening in health care. [[Abg. Gaál: Has no competence!]] That's not a theorist, it's not from a cadre forge or from any political foresight organization. He knows what it's all about. Or: Federal Minister Dieter Böhmdorfer. I believe that if you are an independent lawyer for 27 years, you know yourself in the area of justice and you really know where the problems lie and where the reforms are to be made. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] These are our free government members – all of them with experience! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: sale!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Sale of space!]] If you are already so critical, of course I also come to speak on the shadow cabinet of the opposition; Mr. One has spoken to the professional. Alfred Gusenbauer – I take the data from your own homepage –: Profession: Workers' Chamber, SPÖ employees. - That's your whole experience. Josef Cap: Career: socialist student activist, managing director of the socialist Zukunftswerkstatt, party employee of SPÖ. - So pure party people. Doris Bures – because she spoke so critically here earlier –: She was the Federal Secretary of the Socialist Community and District Representatives. Then it is entirely into politics, into which SPÖ migrates. Where are you, in your shade cabinet, the practitioners, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? There is the mayor of Vienna, Mr Häupl, a model for you. He was at least a few years – but only briefly – of scientific staff at the Natural History Museum before dedicating himself to politics. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, what experience do your top politicians have? – I have to observe: none at all! And with the Greens, I can do it relatively briefly with regard to their political experience. Peter Pilz can be read on his homepage: Profession – self-proclaimed social scientist. Werner Kogler: Cooperation with various research projects. Dieter Brosz has been a rental counsellor for at least half a year. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: 20 years...!]] Austria prefers to trust experienced politicians, for they are the guarantee of reforms!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10662	As the next speaker, Mrs Mag. Worm reported in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10696	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Mainoni can turn it and turn it around as he pleases: The Menetkel on the death of the government of Schüssel II is already written on the wall. The decay is progressing, the end is approaching. The government is on its last move. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Like a drowner, this federal government is now beating itself wildly and destroying the social and legal fabric of Austria. Less and less laws have been followed by a strict review by the Constitutional Court. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] The construction of ropes and friendly business is part of the day-to-day business. On the one hand, state property is sold under its value, and on the other hand, Mrs ex-minister Monika Forstinger, who was released from the government that had resigned, appears again in an area from which she was previously dismissed. This too is a sign of the aversion of this federal government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The list of ministers for transport and technology is long, Mr. Federal Minister and now Vice-Chancellor. You know this and you have a mortgage, because the result of the previous transport policy is miserable. We know that the transit contract expires, it's not a tracking in sight. [[Abg. Wittauer: Why did you go back into the government? Landesrat für Verkehr! That's a joke, what's to be said!]] Unfortunately, there is nothing in sight and, above all, the Tyroleans suffer from it. This is a sad example, which is a sad balance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, in order to maintain the high standard of living in Austria, for which the Social Democrats were responsible in this state, for which they were responsible, a good infrastructure policy is also important for an efficient economic policy, but it is not available. It would also be important to have an excellent education and research policy. In this area, ladies and gentlemen, however, everything that is to be staggered at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: Please!]] The competent minister, Elisabeth Gehrer, is more and more practicing in refusal of reality and is talking about her place of business, where there has been nothing left to beautify for a long time. The Austrian universities and schools also suffer from blatant lack of money. Last week, 2 500 students went to the street in Innsbruck because they are afraid of their future, because they are not available because they fear that they simply have no future in this policy and do not gain the education that would be necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But Mrs Gehrer does not do that. She's dreaming of Nobel Prizes. In contrast, however, honor rations such as the Star-Chirurg Professor Margreiter will go on the road tomorrow to defend themselves against what is happening here, namely the destruction of the Faculty of Medicine Innsbruck. All these professors go to the street tomorrow, can't save people's lives because they think they can't watch there anymore. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does that mean again?]] This is also a rejection of research policy. This is a rejection of this so-called "Sham Autonomy" – and you have to answer for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen! In this climate in which such conditions prevail, of course, no top research can be done on the other hand. [[Abg. Wittauer: Gisela, say the truth at last!]] And that's the sadness! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, let me say: This government transformation is too short – Straster, Grasser, Gehrer would have been part of it. But then what remains?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10834	Mr Neugebauer spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10854	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to encourage you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, to congratulate you today in your best way, and you will use courage and determination to address the issues. I would also like to thank you for having the dialogue with the social partners on matters of matter, even if it is difficult. From Herbert Haupt I do not need to say goodbye, we will continue to discuss the social concerns in our own unconventional way of dealing with each other. I think we will certainly achieve good results. However, I am somewhat concerned about the speech by the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Dr. Gusenbauer, who has painted a lot of zeros today. It would be good if the contact between my colleague Vergestnitsch and the chairman of the party would be a little closer. For example, there has already been a round table on harmonisation. The Federal Chancellor has agreed with the social partners – also with Fritz Verzehnitsch – that another round will take place in a few days, after the ÖGB Congress. - So no zero! For the Health Forum dialogue, please, Dr. Gusenbauer, got an invitation for Monday. I'm curious if you can also present the stone of the sages. The third economic package is in preparation. I hope you've already talked about that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I have read in the last few hours – I think it was Mr Central Secretary; but I do not want to say anything to you: Dr. Gusenbauer announced his disappointment about the government alliance in Upper Austria early on on the radio with the comment “The election result has been distorted!” It's clear: Mr. Haider has achieved a personal gain in Upper Austria, but the first one is still the one who jumps farthest, jumps the highest or the first one passes the finish line. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: 11 percent!]] And this is still Mr. Land captain Dr. Josef Pühringer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From the mid-range I have always been interested in the style in Upper Austria – cooperation, interlocutory speeches – which has actually made this state one of the most successful in Austria. But obviously this was no longer the political culture in the last election campaign. The SPÖ Oberösterreich with its chairman Erich Haider has deliberately put this climate at risk. In this context, I would like to mention the language, since we spoke early today about generations and about the fact that politics in the use of the language should be a model for the young generation. But no one else – and a councillor of the state, was attested today, someone is in a high position – as Mr. Landesrat Ackerl said today: It has probably never ruled such a G’indel Austria as it is now. – He even confirmed this on demand. On a SPÖ homepage – and this is the lowest point of political culture, the peak of tastelessness – the evaporation of the politics of the Upper Austrian head of state takes place through the presentation of excrements. There, please, is no more dialogueal capacity! Then we don't need to talk about example effect with the young generation. This is an interfering style of election, that is to reject and reject energetically! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The content in a partnership and how people deal with each other depends on it. The Austrian People's Party can deal with the Social Democrats in Tyrol, because they probably deal fairly with each other, the Austrian People's Party can work with the Greens in Upper Austria and the Austrian People's Party can with the Freedoms in the Federation. – A good future for our Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10909	From the government bank, Mr. Mag. Grasser to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10927	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I have the impression, Mr Gusenbauer, that you are making a polemic objection that social democracy has entered this debate with a special short-term memory, because you have shown for 30 years what brings you together in financial policy. [[Abg. Heinzl: You have also forgotten your shares!]] You might have forgotten that it was you who left us a recovery case. Its balance sheet means: You have left us debt of € 133 billion, you have left us an annual interest rate charge of € 6.6 billion. 6 600 million € the taxpayers alone have to pay on interest! [[Abg. Gaál:... Your recovery case!]] They left us extra-budget debt of € 19.5 billion. – This is the balance sheet you have to answer. This coalition – quite unlike that – has taken place in order to work with all its strength for Austria. And it paid off, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Why haven't you resigned yet?]] We have taken over the following position from Austria in the world in terms of competitiveness: In 1999, we were the number 18, the most competitive country in the world. In 2002 we were already the number 13. - So from 18 to 13 a.m. As far as the institutional investor is concerned, as far as the creditworthiness of a country is concerned, we were number 16. We're the number 10. As far as EU structural indicators are concerned, the following should be said: We are the fifth best country in the European Union. That is, ladies and gentlemen: It has paid off for Austria, which can be proved. The facts and facts show it. This is a great success of this federal government in financial and economic policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! They have made deficits of 3 percent, 4 percent, even of 5 percent in the nineties. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You bought shares!]] For the first time in 2001, we have generated a surplus of 0.3 percent for more than 30 years. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What do you have to hide?]] We have made a turn in financial policy. They told us that this would be a one-time event, that it had only been done over the revenue side, we would not bring it together again. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2002, we had a very small deficit of 0.1 percent, i.e. practically twice in a row, with a balanced budget. We have also managed to significantly reduce the tax rate, the tax burden. You left us a tax rate of 44.6 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] The tax rate has already fallen to 43.9% in the last year, 2002 and will be 43.6% in the next year. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: How are your shares?]] The last time Austria had such a low tax rate in 1995. The Federal Government has thus managed to reduce the tax burden on the population by 1 per cent of the gross domestic product, i.e. by more than € 2 billion. And we're proud of it! We have already decided on the first stage of the tax reform. It shall enter into force on 1 July 2014. January next year. All of this reduces taxes and taxes. This is the right way for Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have opposed, we voted in favour of this reform, that annual gross income up to €14 500 from the 1st century onwards. January next year will be tax-free in Austria. We voted in favour of a clear relief of small and medium-sized incomes. Up to € 580 a year, the population will remain in the wallet more. That is, of 5.9 million Austrian taxpayers, 2.4 million will no longer pay taxes from next year. 40 percent of taxpayers no longer pay taxes from next year. This shows how high the social justice of our tax system is: It is important for us to relieve small and medium-sized incomes. We've managed to get up to €100 000 in profits, if he stays in the company, then there's a half-rate procedure, half the tax rate. This is important so that equity can be built up. My predecessors in the Office of the Minister of Finance had the “creativity”, a 13. Introduce VAT prepayment. They have thus taxed the economy and have received a loan of €1.7 billion. We said: In Austria too, the year has only twelve months. Therefore: This money acquisition action is no longer available, we have the 13. VAT prepayment abolished. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You also have this self-controlling...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Voices You will see the next stage of the tax reform, the great discharge of €2.5 billion that we will be preparing, which we will present in the next few months! This will show the public that it is our priority to reduce taxes and taxes while at the same time pursuing a stability-oriented fiscal policy. We know: Liberation and performance orientation are important for growth, location, employment and life assurance. We're not the island of the Blessed, but we're a safe haven. We have created a good foundation. The 3rd economic recovery package, the next stage of tax reform, will bring about a very important growth impulse, an important employment impetus for Austria. Voices You can do this right way for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11093	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11112	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is almost touching, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for you to sit down to become a Vice-Chancellor who has now resigned in order to assure him of your solidarity. Humanely, it is okay, but politically, Federal Chancellor, you have to ask yourself exactly as well as the ÖVP in the Federal Government as a whole, whether you do not share responsibility for the fate of the Head of State. It was not you, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP within the Federal Government, who, for example, when Mr Vice-Chancellor's head took over the ungrateful and unloved task of disassemblying the main association, set himself in the first row, and said that we are now looking at whether Mr Vice-Chancellor could do this. He didn't make it. Now we are at a stage, ladies and gentlemen, when we have to ask ourselves the question: Isn't it going to be a little too tight? – Sit now They're back here today and making a government statement. [[Abg. Scheibner: Rejoice that you can discuss!]] Now the government declarations and the opinions of the Federal Government are coming almost already in a one month tact rate, in which you have to explain yourself to the government's next projects. You don't think of anything but the Reference: We have created the child money for Austria – and now we are doing a lot of things. But where are the answers regarding pension reform? Where are the answers regarding tax reform? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Zero!]] Where are the answers, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, regarding the question of health reform? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Zeros!]] There are many examples for this. I must say that I would have liked to see a little more clarity in this respect and not another announcement that you wanted to do this now. What – already mentioned – have you done in the last few days and weeks in the area of unemployment, youth unemployment? - I can't discover anything. There are no forward-looking programs. 26 000 young people under the age of 25 are without employment. Where are the concepts? – Once again, point out that it is even worse in other countries. It can't have been! It will be tight, ladies and gentlemen, if, for example, Mr Ex-Vicekanzler's head explains that he is handing over the staff. Mr. Federal Minister. You have forgotten to explain how many stave runners from the FPÖ will still be participating in this stave run? Who's next to Hubert Gorbach? Who is the next vice chancellor, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Karl Schweitzer!]] We'd be interested in that. How long is this game to continue? But it is also becoming narrow in other respects, ladies and gentlemen, where it is about the personal credibility of members of the government. I am therefore pleased that I now have the opportunity to change a few words with the Minister for Finance. I made a press conference before the summer and pointed out that either grass or fin says the untruth. I have pointed out that we need better rules on incompatibility in Austria. The answer was a complaint from the Minister of Finance. Mr Finanzminister! That's what we're going to look at!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11188	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Key to word reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11209	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! I would like to thank the Carinthian Vice-Chancellor, who he was, as the first Carinthian representative today, very much for leading the Freedom Party at a difficult time, for leading the Freedom Party in the government at a difficult time and for proving that Kärntner has known Members what they stand for, that Kärntner Members know what is good for the country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: What for?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] But I would also like to use the time for this – Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig, I am coming to you – my displeasure – you may not, I believe, say – to express my great displeasure at the fact that what happened here today in this House was really very sad. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Disgusting is allowed!]] It has become the new Vice-Chancellor Hubert Gorbacher. He's been appointed to office. He was congratulated. The coalition parties applauded. From the opposition, no one found it worth cheering. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A little later, thank - you words were addressed to the vice chancellor. Nobody – I emphasize: no one! – has found it worth applause. [[Abg. Scheibner: From the opposition!]] And finally – that is really sad – Mr Vice-Chancellor here in the House has thanked all Members for their cooperation and for their cooperation. Do you know what's embarrassing? . One of the SPÖ's Members has clap. This is embarrassing for this house, embarrassing for the Republic and embarrassing for the citizens who watch. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They don't have any manners!]] Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen is not present at the moment, but today he has led a “excellent” Carinthian election campaign. It was really interesting to sit here and listen. I must say that I am just as glad as my clubman that Mr. Klubobmann Van der Bellen has recovered. I wish him a long health because he is an enrichment for this House and certainly an important personality. I was sitting there and I thought I was going to offer him a cigarette, because maybe he's so grotesque because he stopped smoking. However, since smoking is harmful to health, I have failed because we want it to be healthy among ourselves for a long time. [[Abg. Oillinger: What do you want to tell us?]] But it should already be written to him in the main book that the Carinthian Greens he spoke of in such praise are far from where they belong. Ladies and gentlemen! I have looked at the results of the Carinthian Greens over the past 14 years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] The summit was 3.9%. There are the most recent dates of the Greens in Carinthia on the Internet. The interesting thing is, there is only one appointment. [[Abg. Oillinger: I think you're afraid!]] When you look at the press releases of the Carinthian Greens, you notice that the latest press release is three weeks old, and the third oldest comes from July of this year. I believe that Mrs Glawischnig, both you and Dr. Van der Bellen, should, if you are already campaigning for Carinthia, make them in Carinthia, because I think your green Carinthian friends are urgently needed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: Come on! Don't be afraid!]] – I look forward to it! In conclusion: If you look into the APA, into the newspapers, you can read a day after the conclusion of the black and green government in Upper Austria – I quote –: The Black and Green Work Agreement is a strong resistance for the Greens. The Linz District Organization calls for an original vote. They're threatening to move out of the party's headquarters. [[Abg. Oillinger: Take care of your heart!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A day of black and green government – and the greens are in the arrogance. I would like to praise my freedom of government and my free friends, because we will show it to you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11383	Mr Broukal spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11401	A nice afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! I'm glad you're a good mood. Mr Neugebauer! I am one of those “red grumbles” that Mr President of the time wanted to have removed from the ORF and therefore have his own and very personal view about gross words in politics. I always find them displaced. If you have offended what you have quoted today, I apologize on behalf of Mr Ackerl or at least on behalf of my person and many others. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Does he know anything about it?]] But I'm just asking you to see the following: We all sit here in a glass house, and we should not throw stones, but see that we leave the glass house as well. [[Abg. Wittauer: This has been seen in the last committee!]] I would like to speak today on the issue of 'railway', because Mr Vice-Chancellor also wants to remain Transport Ministers as Vice chancellors. Mr. Vice-Chancellor Gorbach! They have been exerting unprecedented pressure on the 50,000 railers in this country for months – not only on them, but also on their spouses and on their children. You approach these people, you provide the newspapers with half-truths, and you act as if you had to take away just a few advantages that the railways might have, and it would be all right with the train. I would like to say from this point of view: We, the National Councillors of the SPÖ, stand by the railways, we stand by the company, and we stand with their families! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You, Mr Vice-Chancellor, speak of wrong acquired among the railways. Acquired injustice! This has never been said in this country by 50,000 people and their families. It's insulting, it's cynical, and – which weighs even harder for me – it's wrong! You are at least a young man for my relationship – I am almost sixty – and so you may not know how the Bundesbahn recruited the railways you are following today. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: No one is approaching it!]] [[The speaker places a large ÖBB panel on the speaker's desk.]] I would like to begin by showing you, and at the end of Mr. Vice-Chancellor, this representative of the Austrian Federal Railways from the 1980s, with the following title: "His future is secure. Vati is on the train.” In the text it says: “Students, maturants, workers, employees, craftsmen, technicians, engineers, we are training you. School in. You're going to have to go back to school. Make sure your families can live carelessly. Today as well as in the future.” With these promises, people were brought to the Federal Railway 20 years ago, and you call it wrong today! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Today, they tell these people, their wives and children: We don't need you anymore! [[Abg. Head: To keep the world standing!]] We're not making you up! We're not teaching you! We'll push you off! We've found a way to cancel you! We're not ready to stick to what the train promised you 20 years ago. Mr Gorbach, I ask you: Turn around on this road, stand by the word that the railway and the Republic of Austria have given to these railways! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Between 1993 and 2001, the railway has invested, rationalized and reduced 16 000 jobs. Since 1995, newly recruited railways have also been ASVG employees, like millions of other employees. In these years, the railway has become more modern with the approval of the railway industry, and the performance of the staff has increased. Why go You don't think you're the same thing today? Why Saying You are not the company ÖBB, your Director-General, Vorm Walde: Sit down with the railway union, you have half a year! We want to see results, but what these results look like, it's best for you internally, because you know you better internally than we do from outside! Instead, you have a pragmatized university professor who has nothing better to do than look for ways to take away people who have been promised unannounceability and lifelong employment at the age of 40 and 50. We ask you, also in the interest of Austria and the railway, for as little disturbance as possible, that must be your goal. Everything else is a danger to the track, only the street lobby is useful. Austria needs the train, the railways need our help! They don't need their experiments!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11502	Mrs Haubner, Secretary of State, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11520	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! I regret that Mr National Council member Broukal has left the Fairness Train in connection with the ÖBB, for he claims things that originate on the one hand from the past and on the other hand do not vote. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Infrastructure has never attacked the staff and their families, he has never argued that employees and their families suffer disadvantages, but he has always attacked the system. [[Abg. (Muhammad), (Muhammad), (Muhammad),) and the opulences.]] And with this, ladies and gentlemen, you have a problem because you have been supporting this system for decades and living in this system that has ultimately led to things that we need to repair in the government, that is, the liberals and the public authorities. [[Violent calls at the SPÖ.]] This is the same with the pension and many other things. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: Who has acquired injustice? Who?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In recent days, we have provided emotions with the redeployment of various functions in the liberal government team, and I am pleased that the Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition take such a strong part in the FPÖ and wonder if the FPÖ is doing well. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I can assure you that the liberal government team is doing well because we do not have to ensure our solidarity constantly, but we have solidarity with each other, and we live this solidarity with the Federal Minister for Social Affairs Herbert Haupt, with infrastructure minister Hubert Gorbach, who is now Vice Chancellor, with Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer and with the two State Secretarys Karl Schweitzer and Reinhart Waneck. We do not need all our strength for mutual evidence of solidarity, but we use our strength for this country and for Austria. That's what we're here for! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you: The good work I have done in the Social Ministry – and I appreciate the cooperation I have maintained as a State Secretary in this ministry with my Minister Herbert Haupt – will continue. This good cooperation has really focused on those things that are necessary for the people of the country. That means making families viable and liveable. We design a generation policy that does not play out one against another, but which ultimately sets out the measures in such a way that families, that generations can also live and be safe. We work and strengthen children's rights, children's rights and children's rights. To include children's rights in the Constitution is, I believe, a common desire and a common will of this House. We liberals in this government take the first step. We also take care that the older fellow citizens of old age are not only supplied as best they can, but can spend their evenings. We have the problem of the elderly, who especially need our care and care. We also know that the family network is a very important network in future care, and we will and must continue to strengthen it, because if the families no longer work, then our older fellow citizens are no longer well. What we also pay great attention to is that consumers come to their right. Ladies and gentlemen! I also mean the successful recovery of interest from the banks by the Ministry of Consumer Protection, together with the VKI, for those customers who have been charged too much interest between 1992 and 1997, and these are not the big borrowers, these are not the big entrepreneurs, but these are thousands of small private loans that have been commissioned and for which too much has been charged at that time. We have managed to reach an agreement at least once with a large association that these customers will receive 70 percent of what they have been deprived of, quite unbureaucratically. That, ladies and gentlemen, is government policy, that is sustainable government policy, and that is sustainable work for the people of Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I therefore urge the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition to take note that we are making policies for people with hearts and minds, that we use all our strength for this country, and that we stand by our word and do not give up with abuse policy and the same as my previous speakers argued. We use all our powers, and I am optimistic and positive that the next steps will be really good for this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11615	The next speaker is Mrs Marek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11634	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! What happens when red reigns, ladies and gentlemen? – A view to Vienna: The comparison makes us sure! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The glasses!]] Economy: Vienna had a recession in 2001. The Vienna SPÖ government has managed to make Vienna the final light among all the federal states. The labour market data are disastrous. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who says that?]] Here too, Vienna is different – in the negative sense. Since 1985, unemployment in Vienna has more than doubled, and otherwise, Vienna can only keep up with the Federal Development – if at all – step by step. While the figures of the self-employed are constantly reaching new records throughout Germany, Vienna did not even have the employment status of 1965 in 2002. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Great!]] There was an increase of over 35 percent across Austria. Really a great reputation! Shut up! Last year, Vienna had the highest unemployment rate of 9 percent, which is more than 2% more than the average in Austria as a whole. Two thirds of all long-term unemployed people are in Vienna, and the duration of unemployment is also exemplaryly poor in Vienna. In 2002, it was an average of 154 days, while in Tyrol it was 67 and in Austria averaged 102 days. [[Abg. Krainer: Federal competence!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] The apprenticeship situation: In Vienna, there is a position of 7.7 teaching places that are looking for teaching places, and in Austria there are 2.6. Vienna really has a heart for the youth! [[Abg. Krainer: Federal competence!]] The charges have been exploded in Vienna since 2001, for example, waste disposal and travel prices for public transport. The prices for childcare are the highest in Vienna from all over Austria. [[Abg. May. Lap: Soziale Staffelung!]] Vienna has even managed to simply boycott liberalisation and the associated price reductions for consumers by introducing a so-called electricity tax. [[Abg. May. Lap: Bla bla bla!]] Social reduction in Vienna is also unique, where the poorest are saved on the back of the poorest. I particularly find the hypocrisy of Häupl and Laska to be absolutely unbearable if they do not think anything else but always reflectively point to the covenant. I don't want to talk about Lainz, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Lapp: Yes, because you don't know each other!]] Promotions are granted ideologically motivated in Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's not true!]] The competent city councillor Laska was not even stupid to simply delete the so-called shopping cart – a anyway not too high promotion for schools – for the religious private schools from today to tomorrow. [[Abg. May. Lapp: The shopping cart is...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig: Are we in the Vienna municipal council?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Before you talk about elites again, I may point out that there are many children going to be simple families. All this shows the idealessness of the Wiener SPÖ in finding real solutions. But the SPÖ is really creative when it comes to finding excuses, who is responsible for all the abuses in Vienna and responsible for them. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Exactly!]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the sole responsibility for this is the SPÖ in Vienna, and this cannot be denied by so many poster campaigns. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ constantly tries to give the impression that all the problems in Austria have only arisen in recent years. The fact is, however, that since 2000, this federal government has been working on what you have been trying to do for decades to tackle and implement reforms. And we will continue to do this in the coming years, together with the FPÖ, for the people in this country and for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11828	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11847	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are discussing a government reform that is – quite clearly and openly – the wrong one. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: No one was!]] [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] The government reform, which would have been necessary, would have looked different. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: You would prefer greens on the government bank, so it's wrong!]] Firstly, there is still someone on this government bank, who has been extremely retiring for a long time, namely Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The base will set up a tree for you in Upper Austria!]] He sits comfortably on his stock package and calculates one for the other time. In particular, when it comes to zeros or commas, it has serious difficulties, which is already a major problem for a finance minister, because, as such, it has to do with more important figures. The second government reform that we have to observe today is one that is actually taking place in the background. Since Gorbach will have to be antichambrate in Carinthia in order to guarantee the cohesion of the rest of his party, the extremely important transport resort will now lead a completely different man, and this man, of course, belongs to the ÖVP. Now I would not have so big a problem at first, I did not know that this man is not a transport politician, but a purely party politician who makes all his transport policy decisions – and this has proved Kukacka of the long and broad – primarily out of a party-political rationality. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: I just told you that and I said that this man has practical experience!]] It is not about the future of the railway, especially not of the railway customers and not of the railways, it is about the demolition of structures that he interprets as “red structures”. That's his main goal. This is not a railway policy, it is a party policy which in this way has nothing to look for in this forward-looking place, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ellmauer: 3 billion federal grant!]] But Gorbach will not be able to make other important trips to Carinthia due to the often necessary trips to Carinthia, which would be more than urgent at the moment, namely travel to Brussels. We are on the eve of the expiry of the transit contract. There is no successor, Austria has nothing in hand here, and the one who has announced that he will save this transit contract will have to talk primarily with the head of state of Kärntner about Koralmbahn or Drautalbundesstraße. [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach: Also important!]] The important, forward-looking and necessary projects in the area of enlargement of the European Union or the rescue of Austria from the transit disaster are likely to go down the path, because this transport minister will no longer have time to deal with the important questions of the Republic. In one more point, its capacity will also be enormously lacking: It's talking about an investment offensive. But this is a purely asphalt initiative from the point of view of the Minister of Transport – he has clearly said it. It is not mentioned that the European Union also wants projects of science and research from the countries, because this, ladies and gentlemen, would be a future path. There is no human being talking about it in this Federal Government. This obviously does not interest anyone, no more than the threatening transit disaster on the alpine routes and on the routes to the applicant countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11971	The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11989	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! High house! I don't know why the greens clap. What has been said, we have heard very often. Hubert Gorbach will perform his task. He has proved this in the past and will prove it in the future! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is already bound by ridiculousness when the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition deal exclusively with the Freedom Party and its leadership. I'll tell you: The Freedom Party will regulate its affairs within the Freedom Party and decide for itself and does not need any appeals from the Greens who, in Upper Austria, where they have gone to the State Government, are not able to exercise responsibility even on the first day. They're supposed to hold back! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's where the right person speaks!]] For Austria, it is good that Herbert Haupt remains the Social Minister and continues the excellent work of the past in this area. This is a guarantee for the future in this area. With Hubert Gorbach we have a new vice chancellor. I've been following your speech, Hubert, with attention, and I believe you. You are the one who wants and will implement with us the most liberals for Austria. The goals of our liberals are also yours, and if you are saying that you want to create excellent conditions for the country in this government, I believe you, because as Minister of Infrastructure and Minister of Transport, you have proved it in the past. We liberals have been the reform engine of this government since the year 2000 and a guarantee that Austria's economic location is safeguarded and expanded, so that we can – and this also concerns the ÖBB – compete in international competition. [[Abg. He stutters a little!]] It is always polemized by the opposition and made all bad. The aim is that it will be better and that the employees of the ÖBB will continue to keep their work in the future, and not that this ÖBB will be driven in the graves. [[Abg. Gaál: Do you know what the reform paper says?]] We're looking at the families. We've proved this with the child money in the past. We look at the sick and the old. We prove it daily with our policy, and we will continue to implement this policy. [[Abg. Gaál: Do you know the reform paper?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] I'm telling you, too. I am grateful that Chancellor Schüssel Hubert Gorbach has wanted much success for the next few years. We know he's successful. For us, however, this is also the guarantee that the opposition – red-green, this chaos – does not come to the government. Learn to do your opposition work properly, then we can think of what it means to do government work. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Look at the election results in Tyrol!]] For 30 years you have pursued a wrong policy, and to this day you have not learned from it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Do you know the ÖBB paper?]] As in Germany, I do not want to have a red-green chaos on the agenda, where people are being re-punished every day in the past policy. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Take a look at Tyrol!]] I would like to join Hubert's words: This Austria needs the liberals, because we were the ones who came here to lead this country into a positive future with reforms. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Less and less!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rada: You're not pickable!]] [[Abg. Reheis: The voters have left you!]] It is always difficult to reform and make people understandable, but we will prove it to these people, and they will understand that this government is fulfilling its responsibility for a positive future for Austria. [[Abg. Reheis: This is the truth! You don't have any more voters!]] For us, the Freeman has always counted: Austria first! We shall remain faithful to this principle. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Is this also on video?]] We liberals will definitely support this government, and we do not need any red-green advice either. We will not support any requests for distrust or committee of inquiry and will govern until 2006.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12218	Mr Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. I'm trying to start playing the allegation you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12242	Ladies and gentlemen! In an unprecedented deterioration of Vienna, colleague Marek has just claimed that Vienna would have the highest fees for kindergartens. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Prince: Truth!]] I'm actually correcting: For social weak Vienna has the lowest fees for kindergartens, zero €. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Embarrassed opposition to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's wrong!]] For average earners, the rate is average, and for top earners it is high because the rates are socially adjusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12326	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take a seat. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Finance under Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. 3rd. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Perception Report (III-29, D.B.) of the Court of Auditors on sub-areas of the Federal Government's conduct (229 d.b.) 4. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Perception Report (III-13, D.B.) of the Court of Auditors on sub-areas of the Federal Government's conduct (231 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12385	We now come to the points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. As the first speaker, Mr Herzegovina spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12409	Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee of the Regions strongly criticises the advertising expenditure of the Federal Government, and that is right, because what are expensive advertisements for a federal government that is accepted only by 6 percent of the population? [[Abg. Hornek: That is wrong!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: The Edellinger needed 40 percent more!]] Ladies and gentlemen! How does the Minister of Finance feel? Is he a model? A model of sparingness? A model of justice? A model of law fidelity? And in principle: What can he do? [[Abg. May. Worm: Fesh is he!]] What can't he do? What does this Minister of Finance do? What's he doing? So what can't he do? [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] He can't count and count together. For example, its unannounced volume of shares: He told himself about the “littleness ” of € 51 000, the Lord “smallest shareholder”. Nor can he always keep “plus” and “minus” apart. We all remember the budget speech that President Khol so brilliantly found. And: He has difficulties filling out forms, which must also be said. On the other hand, what can he do, Mr. Finanzminister? – It is very good for self-advertising tax money from the window, for example for an advertisement in the “Financial Times” to slam 812 000 s at the time. What else can he do? – He can employ very bad consultants. To say and write €27 million this can be done by this Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen! And he can very well organize a roadshow to €2.2 million. However, ladies and gentlemen, the FPÖ has originally promised that it will examine all of this, and we can be optimistic about the Committee of Inquiry's proposal. In the Court of Auditors, Secretary of State Morak used his modest acting skills and was deeply excited that the advertising expenditure of the previous government, namely the government climate, was so high. – Mr Morak State Secretary! I say, in a preventive way, that: This has been decided by SPÖ and ÖVP. The SPÖ and the ÖVP have advertised there, and of course the faces of the ÖVP politicians have been advertised. What can be the consequence of feeling something bad? – Then you can not drive it even worse! That's the point. Of course, government advertising has also been used earlier, but, ladies and gentlemen, an increase in the population per ad has never been achieved before! [[The speaker will hold a panel on which an advertisement entitled “Injury pensions from 1.1.2004 will be tax-free” and photos by Federal Minister Mag. Chief and Secretary of State Haubner can be seen.]] If one considers that the party president Herbert Haupt and the party leader Ursula Haubner – or what might just be up-to-date – can be praised by an advocacy for having made a promise and lifted the accident pension tax, then this is the last one, ladies and gentlemen! As you know, the blue-black Federal Government...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12485	Deputies! We've reached at 3:00 p.m. now. I am therefore interrupting your speech in order to be able to call upon the requested consideration of a urgent question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: I just want to end the sentence...!]] You can end the sentence, and then I'll call the urgent inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12512	It is true that the blue-black government has introduced this and that the SPÖ has successfully fought it. That's it. At the expense of the taxpayers, the head and the barbers are now praising themselves in public newspapers, which is really the last, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12544	Deputies of herbs! Do you wish the floor after the emergency? [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: There is still much to say about the state of this government!]] Yes or no? [[Abg. Dr. Herbs:... much to say!]] Yeah? – Your word should be: yes, yes – no, no. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Yes! ...!]] Mr Pilz, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance on shares, trustees and constitutional breach (913/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12606	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 913/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12731	I give the floor to Mr Dr. Pilz as the first questioner to justify the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12749	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At this point, I have always said to the Minister for Finance and Finance: “Mr. Federal Chancellor!” For the first time, I cannot welcome the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany at a request to the Minister of Finance in connection with the various events surrounding his person and around his office. This will certainly have real and personal reasons for this failure in government. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to justify our urgent request as follows: The law of incompatibility has been precisely designed and adopted by the Austrian National Council for a very, very simple reason and no different: because one needs to know what belongs to a politician or a politician so that one knows who might belong to a politician or a politician. This is the crucial question that has led to the reporting obligation in the Incompatibilities Act and which, in particular, requires members of the government to fill in completely punitive, not whether they dominate a company somewhere – for that is usually publicly known – but whether they have any interest in the special well-being of a company. It depends on personal wealth – I guess – whether someone understands this personal interest only from a stock, from a hundred, from a thousand or from a lot more shares. To ensure security, the legislator assumes that any holding of shares can give rise to such an interest and therefore enforces reporting – and therefore also forces a Federal Chancellor and a Finance Minister. We have always assumed that these notifications have been made properly. We also had no reason to believe that there have been irregularities or perhaps even illegal acts by members of the government. Only when there was the indication that the Minister of Finance had particularly remarkable shares with YLine shares did he ask whether he had duly reported this to the National Council. We now know the answer: No, he didn't. [[Call the SPÖ:Return!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] And now again the question: Why didn't he do that? – He says – at least that was his opinion so far –: I've been given bad advice. I've had bad advisors. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister! Do you know how “complicated” is § 3a of the Incompatibilities Act? – There are few law-making bodies that are so easy and so clear to read! These are law-making bodies that you can imagine anyone reading in this republic and elsewhere. It's just that inside. All participations in undertakings shall be notified to the Committee. I'm sorry, but the That's all that's inside. In the meantime, I am only asking you, Minister of Finance: Are these the consultants that advise you in your other department? Are these the consultants you also advise on the tax reform? The zero deficit? When it comes to voest-privatization? When you sell federal property? [[Call the SPÖ:Eurofighter!]] And maybe at the Eurofighter – and the court tells me I'm allowed to say it – shift? Are these consultants? – Then, for the first time, there is an indication of why so much is wrong decided at the top of this department: They're the bad advisers! Only: What's that for a minister who doesn't have any consequences from it, he says: I have particularly bad advisers; they are not even able to read a paragraph of a simple law properly, but with them privatize and I now continue to sell the federal properties!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Oils: He draws consequences: even more consultants!]] That is the question that Karl Ollinger rightly refers to. Is your answer: even more consultation contracts? Any more consulting contracts to friendly companies? Even more consulting contracts to companies, which then include: Publicly explain and confirm that tax is all right, although all experts say that exactly the opposite is the case? Is that the way again? And is that the consequence? I'm coming back to the occasion. – Mr Finanzminister! We have reason to believe that you still do not comply with the inconsistency law and continue to violate the Austrian federal constitution. The reason is quite simple: You are not only obliged to report your current portfolio. You're not just obliged to report what you just have. You are obliged to report to the Austrian National Council what you had, what you possessed, what you have acquired and what you have sold since the beginning of your role as Federal Minister for Finance of this Republic. – You have still not complied with this reporting obligation. Still, you keep essential parts, at least your former stock ownership, secret – and now the question arises: why? – because in your current report – and that could be a statement – YLine does not stand inside and because there may also be no other shares in it that can cause a much larger political problem for you than there are any Canadian or South American mining shares. You can already argue that the Austrian Finance Minister's influence on Canadian mining is negligiblely small. However, they cannot argue that the Austrian Finance Minister's influence on the procurement of the Ministry of Finance to companies in which the Finance Minister owns shares is inevitably low. This is the decisive influence. There are about the company FirstInEx, and there are other companies, and there are YLine, and there are experts, and there are nearby other companies, auditors, and, and, and. And then the question arises whether what you have heard or heard has given rise to interest in what you do, what you forgive and what you decide. If you say, No, I sold YLine in time, then two questions ask: First: What was “righteous ”? – There was a single bank that trusts you in all the discussions, and this is Bank Lehman Brothers. Whether or not the sale of federal property or anything else: Lehman's brothers always have to advise. Lehman Brothers said: Buy YLine! – Minister of Finance Grasser was one of the few who defeated the Council of Lehman Brothers and sold it at one of the last convenient times. The second is: You know, Federal Minister, that YLine is the biggest case with suspicion of serious and commercial fraud in the Internet sector in the history of this Republic. Now “profile” writes in his recent issue that a remarkable six-eye talk should have taken place in the Ministry of Finance on Wednesday. Substantial participants: Grasser, Böhm as well as Grasser's Chief of Cabinet Matthias Winkler. Whoever Winkler is, we know who Grasser is, we know, too. At least you know who Böhm is, Mr. Finanzminister, very well: Mr. Böhm was the former head of YLine, and against him mainly the judicial preliminary surveys in this causa run. Did this meeting take place? – You have not publicly contradicted this. - And if so: For what? What exactly a week ago? And why, as “profile” continues to report, does this happen? On Thursday, one day later, Grasser’s spokesman Petra Bergauer called in the “profile” editorial and was obliged to arrange a secret meeting with Bohemia. Her press spokesman, Mr. Finanzminister, offers “profile” a secret meeting with the chief suspect in the Causa YLine? What do you mean? What media You? And what interest do you have in making “profile” the Causa Böhm and YLine may look from a different perspective? And if the other perspective is that of the suspect Bohemia, why do you stand up for this perspective and mobilize your press spokesman to bring this view “profile” close? Is that right? Or isn't that right? And if it is true, Minister of Finance, then you also need explanation on this point, because this is the next indication that the Causa YLine has not been completed for you personally and politically. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] And then you're going to ask yourself: Is it just these companies? Is it just the reporting obligation? Is there more to the reporting obligation? Have you notified the Court of Auditors of its proper and proper ownership of real estate? Have you informed the public and the National Council of shares in funds or foundations? And did you inform the National Council about your proximity to certain trustees? And have you answered the question whether trustees may be active in certain areas for you? Have you finally answered – and a certain arch concludes – what your personal interest has led you to influence and manipulate the award of the Eurofighters – and this is still the largest investment of the Republic of Austria – at least twice in a highly problematic way – first of all in the influence of the call for tender, second in the influence of the award? We've always asked: Why has the Minister of Finance so committed himself here? Why did the Minister of Finance fight so vehemently for the most expensive aircraft? Why did the Minister of Finance meet the head of EADS, the aircraft manufacturer company? Why has the Minister of Finance repeatedly met the head of the mother Daimler-Chrysler? Is the Minister of Finance responsible for the military aviation industry? Is the Minister of Finance responsible for the international automotive industry? Why is he meeting with these gentlemen, who are normally responsible for either the Federal Chancellor or the Minister for Economic Affairs or the Minister for Transport? – Perhaps others, but certainly not the Minister of Finance, if he is not willing to discuss the issue of the tax burden or the tax obligation of these companies, and this should normally be a case for the Financial Office and not for the Head of Division. So: Why did these meetings take place? And what role have trustees played? And what role does trustee Michael Feichtinger play in Vaduz, one of Liechtenstein's greatest trustees? And what role does Grasser-Friend Feichtinger play in all yacht holidays, in the famous Philharmonic-Essen in the Ministry of Finance and possibly also in meetings with Daimler-Chrysler-Chief Schrempp and others? Are there economic links next to the close friendly links? What's going on here? And how is the interest in the Eurofighter decision justified? These are questions, Mr Finanzminister, which you have not been able to answer until today. [[Abg. Murauer: You wish for answers that do not exist!]] They could not answer why, for example, in the preface to the Court of Auditors' raw-report, which the Minister of Defence has mistakenly presented, there is that it is essential for the awarding of this was not the vote of the Minister of Defence, but that of the Minister of Finance. Where does this incredible interest in buying exactly this plane come from? And can you give us detailed information about these backgrounds today? In any case, we try with these questions and assume that at least today you will make an attempt to answer some of these questions truthfully. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can see where you want, you can examine what you want: The amazing thing about the Grasser system is that no matter where you start a search, you will find something after a very short time. I would not have come so easily to the idea that the simple demand for talks for a really very short search leads to a reasonable suspicion that the tax liability has been violated here and leads to a reasonable suspicion that the Minister of Finance is offering itself as a speaker against money. I would not have believed that the SPÖ's simple demand in the context of a urgent request would result in one finding out that a representative of the interests of personal institutions, a personal website of the Minister of Finance, is financed. I would not have believed that it is so easy, no matter where you are looking, to encounter incompatibilities, inconsistencies, problematic conditions, and sometimes to find evidence of illegal action. And that is why it is worth not only talking about individual cases and not just investigating individual cases, but examining what the system is Grasser, these Friends Economy, and how in fact a system like the system of Karl-Heinz Grasser with his various groups of friends could develop so unhindered under tolerance by the two government parties in this Republic. It is worth asking how easily a Minister of Finance to friends Supervisory Board posts, board posts, investigation orders, consulting contracts, design contracts and, and, and, could be awarded. It is worth asking why control within the department and within the framework of the Federal Government has not worked at all. It is worth researching why – and I don't know a similar case, despite many scandals in the past! – there is a head of the department who is obviously convinced to stand in every respect on the Austrian laws and responsibilities of the Austrian Parliament. It is worth asking why They believe that our questions are not the most direct interest and the task of the opposition, but the harassment of a Minister of Finance, which Parliament considers to be a theatre and which it has publicly referred to as such. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why I do not understand you, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the Freedom Party. Why do you prevent the National Council from looking at such an important task of controlling precisely in such situations: What happened, what else can be prevented, what can be done to make things right, who also has to be held politically responsible, how can we prevent similar things in the future? Why are you blocking the National Council from one of its most important control tasks? Why are you still not willing to agree to an investigation committee? If you do not yet agree, the Freedom Party will melt in such a way that it will no longer be majority-forming in future. Do it in time! See that you maintain a rest of political competence in this House. Voices To this committee of inquiry! Let Parliament finally work! Mr Scheibner! We have often argued together for committee of inquiry. In recent times, you have declared publicly – and I do not understand – that a government party could otherwise clarify it, it does not need an investigation committee. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, the distrust!]] You said that to the Committee of Inquiry! This is an important point, Mr Scheibner, because that means as long as this is a majority right, there can be no investigation committee at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: If something goes wrong, we will vote in favour! There's something there already, but not for an investigation committee!]] I'll finish. – Minister of State! They've been misadvised. You have miscalculated at your own stock, even around the factor thousand. You have many times – not even, but several times! – the National Council is misinformed. We have repeatedly explained why we consider you to be extremely inappropriate for this office. We hope that at least today you will answer some of these questions correctly. However, I would like to say one thing to you, regardless of what you say: With an ÖBB reform, a post-reform and, in particular, a threatening low-cost sale of the federal real estates to very specific stakeholders in view, we are not only concerned with clarifying these questions – that is our first important task – but also about averting further damage from this republic. And that only happens if the Minister of Finance no longer is Karl-Heinz Grasser! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12949	Mr President, in the course of your introduction, you have taken up a word containing the term “shifting” et cetera. The Klubobmann of the ÖVP has called for an order. I'm going to have the protocol created and, as soon as I have it, I'm going to find out about it. In response to the question, Mr. Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasserzu word reported. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. – Mr Federal Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12973	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I must and must not for the first time, unfortunately, of God, even today reject the repeatedly inaccurate and untrue notions and accusations of Mr Pilz.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13006	Minister! “Infam” is not a word we use here, even from the government bank!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13021	I like to withdraw it: Then I can reject the inaccurate and false ideas and precepts in all their clarity. I can tell you, Mr Pilz: If you replace serious work by 100 percent with polemics and cynicism, then your credibility remains exactly zero! It is a pity for a Member of Parliament if he has given up any competition of ideas if he has given up any confrontation in the matter. As far as the second point is concerned, the report to the Inconsistency Committee is concerned, it is my concern to inform the House of how this has happened and why this failure or failure has occurred. [[Abg. Oils: Multiply!]] I am also answering the question 7 of your urgent question at the same time. I got the questionnaire back then. I sat down with the employees of my house, filled out this questionnaire and came to the point where it is called “property rights in companies”. At the time, I clearly explained which shares I have in which companies – all the positions, as you now know, in a scale of between 0.6 percent share in the respective company and 0,00-something percent. It is therefore very small shares in enterprises. The information I then received was that I would not have to report these shares because, from the employees of my home regarding § 3 of the Incompatibilities Act, one has represented the legal view that it would be aimed in a direction that only the possession of those shares that exceed a certain amount and thus allows for the influence on a company. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Who exactly? Who advised you?]] [[Abg. Oellinger: That's not true!]] That's what I was told. I just want to tell you how it happened. – I can tell you that it appeared plausible to me because “incompatibilities law” already means from semantics: When can something be incompatible with the responsibility and position of a Minister of Finance? If you continue to read in § 3 of the Incompatibilities Act, you know that there is also regulated: [[Abg. Oils: 3a!]] For example, if a member of the government is involved in a company and this participation in the company is less than 25 percent, this company, in which, for example, the member of the government could be involved by up to 24 percent, may not be discriminated against in public procurement and in the award of such contracts. That is to say, the legislator has obviously – I conclude – drawn a limit of 25 percent in so far as influence on a company is assessed as a preference. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen: I take note, of course, of the fact that it was a misconception that I interpreted here in a final sense. I would like to stress to you, however, in all clarity: I didn't want to hide anything at all, quite the contrary. You know that there is a second report within the meaning of the Inconsistency Act which we have to pass on to the President of the Court of Auditors as regards the property of the respective member of the government. I would also like to say again at this point: Of course, the reporting of my capital has also included all my shares in value. That is, the capital I have announced to the President of the Court of Auditors, of course, has included these shares in value. In addition, I would like to point out that I have disclosed to all the shares that I have reviewed the report to the Incompatibilities Committee that last Friday, as you know, this meeting of the Incompatibilities Committee was held. There I was taken note of my portfolio of shares and thus very clearly confirmed that there is no incompatibility of these shares with my responsibility as Minister of Finance. That's what I'm putting on, my own. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the law of incompatibility is concerned, I have always complied with the requirements of this law. From my point of view, that is the really decisive thing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, allow an open word: “I am in favour of the fact that the role of a member of the government is not limited to the circle of those who make themselves available for this position, as it cannot be useful for the res publica.” No one less than our President Heinz Fischer said that, as you probably know, in 1991. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There was a similar case back then. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You should stay serious!]] The procedure that was then chosen by a member of the government, namely to make a re-notification of participations and to make a statement before the National Council, “considers President Fischer to be correct”, is cited. “He goes with a confidence advance” this question “here.” On the value of this whole topic: Yes, it was a formal error, but I'm emptying on it: [[Abg. Oil: No, no formal error!]] The content of the law, the substance of the law was, of course, always observed. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the questions in detail are concerned, I would like to suggest that I have answered the questions about my property in the letters to the Chairman of the National Council's Parliamentary Incompatibility Committee, or that you, at least the participants of this Committee, are the results of the confidential deliberations – in fact, they should be confidential – of this Committee on 17 November. ==References== You know, therefore, that there has not been this incompatibility, as I have already said, at no time! I would like to predict that I will not answer questions about my personal property and about which persons I have private dealings with, because they concern my personal conditions and because they are not in principle subject to § 90 of the Rules of Procedure, which is therefore not applicable. As far as the questions that I am not answering are concerned, I would like to add that, of course, I fully respect all the reporting obligations laid down by law, both with regard to the Inconsistency Committee on the one hand and the President of the Court of Auditors on the other. Questions 1 to 4: In my letter to the Chairman of the Inconsistency Committee on October of this year and to the outcome of this Committee's proceedings, I am entitled to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. ==References== Therefore, in the sense of these four questions: It was in no way incompatible with my role as Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: You didn't report anything!]] Moreover, these investments are also included in the current reports on the pre-pages of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: A confession to the violation of law!]] As far as Questions 5 and 6 are concerned, I have notified all participations within the meaning of the Incompatibilities Act to the relevant Incompatibilities Committee with the letter of October 2003. This Incompatibilities Committee, in which representatives of the opposition parties are also represented, has taken note of my report, as you know. Question No 7 has already been answered in my introduction. As far as Questions 8 and 9 are concerned, I would like to say: As you are likely to know, Mr President, these questions are also not subject to parliamentary law. I refer once again to my reports pursuant to § 3a of the Inconsistency Act to the President of the Court of Auditors and to the Committee in accordance with § 3a of the Incompatibilities Act. I would also like to say to you, Mr Deputies: Of course, I have reported my entire property to the President of the Court of Auditors. As far as Question 10 is concerned, I would like to say that you are at a foundation – contrary to your question; look at the law! – one cannot be involved, but one can only be a founder or a beneficiary in the sense of the law at a foundation. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Word Clutter!]] I have no such function. Moreover, this question is not subject to the right of question in accordance with § 90 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Then why give an answer?]] Because I thought I would like to do something good to you, honourable Member, and satisfy your curiosity, because I have nothing to hide at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As far as Question 11 is concerned, I would like to refer to my reports to the Chairman of the Inconsistency Committee and to my report to the President of the Court of Auditors. As far as questions 12 to 16 are concerned, these are questions under the circumstances of my private lifestyle and are therefore also not covered by the right of question under § 90 GOG-NR. . But I also tell you here, honourable Member, that no assets or shares are held by me via a Vaduz trustee or another. I have no trustee to manage my private property; unfortunately, it is not big enough for it! As for the question concerning lawyer Dr. Medwed, I would like to read to you a clarification by Dr. Medwed himself, who sent it to the magazine “NEWS”. I will read you the crucial point. Dr. Medwed writes to Mr. Kuch, a journalist of "NEWS": I have never held shares or other securities for Minister Grasser: neither directly nor indirectly. I didn't represent Minister Grasser in court until today. So Dr. Medwed's decisive statement. As far as questions 17 to 20 are concerned, I must honestly say: In the questions you have dealt with in this question, such an extent of immense immeasurables and untruths is being worked, so that I refer this back to the sharpest. And when I look at the question of 19, which I now specifically mean, in which it is said – I quote –: “Why did you bring your trustee to the meeting with the head of Daimler Chrysler and thus the owner of EADS?” I can only say: Excuse me, I have the impression that you're reading too many criminal novels. As the bad guy thinks, he's obvious. To answer yourself: First of all, you have assumed the untruth because there has never been a tripartite meeting between Michael Feichtinger, Jürgen Schrempp and me, as you put it in question 17. Secondly, as I have already said in reply to questions 12 to 16, I have no trustee. Thirdly, you say the untruth in so far as I did not, of course, involve any trustee in a meeting with Schrempp. Fourthly, as regards the statements on the Eurofighter decision: I refer once again to a number of responses from urgent questions, both by the Federal Minister for Defence and by myself, in this matter. Mr Pilz, I would ask you to take note of an objective decision on Eurofighter, a decision which has been taken on the basis of an comprehensible, transparent, clear and legal award procedure, a decision which, as you know, has now been examined by an independent body of this House, Parliament, namely the Court of Auditors, a decision that has been confirmed in its entirety, which has strengthened your attacks on an objective basis! [[Abg. Gradwelt: This is incorrect what you claim here!]] I can only ask you for this urgently: In the future, do not make any such precepts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] By the way, Mr Pilz, I have already said to you elsewhere, in another urgent question – we are developing a certain routine with all these urgent questions: No matter if I meet the Chairman of the Board of Management of Daimler-Chrysler Schrempp or the Chairman of the Board of Management of Mercedes Jürgen Hubbert, of Porsche the Chairman of the Board of Management Wendelin Wiedeking, whether I meet Audi or Opel, such as the Chairman of the Board of Directors Carl-Peter Forster or many other national and international personalities from industry and industry, I do so in the interest of our country, in the interest of Austria's economic location, in the interest of investment and in the interest of our country's employees. This, Mr Pilz, will not be criminalised or banned by you. That is good for Austria, which is taking place in this regard at meetings. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As far as Questions 21 to 26 are concerned, I would like to say that, as Minister of Finance, I personally do not forgive external orders at all, but I do so in accordance with the procedures provided for in the Federal Procurement Act. Of course, I'm the last person responsible, not a question. You led the YLine shares. I have 15th grade. ==References== On 1 December 2000, YLine had 295 shares; at that time a value of around 150 000 S when buying, 210 000 S for sale. If you look at this, honourable Member, and try only a small amount of objectivity, then you have to say – and that is not positive for me as Minister of Finance: I really sold these shares at a time when they were not actually sold, because I went up and down this whole course development, so to speak. So I sold these shares at the worst possible time, was also a really insignificant small shareholder and had nothing to do with this company, unlike some Members of this House. As regards the launch of the website of the Federal Ministry of Finance: We have made an award, in accordance with a two-stage procedure under the Federal Procurement Act. The company FirstInEx was entrusted with such a contract. I emphasize: I was never involved in the company FirstInEx, and I am presenting you with the formal contract award so that you can see what strict procurement rules are given in the Federal Ministry of Finance. We have made the award in accordance with a two-stage procedure under the Federal Procurement Act. A public exploration of the applicant group took place first. Following a selection procedure based on general and specific selection and suitability criteria, those agencies should be invited to make offers which, due to their size and specialization in the field of multimedia and web design, have sufficient experience with comparable internet projects and thus have the necessary capacities and qualifications to redesign and redesign the website of the Federal Ministry of Finance. A notice was then published in the Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Communities. August 2000. ==References====External links== ==References== ==References== In September 2000, 15 applicants expressed their interest. Secondly, when evaluating the application documents submitted, the members of the Commission took the view that ten applicants would be invited to draw up an offer to ensure the widest possible level of competition in order to obtain the best price-performance ratio. Ten companies have therefore received the tender documents; nine providers have submitted the tenders in time. ==References== These offers were opened at 10.30 a.m. on November 2000. On the same day, the offers were presented to a five-member commission of the Federal Ministry of Finance. These individual tenders were evaluated by the members of the Commission on the basis of the criteria laid down in the tender documents and, in the course of the evaluation, the Commission also decided to make use of only partial benefits. It was awarded at a flat-rate price. As I have already said, the best bidder was based on the evaluations made by FirstInEx Internet Services AG under a point system – very transparent, very objective, in a strict Commission. The order had the proud volume of €59 000. On the question 27: As far as my house is concerned, I refer to my answer to questions 21 to 26. – As regards the homepage of the association of the New Economy, I refer to the variety of responses I have made to the question, in which I have noted that I am neither a member of the association nor have a function, which is why this part of the question is not subject to the question law in accordance with § 90 GOG. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Helene Partik-Pablé has once said to this series of urgent questions, to this hectic hunt on my person, as it stands for me, or has interpreted it in such a way that the criticism is the tax that the envy imposes on the talent. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Please stay on the ground!]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Painful!]] I have already quoted Mr Cap Giacomo Casanova. – I can also dedicate a quote from Giacomo Casanova to you, Mr Pilz. Casanova said the daughter of envy is the slander. [[Abg. Gaál: stick to the laws, then that doesn't happen to you!]] They obviously do nothing but what the politologist Filzmaier recommended to the Social Democrats, namely to do a negative camping – and Filzmaier did not mean anything but: The aim is to systematically discredit popular personalities of the political opponent. And I tell you, that's exactly the method: quite conscious discreditation, quite conscious criminalization. You've made multiple ads at the prosecutor's office. You're throwing, you're doing bad. I'll tell you: Nothing of that is true! I had made a formal error, a non-notification; it has now been corrected. [[Abg. Oillinger: You didn't comply with a Constitutional Law!]] Otherwise, I have nothing to blame for! I'll tell you: None of your slanders has anything to do with the truth, and I will certainly not make any difference to this search campaign. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen: We work with all our strength for Austria, we make decisions, we solve problems, we secure the future. Measure us by the services! This morning the following comparison was made: Germany: zero growth, record unemployment, record deficit. Austria: Growth is 50 percent higher than growth in the European Union average, stable state finances, falling taxes and taxes. – This is a performance that can be seen, and the population will measure it to the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13340	Mr Van der Bellen spoke on business.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13358	Mr President. When I spoke, I did not know yet that I had several occasions to speak on the Rules of Procedure. First point: For me, it is new that a Federal Minister is accusing a delegate of a criminal conduct from the government bank. defamation is a criminally relevant behavior. I will inform myself whether, if you speak here from the Government Bank, you are subject to the immunity of a Member. If not, we will have to deal legally with this matter. I can only repeat, Minister of Finance: This is your behaviour – regardless of whether we are of an opinion or not – and this choice of words is unacceptable to a Member of this House. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Secondly, Mr President – and that was the original reason for my speech: I do not know how to deal with the following problem now, and I think we will have to deal with this in the presidential: If I have heard correctly, the Minister of Finance here, inter alia, has, among other things, claimed to have answered the Committee questions 2 to 6 with reference to § 90 GOG. – In my knowledge, he has not dealt with these issues to the Inconsistency Committee. He has made a statement of property there...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13397	Member of the European Parliament, if you speak on business, then you have a request to make. I'd ask you to make a request. General remarks on the speech are made in speech messages at the speaker's desk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13424	Okay, I'm sure my colleague Kogler will go further. I am surprised, Mr President, that you do not seem to think it is a problem when a Finance Minister here may clearly speak the untruth of his conduct in the Committee and explain the opposite of what is true to us. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're the problem!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13462	Mr Van der Bellen! I have very much considered the subject matter and the subject matter of the committees of inquiry which have been requested by the Social Democrats and the Greens today. It is clear to me, of course, that you intended to raise the issue of incompatibility here in plenary. The issues of incompatibility are not the subject of execution, not the subject of the state administration, but the subject matter of the Parliament which is guarding over incompatibility, and therefore not the subject of an investigation committee. Your club directors have advised you well, the applications are formulated in this way. As far as the questions are concerned, I would have had the opportunity this morning, because they are almost exclusively focused on things that are not subject to the right of question – and here I interpret § 90 of the Rules of Procedure as the ruling practice is – to say that I do not allow this and this and this. The Minister for Finance has interpreted the Rules of Procedure in his reply to the question. I notice that I share this interpretation. For business treatment: Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13499	Mr President. Even if one considers that all these questions relating to the fulfilment of the law on incompatibility cannot be debated or answered here, first of all, the question arises whether it is permitted to say from the Government Bank that it would have been presented to a committee of Parliament if it was not true that all of this was actually presented to this committee. [[Abg. Scheibner: How do you know all this?]] By my colleagues. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is subject to confidentiality!]] No, the fact that something has been presented or not is not subject to confidentiality. The content of this is subject to confidentiality! I've been talking about the fact.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13554	Mr Schieder, I would ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and make a request.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13569	Mr President. I would like to ask that you, with regard to questions 17 to 20, which are clearly subject to the right of question and the obligation to reply, and 21 to 27, which are not The Minister of Finance, for example, has said that he does not give orders, but that is what the Ministry of Finance has done, but it has not been discussed. Which orders – ask the Minister of Finance to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13605	Mr Scheibner has spoken.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13623	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am now really making a business order request that the President-in-Office at her next meeting, and I say that this seems to be necessary, to deal with the matter of dealing with the confidentiality of the information, discussions and decisions made in the Inconsistency Committee. As we see, speakers even refer to the fact that they have been informed by colleagues, apparently by members of this committee, of the contents of this committee. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Not about content! The fact that he has reported to the committee! Not about content!]] So if you have read this urgent request, you must have realized that it is not only about whether something has been reported or not, but also about content. It is therefore necessary for us to be in the presidential once again on this confidentiality.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13664	Further word on business treatment: Mr Molterer.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13682	Mr President. I agree with Mr Scheibner's request that we should deal with this in the next presidential term. But I'm holding on: First: The issue of incompatibility is not a question of execution, but only a question of Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Secondly, Mr Schieder: I recall the last presidency in which we have clearly stated that confidentiality applies to all political groups. My group sticks to it – obviously not all do! Thirdly, Paragraph 90 of the Rules of Procedure applies, of course. And fourthly, I refer to paragraph 91 of the Rules of Procedure, which is of course the responsibility of the Minister not to answer a question, but also to justify why he does not. That is why it is perfectly correct, as Karl-Heinz Grasser replied here.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13728	After all the club members have now spoken in accordance with our practice, I note to the request made by Mr Schieder that this is not a request for business treatment, as it is in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: (on p. That was an application?]] I should like to say once again – you were not there, Mr President Fischer – that: That wasn't a request! The question of the answer to each question was raised by the Minister. The Minister pointed out that, in accordance with Article 90 of the Rules of Procedure, he was only obliged to comment on questions of enforcement. I have shared this interpretation, which is for the President to respect the Rules of Procedure, and have given the floor to Mr Deputies. This one has submitted a request that concerns exclusively the implementation of the Inconsistency Act and the approval of these questions by me as well as the request to me to ensure that the Minister answers them. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No!]] – Well, what request did you make?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13797	I have requested that if you say he does not have to answer questions regarding the law of incompatibility, he must at least answer those questions concerning the execution of the federal government. And these are the questions 17 following, but he also did not answer them completely. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Secondly, Mr President, I would like to see that pass in the Rules of Procedure which you referred to when you said that you should only speak on business matters if you make a request. I don't know this passus, maybe you can show it to me once.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13833	First of all, I will follow Mr Scheibner and Mr Molterer's suggestion and bring this whole matter back to the next presidency. Secondly, Mr Arbitrator: I have carefully followed the answer to the questions raised by Minister Grasser. He raised all questions from 1 to 27. Whether he has answered them and you are satisfied with this answer is another thing. This is not the subject of business treatment. Finally, on the question of why one can only talk about business treatment if one makes a request: We have, in the Presidency, defined the practice of allowing a speech to be made by each group and then closing the debate on it. That's the practice. [[Abg. Dr Jarolim: This is a scandal, Mr President!]] We now come to the debate on the urgent question, and I give honourable Member power. Kogler the word. Speech time: 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13864	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! It is also necessary to clarify why it is called ‘the Rules of Procedure’ when it is possible to introduce such a disorder. Mr President. I would like to point out – as much as I am allowed – that Mr Scheibner and Mr Molterer have pointed out that the Presidents may deal with something. Firstly, this reference has already been made, and secondly, this is not a request for the Rules of Procedure within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Thus, the reference in question could have taken place in this case too. But perhaps we are simply dealing with what the Minister of Finance has said and what he has not said, without indeed infringing the Rules of Procedure. It is already interesting that the suggestion – request to or from here – of the colleague Schieder is not followed. It has nothing to do with incompatibility or compatibility at all, for it refers to questions 17 to 20, and this is about meeting the Minister of Finance with certain managers – no, not all! – of which he himself says that he meets such people mainly because that is part of his duties. [[Call the ÖVP: He answered them!]] Nevertheless, this is not the subject of execution? – I ask for information! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I answered them!]] But not all! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Of course!]] You have, in part, referred to similar contexts in relation to questions that are your private affairs. In any case, I really understand you, Minister of Finance. We remind ourselves of the question series of May, June, July, which you have already regrettably regretted here. But you have actually jumped from a smaller problem to the next - precisely because of this question series. At the time, it was also about meetings, not with Mr. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Daimler-Chrysler, no, but with Mr. Bischoff. In response to a request from Mr Pilz, you answered that there had been no such meeting. A few days later, “NEWS” revealed – and you have not demented this to this day – that you met Mr. Bischoff, his sign as an important Supervisory Board member at EADS, very well during this period. He even drove to your ministry. A few days before, you said there was no such meeting. – That’s very interesting! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I didn't say!]] You said! Check the logs! That's what led you into this ever-greater mess! I now understand your reluctance – at least on this point you have clearly been better advised – nevertheless, well noticed, you have not given the right information here on all points, and we want to focus on it now. First of all, so that we don't forget, once again to the mentioned meeting of Grasser-Winkler-Böhm. It just happened recently, but you didn't say anything about it at all. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Didn't exist!]] – Didn't exist either, good! However, ‘profile’ has not yet been demented in my knowledge. If I did, I heard it, I'd be sorry. But we're going to do this as well as some others. After all, this has often contributed to the fact that the truth has actually come to light. But I take note of your objection, I am sorry if I have missed the Dementi. But that does not change the way you deal with the law of incompatibility. It is not that you can simply go to the agenda and say that there has been only one error in form, that the content of the law has always been observed. The essence of this law of incompatibility is – and that is immanent! – that it prescribes certain transparency bidders – even if they were then again confidential – otherwise it would be a law for the Christian child at all. It is immanent content of the law that certain reporting obligations are respected, because otherwise the law cannot develop its effect at all. You cannot stand here and talk about a small error of form, Mr Federal Minister, if this very simple provision is quite obvious, for a long time – I would like to devote myself to it now: for a long time! – was not observed. A so-called emptying at a certain time is a matter, but the non-change of this message is an ongoing constitutional state, I almost want to say! Now we come to questions 1 to 6, which have already been mounted as very delicate. I am only referring to what you have said here, which seems to have been the subject of the debate. Federal Minister! I must draw your attention to this, and also to the colleagues here in the House, that here you give the impression that a report at the time x – some October, I didn't even look at your report in committee, I tell you quite honestly – rehabilitating everything that happened before. – The opposite is, of course, right! The interest of our colleague Pilz obviously focused on what shares or, as it is simply stated in the law, other share rights or ownership of share rights you had at the time when you were already required by law to report it. And there is a huge difference as far as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic is concerned, but we still allow this window today; it is not enough time. It doesn't help if you say on the sound so many October: I now have no more shares or I have these and those shares! The attempt to reorganise this, as you say, error in form, as we say, has never been done honestly. This should be communicated to the Members who have been equally affected by this misinformation, as well as to the public. That must be held! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Perhaps there is also a reason for not being further clarified in the matter itself. Let's just stay with YLine. In contrast to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, you have at least produced a report – as you call it – which once again happened to the public, in which you have just shown a certain state at the present time. But that has nothing to do with what was then. If you want to explain here that you are actually exhibiting a bad financial certificate on YLine yourself, my regret is limited. After all, they are one of the less than 1 percent happy stockholders of YLine, who could still make a recognizable and not so small profit. You didn't talk about further price developments; most of these stockholders went to the basement until the stock was suddenly worth only 1 €. Now, of course, it is of interest why, just a few days before this downturn has begun, you as Minister of Finance have still failed with profit. That's the question and nothing else! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] On the topic FirstInEx. It may not be the biggest award assignment, the home page of the Ministry of Finance, well aware of the fact that this company is being transferred to it, but it will be really delicate, because it is precisely about those points on which the law of incompatibility – and that is useful – is aimed. This is precisely what we are talking about. Perhaps the New Economy, the Association and the associated homepage are a private matter – although you have been tax-free because this is supposed to belong to the public office. Be it, we'll deal with the contradictions later. But a mission of the Ministry of Finance is a mission of the Ministry of Finance – and you have been directly involved in this company! You can't wipe it out. If you now say that was the best bidder, I am against you that the Court of Auditors has shown you in many areas that you have not always taken the best bidder. When you were caught, you set in motion an expert carousel again – at tax payment costs! – in order to disprove the Court of Auditors. That's incredible, gentlemen and ladies! An opinion that has been ordered against the procurement rules, another opinion that the Court of Auditors is to reject – where is that supposed to go? The whole department will be involved in a single evaluation, and then you're still so badly advised?- Oh, my God! – So exchange yourself or at least your employees, just decide on something! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since we have already mentioned the meeting with Mr. Bischoff, it is already very suspicious if you now challenge certain three-point constellations again, including one with Mr. Feichtinger, trustees in Vaduz. In any case, we're going to take care of the matter. However, it is not yet proof that you are saying here: It wasn't like that! Often it turned out later that it was so. So: Wait! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Last point: Eurofighter. In view of the notes made by the Ministry of Defence, from which not only the intervention of the Ministry of Finance – your cabinet, Mr Christl – clearly emerges, but in which, for example, in order to name just a basket, Grasser is also mentioned on 13 March. July to EADS and the BMF a week later – in 2001, a year before the flood! – Mounts that the 18-piece variant comes and the tender deadline is the most appropriate to 18. In view of such circumstances, do you wonder if you have to ask questions in this context? You really want to argue that this is a legitimate question? What do all these meetings have to do with these managers with the operations and influences of the Ministry of Finance? Even if you don't explain that, someday it will clarify!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13991	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14010	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed and was also to be felt that the opposition parties had no special pleasure with the outcome of the 2002 National Council elections. SPÖ analyses have shown that one of the success factors in the election campaign specifically of the ÖVP was the nomination of Karl-Heinz Grasser as also future finance minister. There is even an analysis within the SPÖ that says it was a mistake not to attack Karl-Heinz Grasser personally in the election campaign. I don't want to evaluate the character that you have to have in order to see something like this, but the anger about this supposed mistake must already be huge – even today! – otherwise, it would be impossible for me to explain that such a dirty campaign against an acting Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's unheard of!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They apparently follow a concept known from America, namely the so-called Dirty Campaigning, i.e. to drive dirty dowel campaigns, according to the motto: "One besieges a respected, successful personality, the opposing camp apparently, as long as it is dirty, until it is actually dirty, then point to it with his finger and call: [[Abg. Gaál: This is a breach of constitution!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Is that so normal what happens?]] You look, is the dirty one!" – I give you a right in your analysis: Karl-Heinz Grasser was and is a successful finance minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Two zero deficits, two annual accounts without new debt – we haven't known anything like that for many years! [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens:Debt rate!]] The same applies to the tax and tax rate that has now fallen again at 1995 level, to the implementation of the first stage of the tax reform already decided, namely, for micro-earners up to €14 500, as well as for companies, to halve the tax on unclaimed profits for the economic location, and to the abolition of the 13. VAT prepayment. Now the Minister is preparing the second part of the probably largest tax reform in this country – for site security, by reducing our taxes. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! There's another reason, I think, why you're throwing our Minister for Finance: Of course, you want to distract from the past. They want to distract from what has caused all of this country's social-democratic finance ministers in the past. What was the great headline on the financial policy of the Social Democratic Finance Ministers? - Debts! [[Call the ÖVP:Debt policy!]] But debt is consumption of the future, debt produces interest-rate taxes, which in turn take the scope for future investment. One could easily continue this list: National Debakel during the SPÖ government responsibility, “consumer” arguments in your area of responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen! The experts have long agreed on this and have judged: The SPÖ was on the wrong track with this policy, Karl-Heinz Grasser is on the right path with his policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And there is another reason for this dirty dome campaign, according to the motto “Hold the thief!” – Dear colleague Matznetter, you are able to generate a lot of hot air media. This air, hot as it is, rises and actually causes attention. This gives you a coat of economic competence. In fact, you really show economic competence, namely, in the pursuit and revitalization of private business interests with the business interests of the party, and that in a rather opaque bond, which is still optimized with insider knowledge and... – No, that's just a finding of facts! [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Is this the attempt...?]] This economic SPÖ network is largely a mat network, although the red thread that runs through it is not recognizable at first glance. [[Aha-Rufe at ÖVP]] Mr Pilz! We know, Mr Matznetter made the financial statements at YLine. I don't think I'm going to take that – I'm holding it out. – that you referred to a case of fraud that Mr Matznetter had something to do with it. I expressly say that I do not accept that. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Mr Amon has to answer this before court!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's financial policy under Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser is a financial policy of stability and location security. And if you still don't want to believe it, make the comparison with Germany! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Don't you like anything else?]] Budget data: Much better! Export quota: Much better! Labour market situation: Much better! Growth in Austria: Much better than in Germany. Inflation rate: Much better than in Germany! I turn away a saying from Edmund Stoiber, who said: The Austrians are no better than the Germans – but they have the better Finance Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14168	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14186	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! Mr State Secretary! High house! As a mastermind of the YLine disaster and the red network – as the ÖVP at least hopes to present – I use two seconds to clarify those who cannot even look into the company book: A YLine company has only been available since 1999. It will be difficult for any colleague to complete this in 1998. [[Abg. Scheibner: Did you work for this company or not?]] But maybe we should go to the core problems. Mr Kopf has asked us the question of economic performance. Well, I'll be right there. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Completed or not?]] Mr Molterer says we should not seek any data. We go to Statistics Austria and see: On today's day, 12.58 p.m., according to Table 16.1, in 2003 we are in fourth place in economic growth, 2004 in the final place. This is the performance of Karl-Heinz Grasser! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[The speaker hand over the Federal Minister of State to the government bank. Grasser written documents.]] But I'm really at the heart of today's day. The very decisive thing is: The Minister of Finance here gives us empty messages in response to questions, the same kind of empty messages as he made them his share ownership, and hopes that this way the information of the informed circumstances will not take place. [[Call to the ÖVP: Didn't you watch out, did you?]] The next unanswered question is: Mr Mag. Grasser is not the first time in a function subject to the Incompatibilities Act. How was that as Deputy Carinthian Head of State? Here too, the Incompatibilities Act applies. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is what Parliament is known to be responsible for, is it?]] Has the consultation of third parties been carried out at the time? Did you explain everything properly at the time? I don't know. [[Abg. May. Molterer:... Parliament responsible!]] My next question is: Is it up to the officials paid by taxpayers to complete the personal statements in the private matter of Karl-Heinz Grasser? But it was different, he told us today that he had filled it out first well, then he had to remove it again because he had been advised otherwise by them. Have the officials of your house Your statements changed, Mr. Federal Minister? – I hope that is not the case. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I never said!]] In any case: It was not announced. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Now we don't do it again...! A little more fairness!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not fairness! More correctness!]] This brings us to the third problem, and I would like to add everything to it, because the silent assumption is that there has been a planned campaign against grass. Let's remember! When Mr Scheibner made a choice of the plane, the result was not on EADS Eurofighter, but on another aircraft. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] We have now found – and that was in the spring of this year – that under intense participation of power. ==References== Another decision was made in July. [[Call the ÖVP: Old hats!]] This would not be a problem if the answers to the question were not exactly the same as the Minister that there were meetings of a variety of nature. He still owes us the content of these talks. Although the question after that is undoubtedly covered by § 90 GOG, he did not answer it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Now we come to the following points: Was it true that the Greens or SPÖ, in fulfillment of a mastermind's advice, maliciously lured Mr. Finanzminister into a trap, so that he suddenly told us here in this House, from this place, my homepage is private and paid by sponsors? [[Abg. May. Worm: More private, less state!]] He has solved the questions himself. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Because he's honest!]] He's got himself, in this kind of kind of a little up-to-date: See how good I am, the pictures of my homepage even finance sponsors!, starting to roll up the thread. It was him who brought the subject in here, not us. We have only asked the questions to follow. And every answer leads to new questions. Today he says, he teaches colleagues Pilz that you can't be involved in a foundation – that's right! –, asserts for yourself that you can be a beneficiary or a founder, and then tells us: I had neither of these functions. – On that homepage, however, paid with the 2.4 million schilling from the Industrial Association, was a photo on which the happy Mr. Finanzminister shows us the foundation certificate. How can that be right? As a founder, he signs a certificate of foundation and explains to us here at this point – instructing, according to the motto: I don't have to, that's not a matter of execution! –: I'm not a potter! What was said to those people who paid into the fund – I already know: have paid into the fund without a call? To the fund he tells us: I don't have anything to do with a fund! - Where did people pay? Who is the account to be credited to the Notary Dr. Weißmann? Mr. Matthias Winkler? Who's that supposed to be? Why are clear questions such as those of Dr. Pilz, whether Mr. Feichtinger took part in a conversation with Mr. Schrempp, answered in a washed way like: I never took part with a trustee? Why is the question: There was a meeting at which Mr Feichtinger, Mr Schreic and Mr Mag. Grasser were present? Still open? It's not a secret! He's supposed to say: Yeah, there was the meeting! or: No, there was no meeting! Parliament and everyone else will be waiting to find out about the content. And I want to say a few things on this occasion... – To mention these things also, quite by the way: [[Abg. May. Molterer: How many times have you met with the YLine..., Mr. Matznetter? What's your YLine connection like?]] I am already aware of why the ÖVP sees me as the responsible person of the pleite in public broadcasts: If you make the pay bill for these employees, employees, who are an unnecessary cost factor from the ÖVP view, then if they get a wage, you are naturally responsible for the pleite. I know. You want to cut down wages, you want to throw people out. We have no interest in this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: So far is the red network enough?]] I come to the most important point, since the speaking time is already coming to an end. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! If Mr Strutz asks you for a U-committee, you agree today! If the Minister has nothing to hide, we can make an investigation committee. If the chairman of the Salzburg FPÖ demands the resignation of Grasser, you should do this here too! [[Abg. Jakob Auer: How tall was your Gage?]] Colleagues Walch said: If that's all right, that he hasn't reported shares, then you have to consider whether Grasser is still portable! – You are right, Mr Walch. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] In this sense and also in the defense of this House: Think about whether it makes sense to join trustees here! On the subject of Dirty campaigning, I recommend you read the “profile” in which Mr. Grasser’s staff is trying to make dirty campaigns against me and organize meetings with Mr. Böhm. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] That's enough. It comes directly from Mr. Mag's office. Grasser. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14459	Mr Neudeck has now come to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14488	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's urgent request by the Greens is merely a continuation of a human hatred which, in my opinion, is unworthy. I emphasize that the procedure of not reporting the ownership of the stock will certainly not be our consent; that will be understood by everyone. However, the regulation should not have been so clear, as other members of the government have not reported the ownership of shares to a small extent. [[Abg. Dr Wittmann: But you already know that the Minister of Finance disregards constitutional provisions! You know that?- Oh, my God!]] Mr. Grasser has said several times today – and none of your speakers have said so –: They just want to scandalize. He said that he had reported his total assets to the President of the Court of Auditors, which contained his shares. This shows that this was a matter of interpretation, but he did not want to conceal any value. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You know what happens to you if you violate a law?]] – colleague! It's always a question... – Yes, then you also have to make the regulation in such a way that the one who has to comply with it knows what it is all about. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You already know that?- Oh, my God!]] And several don't know that, not just him. We therefore need neither a committee of inquiry nor these urgent questions, because we have responded immediately after this question came to the table, and the shares have been reported. [[Abg. Dr Wittmann: If someone as a minister fails to comply with the Constitutional provisions!]] And these shares are all in a scale by which there could be no influence on any company. If we follow what Mr Pilz said, namely that, in the case of participation in a company in a third-commitment order, the contract is to be considered, then I wonder if the staff of a ministry can no longer fly with a privatized AUA, just because the minister owns five shares of the AUA. This cannot be the meaning of this legal regulation. In the inconsistency part, it is rather certain that it has no significant holdings. But now everything is reported. The Federal Minister also said that he had reported his assets to the President of the Court of Auditors and that the shares had been included in it. It is also interesting that such reports have never been made public by the President of the Court of Auditors. I therefore believe that this part of the reports to the President of the Court of Auditors should also be placed in the future, because if these reports and the confidentiality of the Committee are handled in the same way as here in the Inconsistency Committee, then everyone will consider reporting something there because the Hatz that is being operated here is contemptuous and I do not think it is in accordance with the meaning of this law. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals and on the ÖVP.]] As a member of the Incompatibilities Committee, I would like to address the suggestion to draw up new and clear guidelines and to develop a notification form which is also easy to understand. I must say quite honestly, I also did not know what was meant by some passage, because there is reference to any paragraphs such as in the wording: Do you obtain references from an organisation that is subject to the examination in accordance with paragraph...? You could write right away that it is about these and those companies and about these and those organizations! It's not that many. I don't know why you always have to put everything in such a way that you have to look for a long time. It is thanks to God that the financial policy of the Minister of Finance for Austria is much more successful than his personal purchase of shares. In the “Kronen Zeitung” – and it is just as much quoted by the colleagues of the SPÖ – the newspaper of the 14th century. October reads: “With these papers he has certainly not become a reality, losses are more likely...” – such a specialist. The Greens have opened the hunting season against Karl-Heinz Grasser with the help of SPÖ, without any facts or content. A complete list – that has already been said by Karl-Heinz Grasser – was published by him on 13 March. It was forwarded to the chairperson of the Committee of Inquiry in October 2003 and contains all the shares in it. The report was late – and the Minister of Finance has already said that too – as there was a different interpretation of this text in his area, in his cabinet. [[Abg. Silhavy: Go ahead, the cabinet is to blame! That's a joke!]] You'll wonder sometime: If you draw experts from outside, it is not right, and if you focus only on the ministry, the opposition is apparently not right either. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is the last-class argument you are leading!]] Ladies and gentlemen, with his report, he has shown that his share participation is in the second or third place behind zero, so there is no incompatibility. Colleagues of Red and Green! Leave the church in the village and use your energy differently! If I look at my colleague Matznetter, how meticulously he is preparing this, I'd say: It is a failure to deal with our concepts, the concepts of this black and blue government, and to try to cooperate constructively there, but not to be locked up somewhere and to look for a loophole that can be used to torment a member of the government. Work with tax reform, new asylums and health reform! Even in opposition, it is not prohibited to work creatively, constructively and in terms of content for our country. On the questions a personal comment; the questions are designed in such a way that I say: When did you meet with whom? – If you hear that the Minister has not met in the composition or at all, I mention: I fled a system from 1958 – from the GDR – in which such issues belonged to the agenda. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] I hope they will not be on the agenda in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14605	Mrs Moser has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14623	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is clear here, Minister: You have violated a Constitutional Law! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's not a formal error, it's a clear violation of law. It does not help if you point out that you have reported it to the Court of Auditors. That's not the thing; you did that, and we don't even blame you for having committed crimes there. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The main thing is: You have not complied with the law of incompatibility, you have violated it, and this is in the constitutional order. Mr Minister, this is a violation of the basic principles of the Republic. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Quite specifically, this violation is a piece of your ongoing somewhat incorrect relationships, some incorrect practices, some incorrect interpretations of laws. We already have a kind of Grasser’s cascade – for a change once KK, a real Grasser’s cascade. It started with your homepage, the continuation were your honors, now your shares are coming along with the Incompatibilities Committee. In the background, there is a certain KHG community, which is always interfering in the areas that are often assigned to you. Minister! In my opinion, there is also an inconsistency if friends like Mr Ernst Karl Plech are introduced into relevant supervisory councils such as those of the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, the Bundeswonbaugesellschaft and the WAG, although there must be a clear conflict of interest in the person of this Mr. Plech: on the one hand, representatives of the Republic interests in the Supervisory Boards, on the other hand the owner of a real estate company, who knows very well about the transactions on the market, where Mr. Plech, on the basis of his supervisory positions, of course, has information suggestions. Such processes, such occupations take place! I asked myself: This will not be “eat” as easily as you imagine in the Court of Auditors. There will also be a more detailed investigation in the Court of Auditors on the extent to which these things are not in accordance with the uses. But back to the main accusation, Minister, that you have, so to speak, a very saloppe's relationship – in order to express it still charmingly – to legal documents or to legal conditions. Each one of us has to make its tax declaration – they are behind associations that may be taxed or not, they are taking care of the opinions that have been drawn up in Germany. Then take the poor Secretary of State, who gives you the barge. for such expert interpretations that are really diapery and dizzy from the front to the back. Honestly, as State Secretary Finz, I've been putting the chair at your door for a long time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Finanzminister! You don't need to be afraid, there's no dirt-bubble campaign. You only need to read the international media in a very concrete way, but you only need to make a really serious speech and answer in the Court of Auditors' Committee once and for all. But in the Court of Auditors you do not accept in any way the criticism of the Court of Auditors, but rather put an opinion on the table and, with this opinion of your private opinion or ministerial opinion, want to take out practical Republic opinions, Court of Auditors' opinions. I mean, this is implicit to the square, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14683	Ladies and gentlemen, ‘impertinent’ is not the fine English way either!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14716	I'm just saying, the process is impertinent to the square. This may be a bit sharp because of my emotions, but sometimes you also have the right to emotions. I ask for mercy, Mr President. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Back to the international field: I have already pointed out this morning that you are now really badly slandered in the serious international press, Minister. “Light figure as a tricker” is the title of the “South German newspaper” – I’ve said it before – subtitles: ‘The Austrian Minister of Finance has taken care of it’. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – No, that’s the “South German newspaper”. – The evidence or argument cited here clearly shows: Website, self-representation, stock stores, YLine et cetera. With these methods of bringing with you, so to speak, a slightly bad relationship to certain legal situations Not only do you personally suffer from miscredit, so that you not only hurt your reputation permanently, but it also transmits this damage to the reputation of the Republic of Austria. This is what makes me particularly indignant, because the Austrians did not deserve to have a Finance Minister who – I quote again – was “the Chancellor’s child-in-law first and is now a mortgage”. - Please, that's a quote! Minister! I think it will be time for you to stand up for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. Then there is the last chance for you to wash the vest, on which “KHG” can be read more often. Take the opportunity, Minister, to be man's enough and see that you are really really going to disclose all your things and do not wander around there with things that are not at all right and where the speech of constitutional laws and not of Court of Auditors reports is concerned! Unfortunately, in reply to our urgent request, you have issued a certificate of poverty, especially with the non-responsibilities, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14764	The next speaker is Mr Amon. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14783	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by saying that I am sorry that Dr. Matznetter isn't in the plenary room right now. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Who knows why!]] I think he will be interested in what I say here; rather, the public will be interested in what I say. But Dr. Matznetter is a very busy man, I'm going to go into it later. First of all, I would like to point out that I am sorry that the Greens are here in front of the SPÖs. [[Call to the Greens: But this is our urgent ones!]] It is actually a campaign against the Minister of Finance, which took its origin before the National Council election, when the SPÖ – my colleague Karlheinz Kopf has already quoted it today; on other occasions I had already commissioned the opportunity to go into it – a secret study in which it was literally said that it must be the goal of politically disavowing, for example, finance minister Karl-Heinz Grasser. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: He did it himself!]] After the election it was then said in another study that it was a serious mistake not to do exactly that, and that this was ultimately also potentially decisive, so that SPÖ is now in second place behind the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Conspiracy theory!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Your conspiracy theory!]] You can't rely on a competition of ideas – which is sad – but you're playing a game of horror propaganda and diffamation. But even if you agree with the opposition party, you have to look at who the spearheads of such a campaign are. I am with Mr. SPÖ-Deputy Dr. Christoph Matznetter. First of all, I would like to tell you, why he is probably not here now, because, as I said, he is a very busy man, which functions Dr. Christoph Matznetteralle. [[Call the ÖVP: Look hidden!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Which one?]] He is the Supervisory Board of MERKUR Corporate Participation, Asset Management and Finance Mediation GmbH – in which also SPÖ is relatively heavily involved – he is the shareholder of the company Matznetter tax consultancy company m.b.H., he is a shareholder and managing director of the company STANDARD Wirtschaftsprüfungsges.m.b.H., he is the Board of Directors of the PYROR Privatstiftung, he is the Board of Directors of the Roma Privatstiftung, he is Supervisory Board of the Nord-Süd-Institut für Entwicklung-Gemeinserbützlichkeitige Gesellschaft with limited liability, he is Supervisory Board of the Company Prom Ocean Werbst Artikel AG, and he is Managing Director of the MERKUR-TREUHAND Wirtschaftstrehand- und Taxberatungsberatungsges.m.b.H. I could now present a very long list of what Mr Dr. [[Abg. Broukal:... colleagues still have a job!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Matznetter before... [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] – The chatting will happen to you immediately if you have another moment of patience. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Here the behaviour of the Federal Minister for Finance in connection with the YLine affair was highly criticised. In this context, it should be noted how deep SPÖ budget speaker Matznetter is involved in this so-called YLine affair. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] This is demonstrated by an opinion by Dr. Thomas Keppert in the criminal proceedings in connection with the YLine, which is based on the annual accounts 1998 to 2000. In the annual financial statements 1998, the YLine's predecessor company... – Yes, you really understood me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] I am glad that my voice is understood to the last row. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] – The annual accounts of the YLine predecessor company were thus prepared by MERKUR-TREUHAND Wirtschaftsfidelhandhand- und taxberatungsges.m.b.H. Mr. Matznetter is one of the four managing directors of this company and personally known to Mr. Böhm, the founder of the YLine. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] For Bohemia's sister Ursula worked in the MERKUR and brought the two together. [[New Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] ==References====External links== April 1998 – and now it is really interesting – decided audit of the annual accounts of 1998 by STANDARD Wirtschaftsprüfungsges.m.b.H. Mr Matznetter is not only in the MERKUR, but also in the STANDARD Managing Director. [[Abg. Head: But he tried it!]] He'd have checked himself, ladies and gentlemen. – So much for the correct operation of Dr. Matznetter. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In point 2.1.5, “YLine Internet Business Services AG’s annual accounts”, the opinion concludes that the MERKUR participated in various YLine quarterly accounts in point 2.1.6, “YLine Internet Business Services AG’s financial accounting,” the opinion concludes – which has always been disputed – that the wage settlement was carried out by the MERKUR TREUHAND, without any time limit, that is from the beginning to the end. [[Abg. Broukal: What does this have to do with the request?]] And there – that is the last point I would like to quote – the opinion also concludes that the MERKUR TREUHAND was with Mr Matznetter as the managing director of the “tax representative of the YLine”, even without any time limit, from the beginning to the end. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now it will be particularly interesting, because Mr. Matznetter also bought heavily from YLine's bankruptcy mass. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: There's no such thing as that!]] The SPÖ member has apparently waited until YLine went into bankruptcy, and with the help of his company network, he has bought the company “dvo” from the bankruptcy mass. What's special about it: He even publishes this on his own company homepage, ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: Because, unlike Mr Grasser, he has nothing to hide!]] So it is, with one word, very clear to see that in reality a great distraction maneuver is going on here, that one wants to distract from one's own misbehavior and here is actually trying to make the Minister of Finance a scapegoat. [[Abg. Broukal:... there is a misbehavior!]] We reject this clearly and sharply. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, because Mr. Dr. Matznetter wants me to take something back from my press release: I called him "Masterm" behind the whole YLine problem. I've been thinking about it. I really have to take this back in all clarity and openly: The term ‘mastermind’ is too positive!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15056	The next speaker is Mr Puswald. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Listen to the speaker!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15087	Mr President, thank you very much for the introduction and also for the call. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! It is really interesting to hear from rulers who do not seem to have sufficient information, perhaps do not have sufficient education, Mr Amon, of distraction maneuvers. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] The only thing I can get from your speech is the following: First of all, Christoph Matznetter – I hope you can hear me – I am proud of you. What you do next to your parliamentary activity, I congratulate you and admire you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] Secondly, Mr Amon and Mr Kopf: Unfortunately, they do not have the minimum legal understanding, let alone legal knowledge. First of all, I advise you to make a difference between a government office and a Member as regards incompatibility. - That's the one point. The second point, which seems to me to be much more important, is the point in which the "distractive maneuver", Mr Amon, already falls into place. Criminal proceedings or preliminary investigations are pending against the YLine and the other machinations. [[Abg. Amon: This is also problematic for a Member of Parliament!]] Mr President, I have a hard time doing this, you know, the speakers are working perfectly, and you are talking about it in between. You can also ask in between, I say the sentence quickly when you agree. There are criminal proceedings pending, not against Mr Matznetter of my knowledge. Now please ask your interlocutory question, I'm very interested. [[Abg. Amon: Insider knowledge is, I think, also problematic in a Member's case, isn't it?]] – Mr Commissioner, I agree with you what terrible things there are in the case of jurisprudence. But I'd also like to help you get to the jumps. Ask You a lawyer, you make a criminal charge against colleagues Matznetter, I ask you to do so – I think I say so in his name too – and he will also be washed out by the prosecutor's office. But back to the subject of what it really is about. The finance minister, MP head and MP Amon push crocodile tears and say there is a direct campaign against a popular personality. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] – Negative campaign, Minister of Finance, thank you. Mr Finanzminister! But I would also like to make a personal comment because it is my heart. Many years ago, I met this popular personality you spoke to yourself in Carinthia, in the Warmbaderhof. The then non-financial minister gave a talk, and I have to say quite honestly, I was thrilled: a young person who has knowledge that is sympathetic to the ground, who really looks like a real person and not like a politician. I don't like to say that. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] But all the more – and I would like to stress this too – it hurts me when I see what development this person has taken, when I see what I must personally experience in this House since December 2002 and what can actually be characterized by no more than by the “curier” caricature that I saw and read last week, which is very unattractive to Mr Finanzminister, as attractive as he may be, namely, inflated like an balloon, as he floats away in space and apparently has lost any ground liability. However, this is not the result of a dirty camping or negative camping, but it is the result of the fact that the Minister of Finance has gradually made himself the target of public criticism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] He himself was the one who brought us all that we were completely naïve and watched and heard him like the little children with big eyes, when he told us about his homepage, to the ferry. He himself hit us with his nose and not only us, but also the media. And the media, not the evil opposition, are the ones that, for example, in the last issue of the “profile” speak of “sloppy relations of the Minister of Finance”. He's in suspicion and so on and so on. A committee of inquiry may be decided on Wednesday. Or “FORMAT”, which speaks of our joint sporting ambitions according to “Grasser’s last discount”. Ladies and gentlemen of the one government party! Another interesting thing seems to be in this “FORMAT”, namely that at the most recent meeting in the office of Mr. Finanzminister in the Himmelpfortgasse, a crisis management was held and the Minister repeatedly called on his new party friends in the ÖVP – as it is said – for verbal support. But he didn't get it! Neither at a telephone call with ÖVP club chief Wilhelm Molterer, who, as listeners report, should have been led with significantly raised voice, nor did – I quote the “FORMAT” – you allow me to do that – someone else put themselves behind him, not the German Chancellor, but – as “FORMAT” puts it – no senior ÖVP politician wanted to defend him. In view of the fact that the FPÖ in the federal states is also calling for the withdrawal of the Minister of Finance today, I must recognize how you unisono defend these wonderful people, and that is why I do not envy you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To complete the picture, I'll tell you: Mr Finanzminister is in good company with Mr Bundeskanzler, who does not take it so precisely with his shares. It's in the newspapers: Sagittarius sloppy stock holding. – Like sloppy, that will prove to be true. First he says a little bit of shares, then it's foreign shares, then it's not Austrian shares, and in reality he's giving an empty message to the incompatibility committee. Finally, Mr President Khol, who would have to act as the real guardian of the Constitution in this House, who, in the face of a violation of a constitutional law, is speaking of a formal error, and this is the law of incompatibility, in particular §§3 and 3a. The President of this Parliament speaks of a formal error if a constitutional law is violated! This is a moral image that is no longer tolerable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I can only say that this moral statement can continue for a long time, but the President will prevent this from being, as he did today in the speech on the Rules of Procedure of Members of any political group, only allowing requests, while allowing Klubobmann Molterer to make long statements. This is a presidency of a President, as I do not wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15191	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. Speaking time: 5 minutes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] – My patience has cause, Mr Posch.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15217	Mr President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! High house! Mr President, Mr Khol has today, in this incredible shady and confusion, in which it seems that there has not been much transparency, on whether the Minister of Finance has to answer certain questions or not, said Parliament is watching over the incompatibility. And that's exactly what we'd like. We would like Parliament to watch over the inconsistency. But what about you on the government side? – From you, “Menschenhatz” – from Colleague Neudeck – comes “defilement” – from Minister Grasser – and the most harmless one was “worship campaign” – from my colleague’s head. All this towards opposition, which tries to reveal processes that are absolutely to the detriment of the Republic. Mr Neudeck is not even afraid to compare a system of instigation, which has existed against individuals, and in part, not only in the GDR, with the control work of the opposition. With the control tasks that the opposition is performing here, compare a private interfering system! I really find that under any criticism. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It also shows once again that you obviously cannot keep private and function apart, but we are almost used to that. In the questions of EADS, homepage and now also of stock ownership, it is always clear that Minister Grasser is not really able to distinguish between private and function on the one hand and to perceive certain incompatibilities on the other. From my point of view, this is absolutely unbearable for a minister. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Again on Mr Khol's statement: Parliament is watching over the incompatibility. – How does Parliament do that? Parliament is doing this – or at least should – by means of a committee, the Inconsistency Committee, in which, however, it seems to be going on and there that members of the government are at least sloppy – and that is really a harmless expression – dealing with the law of incompatibility. The Committee chairperson, Mr Schultes of the ÖVP, shall be responsible for this Committee. One may already wonder how it can be achieved that, apparently for months or years, such an approach to the law of incompatibility in this committee is possible, which a member of the ÖVP is in charge of. Constitutional lawyer Heinz Mayer believes that the handling of the law in this committee is a disaster. – Quotation of Constitutional Lawyer Mayer. – He almost takes the Minister of Finance into protection by saying: If that's been common there for years, you have to ask yourself if it's really that bad. But that the law is handled in this way is a disaster, and that is actually a matter of the government fractions that have obviously allowed it for years. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is a disaster how this government deals with the law, and the negative hanging sign in this relationship under protection and also with the support of the ÖVP is Mr. Grasser. In this sense, it would simply be very nice if this negative hanging sign were simply to be mounted off.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15275	The next speaker is Mrs Stadlbauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15296	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Minister of Finance Grasser and other members of the government have committed a breach of constitution, as we have heard a few times today. What usually happens to members of the government around the world who break the Constitution? – Consequences are drawn until withdrawal. But what happens in Austria? How does this government react? – One withdraws from a crime and calls it formal errors. There are a few heavy circular envelopes, it is spoken of as human hatred, but in reality it is only a “formal error”. Ladies and gentlemen! I think what you're doing here is harmonizing. I'm just wondering: What are you a model for the population? None at all! However, what is particularly disturbing to me is dealing with the task of the Parliamentary Inconsistency Committee or with this disdain for parliamentary work in itself. In my opinion, the point is whether or not They decide for themselves, i.e. the members of this government, whether something is compatible with a ministerial, ministerial, State Secretary, State Secretary or whether the task of the Incompatibility Committee is to decide. I think it is up to the Committee to decide. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, in order to be able to make this decision, everything must first be notified. And this excuse that we have now heard again and again and again today from Mr Grasser, that everything would be all right anyway, because it would be clear by the reports that there is no inconsistency, is simply not valid. It would be exactly the same if a driver, when entering a traffic control, answered with No, even though that is not true because he does not think that he has reached a 0.5-promille. In this case, I see a three-stage crime by Minister Grassers, only in this case, because there are several cases, as we have heard several times today. First error: the non-notification of the shares immediately after the last National Council election. But perhaps you were among the representatives of the government who felt that the questionnaire they received would be too complicated. I would like to read to you the relevant question. Here's what it says: “Is a company owned by you, or are you the owner of shares in a company or other shares in a company? “ And then it is only to cross Yes or No. I really wonder what's complicated about it. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat admitted that she did not know that shares were, among other things, shares. However, I wonder if she does not know if Mrs Rauch-Kallat knew when she agreed to the sale of the Voest, which she sold. Did she and the other members of the government know what their government decision stated on this issue? Second mistake: moving the blame to the employees in the Ministry of Finance – again today – and also to the consultants. I think: Why spend so much money on consulting if the advice is anyway wrong? However, it is entirely unacceptable that you should be able to contact your employees. To blame, just like you did today. First, don't take the work of these officials seriously or you don't accept them, the work is out, and now you're thinking that you've been wrong advice. This is really a strong piece, Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Third point: the grasses’ basic accounting modes or: “The Minister doesn’t take it so seriously with the commanders!” or: “What do I do with a few zeros?” To remember: First we had the small error with the number of zeros; 0.015 instead of 0.0000015 when indicating your YLine shares. But that's no wonder when you're dealing with so many zeros all day, because some zeros don't matter anymore. However, the addition or multiplication of your shares does not run easily, but does result in a substantial difference in value of € 51 568.36 between what you have stated to the APA and what actually comes out when you calculate it. By the way: That's over 700 000 S. But what's the matter? “What does the world cost?” is your currency. Speaking of conversion: 1 € is 13,7603 S. Minister, I could take this week’s “profile” that you had difficulties at a lecture in front of a school class at the “GEWINN” trade fair with the commas, so we were back on the subject. Yes, this is a long list of errors that come along, and I think, Minister, it is not a cavalier crime, it is not a small Austrian dispute, as you have indicated at a financial ministerial meeting. I mean, you shouldn't act like you said on the radio on Sunday: If you've eaten something, you're trying to captivate. – No, Minister, it is more about: At last save us and above all the population, keep us and the population no longer maligned and finally take the consequences! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15369	Mr Dr Jarolim has now come to speak. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Other speaking time of the SPÖ: 3 minutes! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15387	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a disastrous picture that has been offered here today in the course of this debate as regards understanding of how to deal with the state's resources. Mr. Khol! I may appeal at the beginning: With all due respect for the difficulties you may have with the impartial administration of your office here in the house, but I may ask you to do so, in the interests of the whole, if you are chairing the presidency and if it is a massive, apparently party-political debate, try to have at least a quarter of objectivity exercised, because what we have experienced here today was, and I must say, really scandalous.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15412	Deputies! I could give you, like Mr Puswald, a call for order for this criticism of the Presidency. I'm not. I hold here to the example of Heinz Fischer, who at the time also took things very quietly with similar criticisms from the liberals. I am just telling you that, as I have interpreted the Rules of Procedure today, and as was the way in which the statements of speech on business dealing were made, the practice practised by the Presidential Conference. They're talking and get 1 minute more speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15440	Thank you, Mr President. I can ask you not to take this as a criticism in the first place, but it is, I think, an appeal, because it should not be the case that we are making such debates in the form in the future. It's mainly an appeal. I also think things are too valuable and too important to be done here with a small sidestep. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's a desperate overall picture. Federal Minister! If you present yourself today as a young, sympathetic talent, it may remain. There are certainly many people who say he's young, he's kind, but that's not the point here. It is about what expertise, with what honesty and sincerity you exercise your office. They say that one does not allow the competition of ideas so that the expertise of the subject can really be measured together. I'm allowed to stop you: We have presented absolutely clear evidence here last week that you yourself have provoked by making a review – and this really must be done on the tongue – of the correctness of your actions – you have had the problem with this association “New Economy”, which has contributed €175,000 to a homepage with very touching scenes from Mr Finz’s life – a commission led by Mr. State Secretary Finz. This Commission has now delivered a result. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria, which makes the officials of the Ministry of Finance international a mockery. Mr State Secretary, it is embarrassing! Either you have been forced to do so, or They obviously miss any competence. In both cases, I think it would be good if you, together with the Minister of Finance, would offer your resignation because that is unacceptable for this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr State Secretary! You have risen in your report to say that there are international experts, tax experts in Germany who believe there is no gift tax, and therefore, contrary to all other practices in that country, no gift tax would have been paid in this case. I may read to you what the experts you are quoting have replied to a letter that we have addressed to these experts because we could not believe that it can really be so that it is their expertise. We have the answer from Dieter Gebel, which is the Vice-President of the Financial Court and editor of one of the big German gift tax comments. He's clearly saying: In the case presented, “after that, a taxable grant at both levels” – namely both the association and the industrial association – “is considered. To the award awards I refer to the comment addressed by Prof. Dr. Doralt. – That’s exactly the opposite of what you said here! There is also another opinion by Dr. Dorazil. He is the Guru on tax law in Austria, and he says: “I share the opinions of Professor Doralts and Dr. Fellners – which you have also misinterpreted as your opinion – “in their critical opinion on the press release...” There is also an opinion from Kapp, Ebeling & Partner. Mr Ebeling is also one of the great editors of comments on gifts. He says – you have to break that on the tongue –: “The view expressed so far by the Austrian financial administration would call for too abusive a design if a large number of people (e.g. political supporters) wanted to tax-freely promote a candidate beyond the legally regulated donations.” – Do you want to have it even clearer? [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You said you wanted expertise, Minister! You said the ideas should compete here! You said, Mr State Secretary, that these persons had proved the legal status of the Minister of Finance and your model to be correct! - We read things here that are clear. We read here things that would logically lead to what we all expect from you and from the Minister, namely your resignation! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15520	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The remaining speaking time of the Green Group is 5 minutes, and I am therefore setting the clock at 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15538	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon! With all due respect for the fact that discharge offensives by a government party are sometimes necessary, I would like to ask you to: Explain to us the meaning of your discharge offensive! You will not all want to say seriously that the attempt of our side to document and investigate the accusations against the Minister of Finance here is that the actual incident in connection with Mr Matznetter, which you tried to prove in a shady argument, took place years ago! Following your argument, the Minister of Finance is using his scientific or inconsistency attempts by setting up either a private or a public homepage by taking funds from the Industrial Union and not taxing them, and by making himself knowingly or ignorantly guilty of numerous other violations, apparently a complicit of Mr Matznetter! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Do you know where you went? Do you really know, Mr. Amon? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amon.]] – Don't worry, Mr Amon! Don't worry! Next time, it'll be better! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] I would have liked to know the following: Mr. Finanzminister, you told us today that the meeting between Grasser, Winkler and Böhm, as described in the magazine “profile”, did not take place. You explained this and you did so as if you had already demented that this meeting had taken place. – You didn’t dementate my knowledge! My colleague Kogler pointed out to you that you have already dissociated a meeting, namely Mr Bischoff on 23 February. ==References== Today, you declare that you have never dissociated a meeting with Mr. Bischoff, the EADS Supervisory Councillor. – I am now reading to you what you are answering in response to the urgent request on 17 November. In June 2003, the following words were written: “I met Mr. Supervisory Board Chairman Bischoff for the first time in June 2001, the second time in March 2003.” You'll have the meeting of 23. April 2002, which you had to admit later, knowingly keep silent! [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] Mr Finanzminister, you cannot explain to me that you met with Mr Bischoff, the EADS Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and talked about your car preferences! You must not be serious, Minister of Finance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would have liked to hear from you again in all clarity – which the Minister of Social Affairs otherwise calls for – about this: Has there been a meeting or any agreement between Grasser, Winkler and Böhm? Did your assistants give you attempts to contact the magazine “profile” in order to communicate such a meeting: yes or no? – These are questions you should answer! Last point: Do you know, Minister of State, what has irritated me very much about your opinion today? – After all, sometime when it came to § 3 and § 3a of the Incompatibilities Act, you said that participations below 25 percent have a non-discriminatory effect. This refers to § 3, but I note that we are not discussing § 3, but § 3a here! With a justification, they come to § 3 and speak in connection with § 3, which actually links more than 25 percent of participations to very strict sanctions, in terms of participations below 25 percent of a non-discriminatory effect this law. – That is, you think that the law discriminates against participation by ministers if they go over 25 percent. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That's not true!]] Mr Federal Minister, I still think that this provision is too mild!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15604	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15619	I think that this provision is still too mild, because it does not actually protect us from these incompatibilities. However, the fact that you are confusing § 3 and § 3a and then still talking about discrimination and non-discrimination is a strong piece!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15646	The next speaker is Mr Haubner. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15665	Mr President. High house! Now we have heard the whole “fine” program of accusations from the SPÖ and the Greens. – I have here an APA message, in which it is entitled “Incompatibilities: SPÖ State Council shall report subsequently on the holding of shares’, inter alia: [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals]] “After the SPÖ had strongly criticized the unannounced ownership of government members in recent days, a SPÖ member of the state government from Salzburg now reported his share ownership.” [[Lively calls to the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Go!]] It also states in this report: “Today, Wednesday, the Incompatibilities Committee of the Salzburger Landtag dealt with a report from Othmar Raus State Council... In the course of this discussion, he insisted that the news was missing from him, which he immediately recovered. He just forgot that.” [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! How will your peaks in Vienna and Salzburg and, for example, Mrs Burgstaller deal with this? What do you ask for for Salzburg and Mr. Landesrat Raus? We are waiting for your answer! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15719	No further words are available. That concludes this debate. No applications have been submitted. Short debate on Question Time 711/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15741	We now come next to the short debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture with the order number 711/AB. The above mentioned... [[Lively calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I will continue: The above-mentioned answer has been distributed so that their reading by the scribe is not necessary. In the debate to be held now, each group can nominate a speaker with a speaking time of 5 minutes. The first speaker and founder will be given 10 minutes of speaking time. A member of the government who wishes to comment should also not exceed a speaking time of 10 minutes. As a founder, Mrs Beate Schasching is speaking. Speaking time, as just said, 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15777	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! 55 percent of all parents want it for their child and only 5.8 percent of all children actually have it, namely, a place in a full day school. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to find out, a few months ago I sent a question to the Federal Minister Gehrer, who had just discussed this subject, and I did on 10 June. In my opinion, the answer to a question was more than inadequate and full of gaps on September. Ladies and gentlemen! This has once again told me and us as a group that the Federal Minister Gehrer rejects responsibility for compulsory schools. It refuses to put precise figures and facts on the table in this regard, because it provides an answer for the federal area, but refuses to give us any exact number in this regard. Mrs. Federal Minister! In my opinion, this is a refusal of responsibility for education, and I really reject it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me, however, the fact is particularly surprising that 14 days later, namely on 24. September, we all jointly, so we from the SPÖ, have tabled a resolution and agreed to this resolution, which was on the content that – and I would like to read this now – the National Council welcomes the announcement of the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture, by 2006 to extend the voluntary afternoon offer for students by 10,000 care places, and requests that an Austrian needs survey for school afternoon care be carried out as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15819	Ladies and gentlemen! We are again approaching the sound level that led to an admonition at the beginning of the session. I'm asking you for a little concentration! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mrs. Colleague. [[Further calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I call Mrs Schasching.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15847	Thank you, Mr President. – What amazes me particularly in this context is the fact that suddenly a demand survey of 10,000 places for afternoon care is being carried out in schools. We agree or have agreed to this. However, I wonder who to do this demand survey now. The Federal Minister refused to mention a meaningful number 14 days ago, or said that she was not competent to provide us with information here. Mrs. Federal Minister! Please, who's going to do that? How long have you known that there is a need in this area? Is it not for a long time, for a long time, that it has been working in this area? It has not been invented by us before yesterday that there is a need in this area. On the contrary! How long do we want to watch? How long do you want to watch until we can finally meet this need for afternoon care places in schools and, as we say, all day long schools in Austria? Mrs. Federal Minister! I'm asking It therefore follows that: What is going on in the EIA with this debate? In the Styrian ÖVP, we have been able to be very reasonable in recent times, and, as I believe, we have also debated ideology-free. I am also very happy about the debates with the head of the state of Styrian ÖVP Dr. Andreas Schnider, who said very reasonable and clear that a basic pedagogical concept needs to be developed, which specifies exactly how children are optimally cared for in school all day long. Mrs. Federal Minister! Please end the chaos within the ÖVP in terms of debate around the school! Please sit down with these reasonable people so that we can come to the conclusion together to agree to this positive concept of the whole day school with a basic pedagogical concept. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I insist that this form of school, which we, as social democrats, have really been introducing ourselves for a long time and very much wishing, is also run free of ideology. In this context, it is about the quality of education and training. It is about addressing the needs of people, especially the needs of children, who want to spend the whole day in school, but also the needs of working parents and many single mothers who want to know their children safely and well cared for in the afternoon. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Forced Day School!]] Mrs Colleagues, talk to colleagues at the ÖPV in Styria! They have already said that it is an old fan of the ÖVP to always say “compulsory day school”. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! We hope that there will finally be a conceptual work in the Ministry of Education in the sense of the people and, above all, in the sense of the children, and not only the savings fund. We want to ensure pedagogical quality, which means a departure from the small educational units in 50-minute portions and a return to project-oriented, day-to-day learning, to encourage and support children. Teachers should deal with children who have special needs, but also special talents. It's supposed to go all day, and it works wonderful! If teachers can work with children for a whole day, there will also be a much more positive learning environment in which social competence, team capacity, democracy awareness and democracy can be trained, learned and developed. In this way, a climate is created that is for the benefit of both the children and the benefit of the teachers and therefore very much for the benefit of our society, Mrs Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I am also speaking here as a mother of compulsory school children, who very probably also have to think about how their children can be cared for in the afternoon. I would like my children to have the opportunity to spend the whole day with educationally trained staff and to use all the resources of a school. It should be ideally furnished schools with access to computers, the school library, an extended gym and all leisure facilities that can only be desired where children can spend the day together with their friends. This results in a wonderful social environment and positive learning success. Our family life in the evening would be school-free, because the children would have left school in the school and the family life could take place in the evening. It does not then have to be reworked, developed and explained, because the teachers have done this work positively in school. That would be the wish of a mother and of many, many parents, because that is what we know, 55 percent wish. Mrs. Federal Minister! In view of this, I believe that it is time to establish these equal opportunities in Austria! Affluent parents have always known that when they send their children to private schools that are open all day, they allow children a very good start to life, because there are all resources available for them. I want this kind of school to be possible for all Austrian children and that all can afford it, because our children are worth it to us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would therefore ask all of you to agree to our requests for them. We wish to extend all day schools over the next ten years to at least 100 000 places. We are not so forward-looking that we think it would be equal to 100 percent possible, but I hope that 50 percent of all schools will be conducted as all day schools. This would ensure both the freedom of choice you always demand and, at the same time, give all Austrian children the same opportunities. Voices Do you accept these requests and no longer take responsibility for the entire education system, Mrs Bundesminister?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15913	Mrs Gehrer spoke on an opinion which should not exceed 10 minutes in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15932	Mr President, the House of Lords! First of all, I note that we have carefully answered the requests for our knowledge. We have the actual figures of the federal schools and have then asked the countries to give us some figures on what they are now looking at after school. However, the data will be significantly larger if there is the Education Documentation Act, and I will be very happy if, on the basis of this law, I also have all the data of all compulsory schools from all the federal states. Secondly, I think it is strange that you do not remember in the SPÖ Group that you passed a very advanced law a few years ago. It reads: “All day school forms are divided into a part of a class and a part of the care. These can be led into separate or restricted sequences. For the management of a class with limited succession of the teaching and care part, it is necessary that all students of a class are registered in the care area throughout the week, and that the educators of at least two thirds of the students concerned and at least two thirds of the teachers concerned agree.’ That means: We have the legal basis that by decision by parents and teachers the whole day school as you wish can be introduced. It can be implemented in any place in this way. Furthermore, this law states: “In the case of a separate sequence, the pupils may be grouped into class-wide groups; the care member may also be used on individual afternoons of the week. The location of public schools throughout the day is determined taking into account the needs of the first instance of the school authority.’ — Quotes. That means: There is the legal basis for any variation of afternoon offers. It can be made at any location, and it does not need a central decree from above which determines that in that city and in that place it must be made. [[Abg. Arbitrators: If two-thirds are for that!]] – I think it is important that the parents are majority in favour of making the whole class mandatory to stay in school all day. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is more than the majority!]] – You have decided the law! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Yes, but it is more than the majority!]] I'm telling them: There are parents who don't want that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There are parents who want their children to go to the sports club or to the music school, and there are also parents who make resources available to the children in the afternoon so that the children are removed in an area in their greetings, where they also have friends. There are parents who don't want their children to be in school all day. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You don't want to understand!]] I say quite clearly: The question of child care and offers is not an ideological question, but a question of necessity. Children need our loving care, love and care. Either the parents' home is able to give them that, or, if this is not possible, they must be created according to the local offer. That's what I'm trying to do! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There are many different models for children of age. There is the possibility that the children are accommodated in the community's day care. There is the possibility of the mother-in-law. There is also the possibility to offer all day care at school. We will be very precise in the field of compulsory schooling, where the offers are currently being offered, and I will ask the local authorities, in the municipalities, to encourage everyone and to ask the mayors, whether we need a new or additional offer. I guarantee that I will make available the resources provided for this purpose for the additional offers. If there are about 10,000 places more by 2006, there will be about €9 million of additional resources from the federal government that we will make available. I mean, it's good and right that countries, municipalities and the federal government together raise the demand on the ground. The Federation makes available the resources provided for in the law, the community organizes lunch and additional care, and the parents make a contribution to this, which can also be staged down in social cases. Ladies and gentlemen! It's very important to me to say: The well-being of the children is our most important concern! The services that are necessary are to be created. I will make the resources available for this. However, we want to leave the parents free of choice whether they want to care for their children themselves in the afternoon, or whether they want to make use of an offer. I don't think that school and parents have to be completely separated, I don't think I'm from school-free parents' homes. I mean, school partners must jointly ensure that the children have the best care, and parents, school, community and public must make these offers together.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16048	This is the next Mrs. Dr. Brinek. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16066	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! [[Abg. Lentsch: (in the direction of Vice-Chancellor Gorbach) „Mr Vice-Chancellor! “ – She’s not used to it yet!]] [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach: Me neither!]] The interest in the party making the request is small. I would add a few additions to what you said, Mrs Federal Minister, and stress that for the ÖVP, afternoon care is not an ideological issue. It is about the choice that parents should have, and it is about the choice that students should also have, and above all, teachers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] The School Organisation Act provides the best basis for this. I would also like to remind you that in addition to the announced more and more afternoon services – announced by the Federal Minister, supported by a motion for a resolution here in Parliament... – No, you have not listened, Mr Jarolim! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But only announced! That's the problem!]] You haven't been watching again. Ten thousand care places are created, and there is now an afternoon service in the high schools – for example in the AHS – in more than half of the gymnasia. However, although I was quite sure, the hypothesis is that educational quality is offered only and alone in a day-to-day school. That's not true! This claim is untenable. This is a form in which one can offer quality, but also the limited form of the daytime home school can lead to the highest pedagogical quality. Make So you don't have a school form bad if it's not justified! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So your hypothesis is wrong! What's also important is: In different times and regions, children and parents have different needs. For example, what fits for a child care offer in Lower Austria, for example in Frauendorf an der Schmida, does not have to be suitable for children and parents in Vienna/Favourite. By the way, I have heard that the conditions are particularly good in Neulengbach with the children of Mrs. Schasching: 70 million schillings have recently been invested in gym, school and kindergarten. I think that's a path and a good model. I assume that in the future we will have to invest a lot of imagination in the afternoon care and that, in cooperation with the local associations and with the associations using free space and personnel resources – for example in kindergartens, in the music homes and so on – childcare facilities or clusters, as you always call them, will be created. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: If you have it! That's the problem!]] I am sure that the mayors, the municipalities, the national school councils will develop full activity because they are interested in young families staying in the communities with their children and not going away so that life in the communities does not become impoverished. What I would like to address is Mr Schasching's suggestion that a positive learning climate is required. To this end, I can say: Yes, that is what we demand, but it must not only be guaranteed in all-day school forms, but also in a form that, for example, greatly reduces aggression of changing school or teachers in the morning and leisure pedagogical care in the afternoon. So, too, the thesis that the learning climate is only good in all-day forms of school cannot be maintained. I assume that in the future, when it comes to practical success, we will join forces. The Federal Minister has said this, and the aim of this Federal Government is to increase the employment of women. That means: Child care offers must be created, and it is at the same time the right to take part until the children enter school. There also needs a new culture of cooperation in the enterprises. It can't be said, one expects the other partner to put down a child- and family-friendly model of working time and, for example, all part-time workers wish to work only in the morning. This will not exist, but it will also require a new culture of work and the organization of work, for example, that you no longer have to be present in the workplace throughout. We are all called upon to achieve an overall package of work, family happiness and afternoon care at a high educational level. Another small aperçu for Mr Jan Krainer, because he said on the last item on the agenda, it is not true that child care fees in Vienna would be highest. – I quote from ÖSTAT, Microzensus 2002 “In Vienna the care is the most expensive with an average of 150 € per month.” – The support with lunch costs 184 € on average in Vienna, then Tyrol follows, then Styria, then Carinthia, and last but not least, follows Vorarlberg. [[Abg. Krainer: Soziale Staffelung!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is a social struggle!]] – There are also social staggering in other countries. I quote ÖSTAT, so that's not a paper produced in any cadresmiths, but... [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is abuse of data material!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] This is not an abuse, but the summary of all available factors and facts. I also wish that in Vienna the last kindergarten year is free, because...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16224	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16239	... Integration must be, and afternoon care will be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16266	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16285	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Mr. Federal... Mr Vice-Chancellor – Excuse me! [[Abg. Brosz: It can be different tomorrow!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] First of all, I would like to deal with your answer. A minister is not easily quoted here in the House, but really only when a question response is absolutely insufficient. Mrs. Federal Minister! They think that we would write pure claims in our request without any factual background, for example, PISA is not a basis for system comparisons; we would draw conclusions that are inadmissible. - That's the first one. I could have taken all the PISA studies, but I only have the last one you quote yourself here. The table of contents would already tell you: This PISA study is full of system comparisons! This is the meaning of this PISA study: not only to determine the quality and the state of the art in the individual countries, but also to ask why this is so and what are the reasons. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I can quote a sentence – everyone will probably take his side out –: “In countries such as Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands and Austria, the school system, with its strong linkage in various educational courses, supports the social segregation effect.” – “Supported” sounds positive, but in reality this means that our school system is strengthening with the strong division that the social origin is still essential for the children. This is something we need to reduce equal opportunities for all children. We must draw these system comparisons, and also the consequences of them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Secondly, You say, Mrs. Federal Minister, the compulsory schools are not in your competence. – I thought I wasn't reading right! The Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture is the top school supervisor. The National School Councils, the District School Councils are your authorities, and you're responsible for it, all the way into the public schools. They also pay for the full day forms, the teachers who teach in the afternoon. You spend the money from your budget, but you don't care, you don't know how much that is and how many people it is? – There you can only say: That's not to be grasped! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's incredible!]] Why is it possible for the Ministry of Education to spend a lot of money, but do not know where and for what schools and for what purpose? – This is a bad leadership of a resort, as something else cannot be described. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: This is stupid if the Minister of Education knows nothing!]] Now again on the whole day school and all day care: You mentioned this as an ambitious goal – and there you have our full support, because I believe that no one in this House can refuse it! – to make our school system one of the best. That is what every country wants, and it is a commitment to the future and to youth. But then we simply have to see that the advantage – the pedagogical advantage of the quality of teaching – of a school system all day long is not that you simply say that you depend on more care in the afternoon, but that in a pedagogically meaningful course you can include different parts of classes, build up leisure parts and create a school for the children as a living, learning and experience space. This is then the quality of a new school for which we are acting and in relation to which we should agree. I share your opinion, which you say in the last paragraph, that it is necessary to do just that you talk to the people, but we also need to do convictions about what we know is the best school system, the best for our children. Mrs. Federal Minister! They have used the title of Hartmut by Hentig’s book “The School Rethinking”. It's a good title, but they should also take the sentence to write the Hartmut by Hentig exactly to these PISA studies: “One of the measures agreed upon by the Ministers of Culture...” – based on PISA – “... is therefore certainly the most important thing for all day schools.” – I thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16375	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16448	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Before, Mr Niederweiser: I think the best thing for our children is certainly not the mandatory all day school! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I don't think you know yourself!]] There is certainly an opportunity, however, to discuss this thoroughly with each other. But we liberals say quite clearly [[Abg. Parnigoni: All right?]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: In clarity!]] We stand for a voluntary full-day care, and this is already an essential difference to also want the children to be taught all day, that they go out of the house at 7 a.m. or 7 p.m. and come home at 7 p.m. – from Monday to Friday or from Monday to Saturday. Is this Austria, is this the future for our children, who also imagine you? – I can’t imagine! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sburny: Do you know what all day school is?]] However, we want the offers to be available, of course, and that is why there was also the motion for a resolution that will have a further 10 000 places available by 2006. Now, of course, it is about how this can be financed, and I also say that it must be manageable. – There I am whole Your opinion: If afternoon care costs 185 € per month, this is often not manageable. That's why we should think about it – and quickly! – how you can ensure full-day care, which is finally also manageable. That's the point: Finally, it turns around money. Mrs. Federal Minister, you are referring to the School Organisation Act. - We still have to discuss that. I also mean, it's too little, and it's a step that won't happen. I am really pessimistic that teachers, parents and the school community committee agree on full-day care – perhaps in some cases, but in many cases not. In order to ensure these 10,000 more places, we will have to take new paths. I know it's not in the government agreement, but it's got us time faster than we believed. That's probably what we're all doing. It was clear that something had to happen in this direction, but no one correctly estimated how rapidly this topic would actually catch us up, that is, also because of a changed working world. The working world has also changed so rapidly, and now the awareness of the parents who no longer want their children to sit alone in front of the TV at home. If you look at today’s “Kronen Zeitung, ” you can read in it: “Children’s language is getting worse”. There's something about it. The children come home from school, sit in the afternoon, often alone, two to three hours before the TV. The neighbor might be looking by. We all know these cases. That's a problem. That the children can often no longer speak a grammatically correct sentence, that is also a problem. They already speak the television language in part. Of those who work in teaching – as an educational speaker, I am so; I am now traveling with many teachers, almost as in my school age, often the only non-teacher, but that makes this position all the more interesting – I hear again and again what I have heard from my children, especially the disciples. About the sentence: Can I have a yogurt? Instead: Can I have a yogurt, please? Can I have a yogurt? Can I have a chocolate? You'll know that. This is such a common point of view among children. You don't get the predicate over. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It must be a common effort or effort, but to reflect on the change of the Law on the Law on Service of the State, especially on redefining the pot C. We'll have to redefine him. I believe that this will be the only approach, and we will succeed. We have been in good company since yesterday, since the CSU clause in Germany. In the future, Edmund Stoiber will also require teachers to receive child support and child care on two days a week after lunch break. Bavaria and Austria have often chosen a common procedure, we have a similar mentality. So we're in good company. I am sure that, Mrs Bundesminister, we will succeed in finding a common solution in constructive discussions so that we can create these 10,000 places by 2006. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16542	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Mr Jarolim has now, I believe, exhausted his call quota until 6 p.m. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It was very charming!]] - Please, Mr Brosz.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16576	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The answer to the question contains some interesting remarks. The first thing I have found is that you claim that the discussion participants in the teaching committee, and there the experts, would have claimed that questions of the organization have no influence. I would just like to remind you of Dr. Haider – one again; there are already several, but that is the one from the PISA study. He said, I think, as follows: If you look at the organization that six years of age over five hours in blocks with five minutes of break, if at all, in the class, then you have to say: In the face of this learning organization, you have to grasp the brain! – This is probably a different statement from the one you made here in your answer to the question. Point two is something I can no longer hear, and you, Mrs. Federal Minister, when you quote the PisA study, point out that there is little connection between family prosperity and student performance in Austria. I can only recommend looking at page 238 of the PisA study. I try to explain again what one has tried to present here, apart from the quote: “Austria and Germany are countries in which the average economic, social and cultural status of schools has a significant influence on student performance.” – This is a rather clear statement. There is the example of a fictitious student in Austria. Two ways are presented. One example: We have two students coming from the same social class. Average. One student goes to a school in a socially well-situated environment, in the highest quarter, the other student goes to a school in the lower quarter, i.e. at 25 percent. The same social environment. The difference in this school structure causes a performance difference of 59 points to be expected, which is one and a half categories of benefits. The other example: We have two students who come from a very different, socially weighted situation. They're going to the same school, and there's hardly any difference. What does that mean? – Let’s consider: Which students do they think are going to situated schools and some schools that are less likely to situate? It's exactly the picture: It depends on the residential area. That depends on where you come in. The point is: That's drastic in Austria. But you have been refusing to perceive this for years, and then you have a quote – which is logical, by the way, too – which is the result: It depends on which schools you go. That depends on the chance. It is then less important whether I come from a particularly good family situation or not, but it is important to which school I come. That's what shapes in Austria. Look at Scandinavia. That's where Dr. Schleicher tells you that you can send your child to any school in Finland, the educational opportunities will be the same. That's where we want to go. We do not want social conditions to be so decisive as to schools as is still the case in Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Next point: All day school. There's a little bit of a difference to the SPÖ. I mean, I understand the pragmatic approach. With this Minister of Education, it will be difficult to change into a whole-day school system. That's what we've come to understand. Mr Rossmann talks about a class period from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. and then you can do something between them. This reminds more of a prison with free time when you travel 15 hours a day for school. This does not really have something to do with a whole day school model, as we understand it. The point is that it is not just about caring for, but about implementing educational reforms. I still didn't understand how this should look in your model. One part remains at school until noon – nothing changes at all; there are still 50 minute blocks, without any connection – then there is a part that remains in the school. There seems to be no television, so the students are better off, as Mr Rossmann meant. So the other part goes home to television. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about the fact that there should be other ways of teaching throughout the day. By the way, we are talking about the fact that with this, relaxation phases, learning phases, project lessons, so all that you can already see in Scandinavia, when you enter schools, is also possible in Austria. If you then quote the option, I'll just tell you one – and that's also our difference to SPÖ: If the model were realized, 50 percent of all day schools, 50 percent stay the same as it is now, then my fear is that the social sheath would be a lot apart. If you understand this as an intermediate step and say: Okay, it's no different right now, then we can get in touch with it, but that can't be the end point. When it comes to creating a socially just school system, this pedagogical possibility – the teaching of funding, the social conditions – must apply to all pupils, because it is likely that all day schools will be used primarily again or stronger – let us say so – by children coming from a socially higher level. We know the phenomenon, especially when it comes to payment. Therefore, as an intermediate step, it is okay, as a goal, I believe that a whole day school system that does not support social segregation is the way of the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16649	All four political groups have commented on this issue. That is why I am closing the debate. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16667	We shall return to the agenda, namely points 3 and 4 concerning the Court of Auditors. At the beginning of the urgent question, Mr Dr. Herzegovina was speaking. He is therefore speaking to continue his speech. The remaining voluntary speaking time is 5 minutes. “voluntary” I emphasize.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16688	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a somewhat unfortunate situation now, since the President of the Court of Auditors and, at least once, the Secretary of State are not present, but I think I could deal with FPÖ a little at first, so to speak, to warm up. In the first part of my speech, I offered you an incredible listing in which, in connection with the accident pension tax, the head and the barber would be praised for the fact that they had done something; my colleague, Lapp, will go into this case. But what else has the FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, applied for in recent times: Sidkel? - Schmid? Forstinger? It is immense to see – at the very moment – that Forstinger, the ex-minister, the blue great rock, rises again in the ÖBB and travels along and cashes. Or Reichhold? Ladies and gentlemen! You have, in any case, proved that you have no government-enabled staff. What you have predicted today as a “government new” is not to be surpassed by ridiculousness, that is only more a pitiful spectacle. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors in its report III-29 of the Supplements criticises total advertising expenditure and calls for a reform. I am convinced that Mr President-in-Office of the Council will be appointed to speak on this subject. The FPÖ – Mrs. Bleckmann – did it, I believe. June said: Of course, okay, that's what we're doing. – what is to be considered by such announcements is known – and the ÖVP – it is good that at least you are there, dear Mrs Minister – has said: We have no interest in this! So as far as government advertising is concerned, President Fiedler can say whatever he wants, she doesn't care. The government has even gone up to the statement: We do this anyway, as the Court of Auditors would like. – This is despite the criticism of the Court of Auditors and the call for a reform. I mean, This is also an incredible process! The demands of SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16723	Colleague herbs, one second! I would just like to make sure that Parliament's management has informed the President of the Court of Auditors that the debate is continuing. I didn't check that. If that's not done, I ask you to do it. Please, honourable Member, continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16746	Thank you, Mr President. – I can present to you the demands of SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, the Court of Auditors' recommendations must be implemented and directives must be presented on how government advertising is to look. At first, I mean, there should be ads in general: This pays the taxpayers, the taxpayers of the Republic of Austria!, and not anything else. Then you'll think about a lot of listings. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I watch ads in general to catch you as often as possible and then knock on your fingers, and there I see an listing “KHG”. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Which one?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Which one? Subscribed ads?]] The Minister, Mr Molterer, was so pleased about the brand “KHG” on Sunday that he has plugs and autograph cards. There I see “KHG”, but, a little shocked, I see a rat at once. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Why shock, herbs? That's your job!]] ‘KHG’, ‘direct investment’, ‘ security investor’. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think that's what it's like to do with the brand "KHG" and a rat advertising for securities and shares. I reject it! But think about it, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! What must have happened if advertising streets sit down and say: KHG, rat and stock, that would actually be very good for an up-to-date listing! How should it be about the reputation and credibility of a Minister of Finance when such ads are placed? Mr. Molterer, look at this in peace and quiet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] I do not think that Mrs Colleague is going deeper. I deeply reject that! Is a negative increase possible? – I fear so, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary Finz loves the Office of the President of the Court of Auditors. [[Secretary of State Dr. Finz: This is immense!]] He's now saying it's huge. I know from many sources that this threatens the Republic of Austria. But, ladies and gentlemen, a President of the Court of Auditors, for whom there has been sounding laughter in connection with the taxcausa grasser among the journalists in Austria, is unthinkable. Ladies and gentlemen! I call on you – all political groups – to make this clear to the EIAs, to the FPÖs and also to the Greens that this is not possible. This has to be ruled out today, and it would be very helpful, Mr Finz, if you were to do it yourself, because that cannot be because the government is beginning to control itself with its own staff a year later. If you don't do this and don't make it quite clear here, ladies and gentlemen, then you're going to face up to a new democracy-political abyss! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16835	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. The watch is gladly set to 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16856	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The President-in-Office of the Council is not present at the moment, but I can thank him from this point of view on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the constructive, open, fair and critical cooperation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Federal Ministry Act 1986 regulates how the individual ministries have to carry out their information and publicity work, but it remains open in what form and in what variety and presentation this should be determined and made concrete. I have listened to colleagues of herbs today and found that if he has to define the word “advertising” and the word “public” he himself is uncertain and does not know what to include in which category. The Court of Auditors has made some suggestions on this, which is true, but we must also ask ourselves the principle question in political work: How much public does it need, since today our citizens are confronted with advertising and information? It is often difficult to compare subjective perceptions with objective needs. The Court of Auditors examined the selected advertising measures of the Federal Ministry of Safety and the Generations of 2000 and 2001 in the Perception Report III-29 of the Supplements, and in short identified the following shortcomings: There are currently no directives to regulate and coordinate public relations. There was a division into seven sections and one department. There is – admittedly – a lack of declaration, and there was an uneven distribution of the advertising budget. 56 percent of the advertising budget was used for Carinthia and Styria, which reflect only 22 percent of the population. So the distribution key is also a measure shown by the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2000, €0.56 million was used, with €2.45 million in 2001. This is due to the fact that there was an information campaign on child care. This is the main part of what has been spent here on advertising and public relations. I claim that this advertising and publicity is very well justified. She's an investment in the future. Childcare money is a milestone, and it is important that positive things, which are implemented by this government, are also carried outside. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The child care allowance was heavily criticised before its introduction. No one could be responsible for eliminating or shortening it today. No, we have the task of promoting the families and especially the children even more. In this regard, we agree in the meantime – this is reflected in some of the contributions I have heard today – and I have heard that, in the opinion of the SPÖ, the childcare allowance should even be increased. So it all speaks for it. But I would also like to make a contrast here and ask the question: What if the trade union deals with the money of its members – which I don't have to answer – entire newspapers with advertisements, representatives in newspaper advertisements personally attack, print posters and turn advertisements on? Is that all normal? How much is good enough? I believe that the current budget for advertising and public relations is not in a position to face up to the advertising campaigns of the trade union in any way. The Court of Auditors therefore examined, analysed and made proposals for improvement. There are four specific proposals which we welcome, which are taken seriously, which help to improve efficiency. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: That's his job!]] Yes, the Court of Auditors has its responsibility to criticise it, to encourage it to make proposals, and we will also endeavour to implement them. The information and advertising measures should be centrally controlled. That is, we should use synergies, that is, all ministries should take action together. However, it may also be that the flexibility and up-to-dateness of advertising and public relations suffer. As a second recommendation, it was clearly stated that advertising measures need to be better and more clearly declared and marked. We should fulfill this mission. The third measure is the uniformity of the distribution of funds to the federal states. The fourth measure: There should be general guidelines for all information and advertising measures. And the Court of Auditors would like the information and advertising measures to be coordinated and thus implemented more effectively. The conclusion from this Court of Auditors report is that we need advertising and public relations on political issues in order to bring our message to the public. In conclusion, the Court of Auditors has clearly presented its proposals and we have the task of making improvements here. However, I prefer money in public work and advertising and in positive campaigns than in interest for old debts. Our policy will also allow us to do advertising and public work for good work in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16904	The next speaker is Mr Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16923	Mr President. In essence, I also wanted to address the areas that my previous speaker has done – Mr President, whose cooperation with us has already been praised, unfortunately, is not there – and then on the question of advertising by the rulers – I am adding as soon as I am: on the part of the respective rulers; there you can talk about it in a calm way – and still briefly on another area. But to the First of all, I think it is remarkable and should be kept at least once in favour of the protocol, which has happened recently in the discussions in the Court of Auditors Committee. I would mention once again – and also for the President of the Court of Auditors, if you so wish – that we had to experience there that a massive criticism by the Court of Auditors of operations in the field of the Ministry of Finance should have been reinforced by the fact that another opinion was commissioned – but not just a so-called opinion of the typical experts of the Minister of Finance, but it has turned out that this was actually an order for immediate opposition. That is, the expert has written a beautiful cover sheet on which he writes: In accordance with the agreement, we provide you, the Ministry of Finance, with the counter-examination to report... – and so on – in particular on 8.1 of the Court of Auditors’ report – and so on – up to 13 years of the Court of Auditors' report. Ladies and gentlemen! That's where the fun stops, I think. Again: An expert is given an order to consult someone who will then be ordered in a writing procedure that was not yet lupen-free – and this is still a careful formulation, because the Court of Auditors has written this procedure in terms of ground and ground. And in order to disprove this criticism, another opinion will be commissioned – again at the expense of taxpayers! That's off! I should like to quote the President of the Court of Auditors – at least at least – who, at least at the time when Mr Finanzminister was watching me with this so-called opinion, did not even know about it, and who, in this process, meant that this could only lead to the fact that, if this procedure were to be judged, the Court of Auditors would be effectively abolished, because – and now literally – it would be cheaper anyway. – So this has to be said to the plenary, it cannot go unsaid, and we will not like that in the committee – and I have actually felt support from all the political groups – I must say! Mr State Secretary, who also had great merits in the Court of Auditors and who is now in the Ministry of Finance, please take this message with you, welcome it there, otherwise we will still have a lot of turns in here! On the matter itself: The government's advertising measures, as they have been mentioned here, belong to the area of classical control. I do not want to stop for a long time now on the question of who the good and who the bad are, but one thing the Court of Auditors makes quite clear: In order to better “handle” this difficult question, it would be useful to adopt directives. The Court of Auditors is even proposing a small seven-point programme – if only I could find it in my documents!; I must now recite it externally – namely, item 5, where, for example, the content of the information comes before the advertiser. This is, in itself, a difficult question, but at least an approach. That is to say, the Court of Auditors recognises that very often the substance of this application is not at all the subject matter. There is already a question of whether the only basis there is for these things at all, namely the Federal Ministry Act, which, among other things, also the Federal Chancellor's Office's public relations, if one wants to do so, the Federal Government's essentially home, can mean that one really does party advertising. If you are not willing to delineate this, just as the Federal Chancellor's Office – as you can now do nothing for it, Mr State Secretary – in his reply to the Court of Auditors, the follow-up or even the issue of such directives would endanger the necessary flexibility – I quote literally – then I can only say: Congratulations! A nice flexibility where the practice is to conclude that one should not be able to distinguish between party advertising and government advertising – at the expense of taxpayers at least! I'm sure that's not how it is! How does the taxpayer, the taxpayer, come to pay squarely – if you count all together over the year – pictures of the heads of the Federal Government in advertisements? For what? There I am punished in Carinthia and Styria, because it has previously been assembled that 26 percent or how much of the advertising budget is used there, although only 22 percent of the population do so! How is it that my constituency must look at tax payers' images of government members, which are always particularly high at its cost? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is also a question of specific incompatibility. And because we're already in this constituency: I have to say that in Styria you have... – Mrs Steibl, we will do better, of course, with your help – and if you move across, we will have this debate here too! [[Abg. Steibl: I'm just excited about what Mr. Anschober is doing in Upper Austria!]] Of course! If you sit across, we will have this debate here! What did you expect? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Neudeck.]] But let's get back to the Styria so you can find more fun on the thing again. In Styria, the government has had similar problems, but they have come so far that they have tried to commit themselves. They have said that at least the process is inappropriate, at the expense of taxpayers, namely those of the Steirers, the images of the government members take more place than the text. At least you could get through here! I'm just saying, There can be wiser directives than those, but what I do not accept is that the Federal Chancellery will extend to the President of the Court of Auditors who has now arrived: This recommendation is actually quite “for the fish” because then we can no longer do what we want. That is the essence of this statement, and as I said, the fun stops! I say one last thing now because our group also wants to take up research funding today and will be that we do not necessarily conform to the Court of Auditors' report here in every passage. [[Abg. Steibl: Thank God!]] I only add – now that the President is there –: Nevertheless, thank you for all the intensive work! You can also see something else. In any case, we want to take advantage of the opportunity, because otherwise there is very little opportunity – which is significant – to talk here in plenary about research and technology funding in Austria. This report is a good occasion for this. Thank you for that too!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16999	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17017	Mr President of the National Council! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr State Secretary! It is interesting that the negotiations in the Court of Auditors always take place very objectively and consensually when it is not a matter of attaching to someone in the case of audits carried out by any companies belonging to or majority of the Federation or by ministries or other organisations. Where it is primarily a matter of continuing to drive the human hatred already mentioned in the emergency, and the procrastination of a person is in the foreground, it becomes extremely inaccurate and is certainly difficult to establish an examination cooperation. Therefore, my particular thanks also to the President of the Court of Auditors and his staff, who are doing in all matters in a very critical, but evenly critical manner, often taking into account the fact that they are examining afterwards and that one has just been there or there a year or a half or two years later, when it was the one who had to decide something ad hoc or not foresaw a development that might have happened. I think it is a bit unworthy when Mr Herbe – the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – now calls for anyone to be excluded from a function. [[Abg. May. Lap: Ha, ha, ha!]] I have not known whether State Secretary Finz is of great interest and who wants to return to the Court of Auditors or who wants to inherit the President, but here I now demand that all political groups say that he must not be allowed to do so, that goes too far. If legal framework conditions allow, this will also be a possibility. I don't want to hurt him now, saying he's supposed to be, but excluding someone from the front, that's kind of like sheathing. Because he was in the Grasser Ministry, he can't be anything! – I don’t really think that’s a positive approach, but it’s probably the way you want to try to improve your performance. But you will not succeed in this way with the critical population. I'm allowed to put two or three issues on the tape. The audit of the Bundespensionskasse has shown that equity has been reduced in recent years. We were informed by the board that this reduction in equity is due to the fact that they have, of course, fewer payments at the moment and that they now also have to make provisions for the administrative costs of disbursement, because the later pensioners and pensioners are not to be charged with these administrative costs. To what extent this regulation is useful and perhaps not to be considered and whether the deposit is now being formed at the right level, one could certainly still discuss it. As regards the pension fund, we have also been told by the Executive Board that a balanced balance sheet is to be expected for 2003 and profits are possible for 2004. An interesting topic was the increased family allowances. As a result, it appears that, whether now wanted or not, substantial sums have been paid out through falsely completed forms. It has now been assured that the first step will be to carry out more controls and, secondly, the Federal Office for Social Affairs and the Disabled will be involved in the new procedure to check whether the medical opinions in this form are credible. A little bit of a shot in the knee, I think, happened when one compared the advertising costs of the governments in recent years and then had to find that the Federal Chancellor's Office spent an amount of € 2.8 million on information and advertising measures for 2002 and € 10.3 million in 1998. Colleagues today did not say that it was wrong – so it should be – he said only that you could not do anything because it was the ÖVP at the time. – You said this today, my colleague, at the beginning of your speech, when you were standing here with this beautiful poster; You can read it in the minutes. I think you have to say that everyone is always responsible for his field, and that you can't talk about the respective coalition partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17054	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17072	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Mr Neudeck, I believe that there has been some agreement in this House for some time now that we are depriving ourselves of evading their own names and presenting them here a little bit in a stupid light. I'd ask you to stick to it. - For one thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: It wasn't me! That was the Court of Auditors!]] Secondly, Mr Herz has made it very clear that the expenditure at that time was quite high and is to be criticised, but they were jointly carried out by ÖVP and SPÖ. But they are absolutely no reason to apologise for getting as much money out now! That's ridiculous, isn't it? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Less! Less! 20 percent...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has looked more closely at selected advertising measures by the Federal Government and has also been subject to an advertising measure by the Federal Chancellor's Office. This advertising measure means: “Austria Rerule – Future Without Debt” – an exciting title! First of all, the Court of Auditors has criticised the fact that there is no accompanying check that there is no documentation that there is no evaluation. This is at least €4 million. – Of course, you would think today that you are setting up such things! But if I were to look at the seven points of the general rules, I would think that there is one behind the point, and it is precisely this advertising measure that can be very well shown: “Rerule Austria”, that’s true, because every few months we have a new government, okay, that may be so, but “future without debt” is not true at least from 2000 to 2003! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: These are the interest of the old debts!]] And that is why we really need to make it clear that it must be true information that you pass on. . Every year the debt has become more, Mr. Cot! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: These are no new debts! These are interest rates of old debts!]] No, these are new debts! [[Further call to the ÖVP: These are interest rates of the old debt!]] Another interesting fact I found: With regard to these arrangements proposed by the Court of Auditors, the BKA considers that they adhered to German guidelines. – When I remember the statements of this morning that the devil is ruling there, I wonder: Why does the Federal Chancellery suddenly adhere to German guiding principles? – Interestingly, there are facts that can still be understood and imitated there, ladies and gentlemen. I then found something more exciting in this Court of Auditors report. This was about making joint purchases in the area of public information and public relations services, and I found that the Minister of Finance has to adopt a regulation to ensure that these public services can also be purchased together. He's supposed to have done that. But I wonder: Has the Minister of Finance also bought a single measure on this federal procurement agency? – I think no, because otherwise it would not be possible for the Minister of Finance to spend €27 million from February 2000 to today for him to represent himself and make advertising for himself. If he did so through the procurement agency, it would not be so easy, and especially as another Court of Auditors report clearly shows, it would no longer be possible to simply deal with the procurement laws and to consider his friends, his beneficiaries with orders. So, ladies and gentlemen, one should not deal with public money, and especially in advertising, because there is a very interesting knowledge of the advertising industry, which says that if the product is bad, à la longue is for nothing. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17182	I call Mrs Tamandel. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17200	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! I would like to refer to Bundespensionskasse AG and to it a little more precisely. The Court of Auditors reviewed in May and June 2002 the conduct of the Bundespensionskasse AG, which was founded in 1999. He noted, inter alia, that the tender procedure still carried out under a SPÖ Finance Minister was inadequate because a potential candidate could not find out that the Management Board’s activity should be carried out on a secondary basis. The admission of pension funds was therefore only carried out in October 2000 with a loss of time. For the investment and risk community, an annual average yield of 3.75 percent was generated with a careful investment strategy. In a performance comparison with the Austrian control bank, this is above the average of pension funds. Unfortunately, neither the surplus of 7.5 percent in the business plan nor the interest rate of 5.5 percent was reached. The BPK's original capital of €400 000 was taken over as a whole by the Republic of Austria. As a result of the failure generated in 2001, Mr Neudeck has already said it, the equity has been reduced from around €54,000 to around €346,000. This error in turn resulted in 37 percent of investment income being charged as asset management costs in 2001. In addition, on financial years after the 31st century, the The Administrative Costs Regulation shall apply on 1 December 2000. This regulation, based on a so-called unit cost model, required a higher dosage of administrative costs, which, in turn, significantly increased the debt capital at the 2001 deadline. According to the BPK's business plan, this provision was made on the basis of the administrative costs after the start of the pension of €60 per person and the current pension year. On the balance sheet date 2001, the target position of this provision according to the business plan was around € 565 000, while the standing position was less than half, so that this under-cover is to be offset within 10 years for a maximum period of 10 years in accordance with the Regulation. In the Court's view, the creation of this provision will have a particular impact on the results due to the high number of eligible persons – at least at the end of 2001 – over the next few years. However, if the actual administrative costs of the pension payment were significantly lower than the 60 € per person included in the business plan, the pension fund would have to approach the financial market supervisory authority immediately in order to adapt the business plan accordingly. The BMF also supported this view of the Court of Auditors. Especially in the case of BPK not yet active in the performance sector, it is necessary to check the selected unit cost rate at regular intervals for appropriateness. The Bundespensionskasse thus announced that it had already contacted the competent authority and was going to table an amendment. According to the expert association of pension funds, at the end of 2002, a total of around 344,000 employees were involved in a pension fund contract. In turn, this corresponds to a growth of more than 8 percent compared to the 2001 year of report. The Bundespensionskasse has a total investment volume of € 18.7 million, i.e. more than 20 percent of which comes from voluntary staff contributions. That's very pleasing. The annual total amounts have now grown to around €7 million. However, the benefits, which, due to the short period of time, only consist of amounts of compensation, can also be seen. After all, there have been almost 700 people who have received €253,000. The performance trend is already positive – and this has already been mentioned by Mr Neudeck – so that a surplus of around €50 million can be expected in 2003.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17258	Mrs Sburny. Same time of speech, but voluntarily. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17277	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr State Secretary! High house! I refer to that part of the Court of Auditors' report, which deals with research matters. The Court of Auditors' report deals with the level and development of research expenditure compared with the objectives of the government or government in recent years and with the structure of the Austrian funding landscape. In this context, it is noted that the research rate, i.e. the share of research expenditure on GDP, rose from 1.57 to 1.91 percent of GDP between 1995 and 2001. This was a relatively large increase, which was also necessary because Austria found itself in the absolute end of research funding. Since 1999, however, this summary from 1995 to 2001 has almost ceased to show, there has already been a dramatic flattening of this increase, i.e. the growth of research expenditure has been falling dramatically since then. For example, in the years 1999 and 2000, it remained the same at all, then a little more so. The aim of the current Federal Government, according to its government project, is to raise the research rate, as planned in the EU, to 2.5 percent by 2006 and 3 percent by 2010. However, this is – and this is reflected in this Court of Auditors report – not feasible in this way. This is already seen in 2002, when the objectives of the government were no longer achieved: 1.95% of the population were below the poverty line. At the last meeting of the Financial Committee, we noted that 1.94 percent had been reached. Thus, one has already remained below expectations in 2002 and what the Wifo calculated in May 2003 on the basis of the budget targets is that one will not even reach the 2% by 2006. This is presented in the Court of Auditors' report, which is also possible from the budget figures. The recommendations made by the Court of Auditors, namely that there should be a research strategy, have been adopted by the Council on Technology Development There are also many good recommendations, the problem is that none of them will be implemented. That is why the research rate also looks the way it looks at the moment. One point in these recommendations is the question of the structure in the field of funding in Austria. The support structure is much too fragmented. I am not talking about the two major funds, the FFF, the Research Fund for the Industrial Economy, and the FWF, the Science Fund, but about the more than one hundred other funding agencies that exist in Austria and where there is, in part, very little funding. This is a problem because it is not only about the quota, that is, the amount of resources, but also about a leverage effect: How do certain funds invested in this area, for example, affect economic growth or measures? It can be seen that Austria has a problem through the structure of small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. by a very high number of small and medium-sized enterprises, in which research funding has a problem in that it is not able to absorb even greater funds. A proposal that says that this fragmented research landscape is once a little summarized would also benefit SMEs in this matter if a new structure was created. It is simply that this lever effect is not to be borne if too few resources are used in too small activities. The extent is then only more at one or even below, with the lever effect also much greater. There are a number of other measures which are recommended and which, in my opinion, are not taken up or implemented by the government. One essential point is medium to long-term financial planning for the funds, which are simply all considered necessary. The problem is that the funds can only make long-term planning if they have a long-term guarantee for their budgets. However, they do not get them because the budgets are the same as they are: The research funds will only be allocated for over a year. At present, the funds have to expect anything to be shortened at any time rather than to be able to expect a certain degree of planning certainty. In fact, the Court of Auditors' recommendation to the funds goes back to the government, namely to ensure the Fund's security of planning in this regard. One last point: An international evaluation is required, this is in implementation. Since the beginning of the year, at least the large funds have been evaluated, which we think is useful, even if there is a lot of money, €400 000. However, what we do not think is that it will be restructured before the first interim report of this evaluation is available. This one was supposed to come out in October, we haven't got him yet. The question is: What can be done with an evaluation of €400 000 if, in the meantime, a lot is already being changed? – From our point of view, this is more wasteful than using tax money. Furthermore, I believe that it is unbearable for Members of the government groups to carry out the control work of the opposition with terms such as ‘human hatred’.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17344	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Bleckmann. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17364	Mr President. High house! I refer to the section “Selected Advertising Measures of the Federal Government”. Since the Federal Chancellor's Office has to inform the public about the work of the Federal Government, there are always these advertising measures, which are then again criticized by the opposition. I myself have said in an issue that there is a need to look at the guidelines, if there are any, and to think about what to do. [[Abg. May. Kogler: There is no one! It is in the report that there is no one!]] – You can think about what to do. When I look at the guidelines that the SPÖ may have made once, when I look at the figures alone, that the Federal Chancellor's Office spent €2.8 million in 2002, but in 1998 €10.3 million was spent – that was the time under SPÖ administration – then I am glad that we did not have these guidelines that the SPÖ had at that time. They must have been terrible, because everything has been skinned out to provide as much information as possible. They have now taken themselves back a lot. In this respect, the directives may not be necessary if you are already spending much less than they were in 1998. Look at the comparisons! These speak for themselves. Everyone who has been in the Court of Auditors has heard that the recommended principles of the Court of Auditors are in any case respected. That is also what these measures are all about. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Who says that?]] - Dear colleague! That is what the Secretary of State said. Faith You're not the Secretary of State, are you? [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: No word!]] - You don't believe a word? That's the difference. This is also the problem in the assessment that simply advertising measures are assessed by the opposition differently than by the government. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Then pay it yourself!]] However, the Secretary of State has also said that the central media purchase is currently being examined through the Bundesbebewerfs GmbH. If the test results are available, you will also need to look at them more closely. When I look at the comparison data: €10.3 million in 1998 is €2.8 million in 2002, so I do not think these directives are needed. These directives, which were applied by the SPÖ government in 1998, were certainly worse than the self-restriction that exists in the current government.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17439	I call Mr Reheis. Please, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17457	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Dear colleagues! If you look at what has been done in the past on advertising expenditure, you have to look at it more differentiated than just creating yourself here and counting on the past. The fact is that you are not prepared here and today to co-design and co-organise directives so that the Court of Auditors will not have to make this criticism in the future. The Court of Auditors notes that the limits of the permissible and unlawful financing of public works or information work have been reached if the content clearly withdraws from the advertising form. The Court of Auditors also says that public relations should avoid the impression of an advertising influence in favour of a party. The opposite happens! Indeed, it happens that elaborate ads and interventions appear in all media with unreal content; for example, “rerule Austria”, “future without debt” – a future without debt with this government does not exist at all; you prove this all the time – up to the false claim that “accident pensions are tax-free”. To do this, your expensive advertising needs to take place in order to convey to voters a very beautiful image of this actually inactive government. It is no wonder that the Court of Auditors has revealed this in its reports. What do you want to hide? – This is not a question of an opposition party, but is in a report in the “Economic Sheet” on what you actually did not do. I quote: What Black-Blue has been delivering for months, the cabaretists may feed, politics looks different. The list of remaining reforms, unfinished projects, never-ending projects is long. - Quote. To do this, you need all the bigger ads and advertising measures. They are not afraid to say the untruth in these ads, but they do not say to voters that the Cabinet Schüssel II, this black-blue government, is already in the last steps and that bowls and grasses are a false... – Yes, that would be a superinserate and would, of course, also have the corresponding truth content. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That would actually be a superinserate!]] – But you don’t confirm in the corresponding ads that you continue a wrong budget course. They do not say that the population is becoming increasingly burdened and the purchasing power is weakened, that you are making debts rather than making structural reforms. They also do not provide impetus for the economy in 2003 and 2004. Apart from budget cosmetics and expensive advertising measures, there has been nothing in this government. That is why this federal government is vague and inactive. Finally, a quote by Christoph Kotanko in his comment of 11. In October, in the “Kurier” entitled “Sounding Ear Figs for the Government”: “How diletantic black and blue works shows an overall statistics: Last year, the Constitutional Court examined 62 laws, only 19 held the examination. 43 laws have at least been partially repealed. This means that 70 percent of the legislation under review was not or was not constitutional in all parts. A shame for a government that had sworn to make everything different, better." With this finding, ladies and gentlemen of the Black and Blue Government, neither expensive ads nor superlative or dishonest self- praise are useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17497	Mrs Lentsch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17515	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Reheis! Every policy must be applied. This is a fact that should actually be aware of anyone who deals only with politics in any form. [[Abg. Reheis: But with the truth!]] The better a policy is, the more intense it needs to be applied or the more intensive you need to know about it. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: All the more expensive!]] If citizens or people are not informed enough, if they know too little, they will rightly be skeptical. [[Abg. May. Kogler: “Future without debt”, that’s a total nonsense!]] We see it again and again: In all the reforms that we have made in recent times, the demand of the people was that the government should be even more informed, that the government should make it clear what it is all about. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] In the case of pensions, this discussion actually took years, yes, you can almost say, decades. If we had made this so-called pension reform 20 years ago when it was necessary, we would have saved the discussion and the advertising budget today. But the SPÖ Federal Chancellors have always meant: no pension discussion before elections. And the elections came over and over again, every four years. [[Call the SPÖ: Kiss!]] There was also a pensioner's letter in 1995, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the meantime, I think the message is through, now every Austrian or every Austrian knows that we need to reform our pensions so that this system keeps this good system in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the Voest debate it was the same thing: There is really no reason why the state should produce steel. – This is a statement that should also be known to you, because your Federal President has made it, among other things. For this reason, all those responsible had to be or should be privatised. However, one must also explain this to those people who do not buy shares daily and are not financial experts. [[Abg. Reheis: How Grasser!]] We've been telling people that you've been afraid with slogans that you're standing your hair up to mountains. I'm just thinking about the statement: This evil federal government wants to sell the Voest to the Russians. That says a lot, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, policy needs to be informed, which is a debt of ours and not a debt of the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Then you should inform correctly and not wrong!]] We'll do it! They're scared. We'll tell you the truth. I find the suspicions of the opposition unique. They assume that we are supposed to inform unilaterally to the Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Listen to me! They assume that we are in truth doing party propaganda instead of clarifying matters. The Court of Auditors is even trying to do so, although things are very clear and very transparent on the table. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Of course, you have your rights, and that is good because we live in democracy. But the government also has its possibilities, and that the government represents its work as it sees it, and not as it sees the opposition, you must not be surprised. [[Abg. May. Kogler: It's about tax money!]] If I remember your SPÖ chancellors starting from Kreisky to Vranckky and climate, then I have to say they were all not just orphans when it comes to selling their policies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: This is important information for the population!]] Even the so-called spin doctors had to come from America... Oh, yes, we know him very well, only you can't distinguish it because you've never been to the government! [[Abg. May. Kogler: To do this, you will get party promotion for party advertising! Don't you know the difference...?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I find the two figures so wonderful that my colleagues from the FPÖ have brought. I love them so much that I have to repeat them. It concerns the expenditure budget of the Federal Chancellor's Office for Public Relations in 1998 and 2002. These two figures speak a clear language in favour of our current Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, because in 1998 there was no ÖVP Chancellor in God, and the expenditure for the advertising budget – my colleagues have already said – amounted to over €10 million while it was over €2 million in the previous year. I think if you sit in the glass house, you shouldn't throw stones.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17721	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17740	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Respect and thanks for the work of the Court of Auditors, but I ask: Who does it use if no one responds? Erich Kästner once wrote when I thought quite: The way of the world is worldly, it is probably again due to an ear fig. – These ear figs get education and get the universities, and I will explain to you why, and at least in this second part I am probably in agreement with the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors, in its Perception Report, represents the research organisation and structure in Austria and primarily criticises the division of competence. Now I am not talking about the different funding institutions at all, but I am talking about the three ministries – if you take the Ministry of Finance to do so, there are four ministries – who should and should take care of the agendas of research. It can be seen that between the economic and labour sectors, the financial sector and the science sector, there are no mechanisms for voting on how to organise research in Austria, how it should be funded sustainably, and what strategies to pursue in research. However, a steering committee was set up – that sounds good – only does the Court of Auditors aptly, but not surprisingly notice that there are no protocols on this. We'll see if something changes. The Court of Auditors' record of perception is – oillinger holds him in hand – bound in a beautiful blue book, the front page presents the Federal Eagle – very high – but those who do not feel bound by criticisms, suggestions and analyses are the Federal Government. They have criticized for almost decades the abuse of private medical fees in the university and public sector – nothing has done! You have criticized the fact that no coordination of research between ministries takes place – nothing has done! That is, all that is in this book is actually relatively non-binding, and the brave, proud federal eagle is actually reduced from the Federal Government to a harmless canary bird, if you don't finally – well sure, Mr. stupid! – take this criticism seriously and enter into a dialogue so that something does happen. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Well, well!]] Even the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Industry are beginning to agree to the concert that research is unable to do something. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You say that the Federal Eagle is a canary bird!]] - As if, I said. You should have learned the conjunctiv. We are now in the educational debate. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] What I further criticise is that one is courageous where, despite the fascism or the conversation about autonomy, political influence is constantly resounding. Who was sent by the Federal Government to the Council, who, in the truest sense of the word, governed the universities? When you look at that, almost 50 percent of people who were in the National Council election in the Personencommittee are in charge. I ask you: Is that a coincidence? – A small rest comes from striking connections, but to beat each other and add cuts to the face is not yet the criterion of intelligence which enables someone to advise a university. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In addition to what the government always announces, and to the infinite discrepancy between what is taken vaguely into the mouth, and what is then really missing, I must say something from my observations of the last months to the audience as well: Almost every plenary session is now starting with any declaration of government. A autumn program will be presented, the winter programme, the spring and the summer programme will follow. Since there are only four seasons, which means that you can't beautify and explain the government and its work without rest, you're looking for a new vice chancellor for a change, and that's when you've represented the fifth season through him. [[Abg. Reheis: Fasching program!]] I'm really wondering: The re-establishment of the Medical University of Innsbruck alone costs more than € 1 million of additional administrative costs ad hoc. A working group of the rectors' conference, however, estimated over €4 million per year to be additional costs if these two previously united universities are to run separately. The Court of Auditors knows that Innsbruck still has no rector, and I could do it for you, why not. Gehrer is accused of breaking the law in a demonstration by tomorrow of all those involved and all those responsible at the University of Innsbruck. I can't do this now, but I can say she didn't act in accordance with the law. Linking this with additional costs is an acrobatic act, which has a lot to do with gymnastics, but very little to do with science and research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17818	Mr Principality is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17836	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Research is the most important investment in the future. The Court of Auditors has also dealt with this issue, and I should like to repeat, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, the words of thanks from Hermann Gahr – you have not yet been able to be present at the beginning for understandable reasons – for good and constructive cooperation in committee meetings. The examination of research agendas at the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology and the other ministries concerned has strengthened me in our goal to increase the research and development quota to 2.5 percent by 2005. We've done a lot for it now. The Court of Auditors looks forward to improvement and expresses legitimate suggestions, but also appreciates the efforts that have been made to this end. For example, the share of gross domestic expenditure on research and development in 1995 to 2001 was increased by 49 percent to €4 billion. The Court's suggestions are a valuable aid to make research and development more efficient. We have undertaken to prepare our country accordingly for the challenges of the coming years. With a comprehensive cooperation and with the help of the population, this will also succeed. The Court of Auditors is doing valuable work in this regard, as it helps to eliminate existing double-tracks and to deepen cooperation. And, of course, we are working on the implementation of the suggestions. Two examples: The Court of Auditors has recommended extensive cooperation between the ministries responsible for research-related tasks, and the deepening of cooperation in the field of research with the federal states. Both suggestions have already been received and intensive work is being carried out. We have already achieved a lot, but a great deal of road is still ahead of us, and we will succeed under the competent leadership of our federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Nice to see you!]] – Mr Oellinger, it is not my problem if you cannot do with a competent federal government, you have to think about it yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Where did you find a competent Federal Government? Please tell me the address!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A number of times have been mentioned. Colleague Herbs has criticized the expenses of the Federal Chancellery, the Government; Mr Gaßner has been on the same track. However, I would like to make a comparison of figures which goes a little further than has already been mentioned, namely the comparison of expenditure under an ÖVP Chancellor and a SPÖ Chancellor. The advertising measures of the Federal Chancellery amounted to € 2.8 million in 2002. In 2001, they made up €5.27 million and €2,000 3.87 million, including the introduction of the euro, which of course caused additional costs. In comparison, the advertising measures of German Chancellor climate cost – it is actually due to the National Council election on 3rd June. October to be valued only half a year – in 1999 € 5.24 million. In 1998, the cost of advertising, which Austria had under the Presidency in the EU in the second half of the year, was €10.3 million. Perhaps some in this house should see the beam in their own eye before they discuss the splitter in the eye of the other.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17908	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17927	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentary democracy belongs to the fact that parties, of course, apply for their work, their ideas. In this House, we have also decided on the promotion of the parties, which should enable all of them to do so at the same time. It is not understandable, however, that the government, with its majority, is increasing the burden on the population and, at the same time, is not spending money on party advertising and lobbying. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is party advertising, based on the example of the not yet existing health plan. Two days before the last National Council election, the “Kronen Zeitung” was accompanied by an advertisement, namely the Austrian Health Plan. These are: This is an advertisement that has been received by all readers in order to encourage a purely jubilee brochure for the government parties, in which there is no material content in itself, but that is to say the health policy of the pre-government. Health Secretary Waneck does not act as a candidate official in this brochure, but in his capacity as Health State Secretary. These measures were, of course, financed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The fact that it is advertising is clearly understandable is because it says that the Federal Government has now drawn up a health plan for the first time. I then asked several questions and also received different statements on them. Federal Minister Chief said in June of this year: With 1. This health plan will enter into force on October this year. Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat has recently said that a presentation of the health plan is not yet available. This advertising for the government has cost the taxpayer a total of €137,000 – that is 1.9 million schilling. The plan doesn't exist until today. This clearly shows the failure of the Federal Government. This is an example of many where the criteria of the Court of Auditors are not applicable, in which the government is trying to give a better light to the missing content and its failure, and it is also an example that confirms that the application does not even partially correspond to the facts. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Neither will x-te government reform change the lack of content nor the inconsistency of the Federal Government. A real change is announced, but it can only be done through a new government.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17972	The next speaker is Mr Ledolter. The clock is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17990	Mr National Council President! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The fact that the Court of Auditors' critical and relevant reports are a welcome occasion for the opposition to stage itself here in the House is a legitimate right. The fact that the opposition – which it has demonstrated all day long – is a thing of the matter, because the government, as mentioned by my previous speaker, is very competent and well-founded, is also active and comprehensible, because it simply lacks the better ideas, because the change of reform is not present and because it is, of course, easier to shake people and drive campaigns than to stage with positive ones. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I feel that it is an absolute low point when a long-standing official and employee of the Court of Auditors, who, in his quiet, factual and competent manner, makes work as a State Secretary in the Federal Government, namely, Dr Alfred Finz, is called into question the qualifications for a position which he has not sought and for which there is currently no need for decision-making and action. I find that embarrassing in a way that I almost miss the words. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] – The President of the Court of Auditors is not speaking. We have an active and very reliable President of the Court of Auditors, so speculations that are put into the world are without a proper and well-founded background. But back to the Court of Auditors' Perception Report, to the IT-based administration in the German army. This is a matter which the Court of Auditors deliberately dealt with in a constructive manner in 2001 and for which there have been supplements in the months of May and October 2002. It should be foreseen that there will be two different areas, namely the field of supplies, field and aircraft equipment, the equipment for the troop, which has been managed computer-supported since the 1970s, and the sector of economic goods, so to speak, human logistics, food, clothing, accommodation et cetera, to the spray, to the sports and alpine equipment. Value: €37 million, 30 000 items. There have, of course, been measures which, over time, have suffered a veritable setback, especially on the occasion of the cooperation with NATO in the framework of the “Partnership for Peace”, than suddenly other criteria with regard to the compatibility of the two systems had to be established. To get it to the point: Domain-owned software has been developed. There has already been great progress with the warehouse software. And I hear from the head office of Minister Platter, who once again took a new start, that it is no question that the competent, constructive suggestions of the Court of Auditors are taken up and implemented, namely to collect the material-tribal data of all economic goods, as a result of which the utilization of economic staff – at least about 3 300 cadre members and 1 000 basic defence servants – is to be examined and, of course, a project controller is also to be ordered in the house. Overall, a model how in a constructive way the development of a truly interesting area of activity can be managed.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18042	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18060	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you see Mr Finz suffering so quietly from the Court of Auditors' report, then you sometimes have the impression that his competence as highly praised by the ÖVP cannot be as well developed in this function as at times when he was working in the Court of Auditors. [[Ironic cheerfulness of the Secretary of State Dr. Finz as well as of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: It is not possible to look for joy more than the State Secretary!]] [[Abg. Owl: You can't deny the body language!]] Secondly, a comment on Mr Lentsch's comments. Mrs Lentsch, if you are here to illustrate the suffering and the bitter loss of the government parties so exemplaryly, by giving examples of how urgently it is necessary for the Federal Government to make even more advertising, because what is behind this increased advertising, namely the legacy and the bitter work that the Federal Government has to deal with, because reforms have not been made for 20 years – and this is already a dangerous threat, because if they have not been made for 20 years, the suffering of this Federal Government is even greater and therefore the advertising burden is all the higher! – if you conjure all of this, you can’t justify it anyway – and nothing can do that! – that this Federal Government, especially individual members of this Federal Government, is irrationally dealing with the funds for information and actually use them for advertising, as has hardly been seen so far. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] As an opposition party, we have already experienced various shades of coalitions, but what has happened in recent years is unique. Let me give you an example: Accident pension. It introduces the taxation of the accident pension – year 2000, 2001. Then there is a knowledge of the Constitutional Court by which the accident pension tax is lifted. What does the Federal Government, the Minister of Social Affairs, do? – Although as a Social Minister he has always represented this accident pension tax from here – not with conviction, but yet with conviction – he is acting as a Social Minister, in which he, together with the State Secretary, says: We resolve our promise and lift the accident pension tax! – Have I ever heard such a promise from the Federal Government? [[Abg. May. Kogler: They introduced it!]] Is there a basis for this, is there a decision by the National Council to abolish the accident pension tax? We would have liked to have, but you and the Federal Government have refused. And then Federal Minister, with his State Secretary, who is now attached to him or is “delivered” to him, turns himself up and says: We're going to make a promise! – What promise has the Federal Government made? Eliminate the accident pension tax? – No, the Federal Government has introduced it, but not abolished it! Nevertheless, that's in the listing. And that's where you tell us in this house that all this is right and okay? Next item on this listing First of all: [[Abg. May. Kogler: With tax money!]] The accident pension tax was abolished by the Constitutional Court. Secondly, It was withdrawn retroactively for the years 2001 and 2002, not for 2003, since 2004 already again. In other words, the information provided by the Minister for Social Affairs is also factually incorrect, it has a gap which cannot be allowed in the function of a minister. With this disinformation, it is wrong to approach voters or citizens and to say: We poorest, people are so uninformed, but that's not our fault, and that's why we have to spend even more money! I already see the time when the Minister of Social Affairs, precisely because he has misinformed, perhaps replaced by the next Minister of Social Affairs, will again make an accident pension relief promise campaign. But what interests the citizens, and how, do you think, is that justified? – From the law by no means, but only by your willingness as a majority of governments to simply tolerate such practices of a minister: We're not looking! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Your recipe: We do not look at this, we take it, we are so poor, but so unthankful, and yet we continue as before, that is not to say, we know that, and you will certainly get an account for this recipe, if not by the Court of Auditors, who cannot do it through its function – it can only draw up reports – but nevertheless by the electorate.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18145	The next speaker was Mr Faul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18164	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Although the Court of Auditors' audit report on federal pension funds does not necessarily include the major ignition material, the conduct and, above all, the perforation this state pension fund is clearly the disadvantages of a private – in this case state – insurance, which is the basis for an investment-orientated contribution deposit. As in the case of pension funds for our Members, for example, or – as recently shown – for the pension funds of the ORF staff, the proceeds obtained from the stock exchanges are far below the promised and, above all, below the expected revenues. For me, this raises the core question: In times like those in which the stock exchange is subject to so great fluctuations worldwide, can the life-time security of millions of Austrians be subject to the fluctuations of stock exchanges? Can people who have worked well and, above all, hard for their lives be expected to see their supposed incomes, which they expect from claims in the second and third pillars of the government, suddenly disappear, because even best institutions specialising in life planning cannot respond to such large periods of time? Can one imagine to people in Austria that, for example, they fall around their total revenues like many people in America, because highly-dominated companies with fraudulent balance sheets keep their performances on the stock exchanges as high and ultimately coincide like card houses? Think about the Enron pleas and the bankruptcys of other large companies. Finally, many people were affected, for example, I call the teacher's pension fund, which can only benefit 40 percent of the expected pensions from the proceeds. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Party! Because you like to look at Germany and refer to Germany – we have heard it often enough today – listen to what CDU and CSU politicians say about pension insurance in the second and third pillars in Germany. I only heard Norbert Blüm yesterday, who says: It may not be that fates are being traded by millions of people on the stock exchange and are exposed to the random gains or losses that the global economy on the stock exchanges is currently producing! In our country, I think, it will have to be so that in a payment procedure that can be calculated for us, the younger generation will stand up for the age insurance of the older generation and the state, the Republic of Austria, will also be committed to contributing to the provision of old age insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18206	The next speaker was Mr Kaipel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18224	High house! The tombs of the government speakers of this morning have once again and in quite an impressive way revealed the chaos in this government, which is an unending will. There is continuity at best in the broken election promises. For four years now you have been dealing with internal problems and find no time to deal with the problems of the country. The “quality” of your work has been decided very impressively and repeatedly by the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, it is very sad that after four years you have still not understood that because of bad work also by so expensive advertising does not become good. In this short time you spent €35 million on advertising, €23,000 a day; that's the amount a worker deserves for hard work in a whole year – and that's what you spend day by day for advertising! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] There is no doubt that Grand Master of Waste is the Minister of Finance; he is the most expensive consultant. – It is all the more embarrassing that, when his own errors are revealed, he knows nothing but to say that he has been misadvised. In this respect, the Minister for Finance and Social Affairs has nothing to do with the following: While the livelihood of the sick and the weak is increasingly deprived, expenditure of almost €10 million on advertising measures is being spent – and in the context of the Social Minister, a privilege sum is growing, which is looking for the same. On advertising expenditure in the Chancellor's Office – which has already been mentioned – with the campaign "Future without new debts": The fact is that in this short period the new debt increased by more than €12 billion and that the campaign costs of over €1.6 million were also financed by new debts. The Court of Auditors proposes a clear system to prevent this waste policy. And what is the reaction of the Federal Chancellor to it? - We don't need it! Since the clubman of the ÖVP meant here this morning from this pult, others would envy us about this federal government, I say to this other: You can have her!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18285	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18303	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! [[The speaker put a panel in the direction of ÖVP on the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Grill: I've seen that! - But they don't all see!]] One of my previous speakers has said: A message must be delivered to the citizens! – I have a message here that has been brought to the citizens who can only be described in such a way that there was obviously a “creative” way of dealing with the truth, in connection with the advertising campaign for accident pension taxation. In the case of the accident pension tax, it is true that the blue-black government, the Cabinet Schüssel I, introduced it for 2001 and 2002 that the Constitutional Court then abolished this accident pension tax – but here it says that this government would have done so. [[pointing to the panel]] – So such “messages” do not need citizens! [[Abg. Neudeck: There you can see how the advertising works...!]] It must be recalled that the approximately 110 000 accident pensioners in our country have suffered loss of one third of their income through the taxation of accident pensions. These 110 000 people, with a contribution of €172.5 million, have been paid into the budget, to the "grasser-case", without even seeing a cent or euro. Ladies and gentlemen! Such “messages” are quickened by a policy that is far from the reality of the people who are far from those attitudes and attitudes, according to which, for example, disabled people in our society are supported and promoted, vehemently rejects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is here in this listing that the government was able to delete this tax for 2004 but that it is – you hear and marvel! – for 2003 this tax returns again. – So there is the diletantism of this government: This tax was abolished by the Constitutional Court for 2001 and 2002. In 2003 the accident pensioners will be paying back to the budget – and in 2004 it will be cancelled. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has shown in many reports and statements that it is very essential and important to keep to precise guidelines, to topics, to directives. – In the case of such high expenditure on advertising, for which taxpayers need to pay €23 000 per day, Austrian taxpayers can only say: Good night, government!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18371	The next speaker was Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18389	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Clearly more than €4 million in advertising, advertising, propaganda – and that in just one place; caused by the “Sparefroh der Nation”, by Karl-Heinz Grasser, Federal Minister of Finance! I don't want to keep you away from some details, just a few scumbags from this probably endless list of possible friendship services. Even if you may not want to hear that – I am particularly devoting these numbers to the FPÖ colleagues, who always use very sharp tongues for 23 hours 59 minutes a day, and in the last minute always get the big bite basket hanged and suddenly get very quiet –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul]] €163 000 for a PR campaign to better represent your own achievements – Mr Finanzminister, this has not really helped, as we know! 145 000 € for the ever-known yielding and rescued pension expert of the nation Dr. Bernd Marin – I want to save myself a closer comment on this! € 326,000 for information on the zero deficit, a virtual “event” that has never actually happened – this is actually a strong piece! € 508 000 for the campaign [[Call to the ÖVP:Social Democratic!]] “We secure the pensions!” – Actually, it should be called: “We rob you of the future!” – and for that, 500 000 € is too much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! More than €4 million is being powdered to present itself in order to prefer human activity and serious politics – and who knows whether this was the end of the flag rod of money was wasted. Investigated are these dubious gifts of money all the time! I would now like to allow myself to say a few words about the exhilarating excitement of Mr Neugebauer – I do not know if he is here at all – on the alleged “verbal attacks” in the above Austrian election campaign, which I have, by the way, experienced physically and myself. I only remember the following: “Haschisch in den Trafiken”, “Uncontrolled Mortgage”, “Halbierung der Familienbehörtung”, “3 € for the litre gasoline” – for this red-green horror, in the last National Council election campaign, all kinds of lies were strained. But it's not a problem, it's known all over the world. On the weekend there is the possibility of confession! Mr Pühringer spoke of a "Saubartl" election campaign. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Was it!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Yes, that's what Mr. Landes Captain Pühringer said. You'll remember! And his clumsy attempts to describe this statement with above-Austrian fables and legends were a little weak. But they always say: Don't be sad, Social Democrats, you have to endure this! Finally, I can say: Whoever distributes must also be able to plug in!, and that would have to be best known to Mr Neugebauer!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18454	The next speaker was Mr Puswald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18473	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. State Secretary! High house! - Dear friend, I greet you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] So that we can't be blamed again, we'd run Dirty Campaigning, I can quote the media that's not known to be exclusively in bad red hands. There are headlines on the Court of Auditors reports that read: “Rechnungshof criticises black and blue personnel selection”, “Documents of the staff advisors destroyed or. ‘ANNEX’, ‘ANNEX: Only one of the three appointed members of the board is sufficiently qualified, “contract clause missing”, “Inconsistencies at Postbus AG”, “Cost-intensive, Umfärbelung” at Asfinag, “New member of the board without a written contract”. And then maybe the headline from the press: ‘State-reported: Spezenreiters expensive depolitikisation’. – It is then pointed out that the Court of Auditors is right – and we have discussed this in detail in the Committee – to criticise the circumvention of standards, among other things, and in particular by Mr Finanzminister, who, although he himself puts himself on the flags, is so beautifully written out and done according to all the directives on procurement, but then it is forgotten during the process of imposing this obligation on himself, and that will cost millions and millions of millions. But not only that simple legal standards are violated here, it goes on: Also, constitutional law is not necessarily the favorite of this unfortunate black and blue coalition. [[Abg. Scheibner: Be careful!]] Blue-black coalition, if you like, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Abg. Scheibner: Happy!]] Unhappily! If Members Neudeck and Ledolter did not at least object to the fact that they could present themselves as future Presidents of the Court of Auditors as State Secretary, I would like to take this rule and also the other members of these groups to heart: Please study the federal constitution, because that would be the next unconstitutional act you are planning. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Substances of the Constitution: They are obviously already part of the daily programme of this government. I was recently criticized by Mrs Fekter for talking about Husch-Pfusch-laws. Two days later, all the media write and point out that of 62 approved laws 43 laws – more than two thirds! – are unconstitutional. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen, to your Minister of Justice too! In order to remain equal to the constitutional irregularities: The fact that the Minister of Finance does not take the Constitutional Law so seriously in terms of incompatibility is one thing. But that in the Subcommittee, Mr Tancsits, when I refer to the Constitution, I condemn the Constitution – yes, worse can one no longer disqualify in a rule of law than if someone calling on the Constitution has a glorification of it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Chancellor of the Federal Republic then fits into this picture, because what does he do? – As always, in good manner, he does nothing. He'll take this off – free after: Sitting of Bull of Austria. – What I'm correcting: There's nothing far and wide from a cop. He doesn't do much about that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18540	The next speaker was Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18559	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This government is known to be nothing too expensive in some areas, it costs what it wants. It spends taxpayers on the most expensive fighter jets on the market, although they are suffering from serious shortcomings, as last confirmed by the German Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Scheibner: My God! Who wrote you that?]] It spends millions of euros on consultants who in many cases have received lucrative contracts against the rules of the Procurement Act; million euros for advertising agencies that either distribute government propaganda or market the Finance Minister – brand KHG. Unfortunately, you have not given an important task: an assignment to someone who explains to some members of the government what the rule of law and law mean. These wastes are widely known. Less known, but fortunately shown by the Court of Auditors, there are shortcomings which occur at the internal end of the Ministry of Finance in granting family aid. Some examples: There is not even a staff information system in the management of the family aid procedure, which can be used to obtain semi-extensive data. Each company or institution which carries out a cost calculation knows how indispensable this instrument is. It seems that the Minister of Finance can give up on this. Secondly, Although the media recently reported intensively on fraud cases involving officials of the financial office, the Federal Ministry of Finance did not make any visits to state aid offices at all. On the contrary, it recommended the financial country directors to distance themselves from inspections! Thirdly, Especially striking, because they shed a significant light on the contradiction between self-representation and reality, are input errors that have taken place during the recording of applications for family aid. As the government boasts itself to have established a modern administration, financial online is propagated as the yellow by the egg, e-government is in all its mouths – and then it turns out that one is not even able to insert simple control mechanisms into the recording forms. Ladies and gentlemen! The list of shortcomings and errors within the responsibility of the Minister of Finance is long and can be read in the Court of Auditors report. You get the impression that the wrong place is saved. Working internal processes, which benefit both citizens and staff, seem to have no priority. The contradiction between PR-seem and far-off reality in the Grasser resort is obvious. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ does not take note of this Court of Auditors report, for which I thank Mr President-in-Office and his staff for its excellent work.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18601	Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18620	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! As a constitutional speaker of my group, Mr Puswald has challenged me with his remarks, because he has accused the government of a somewhat blatant approach, if I may interpret freely, of the Constitution in the legislation. [[Abg. May. Worm: Mr. Tancsits!]] Member Puswald, you are not yet here in the House for a long time and have not experienced that time when there was still a completely different way of dealing with the Austrian federal constitution at the time of the bill of law and passed legislation. In fact, there has been a two-thirds majority in the House, where your group has put the Chancellor, and there it has been made very simple: Any provision of which one feared that it might not be subject to constitutional control has simply been raised with a majority of two-thirds in the constitutional order, and so again and again with this abuse – I am indeed deliberately saying abuse – prevented any control by the Constitutional Court of Justice. And yet, Mr Puswald, in 2000 there were percentage points of criticism of the Constitutional Court's legislation, and that was still the legislation of the old coalition with two-thirds majority. We're going another way. Of course, the legislator tries, as far as possible, to put his ideas into a law. Of course, the expertise of professionals will be used here, but we have heard it today: There's just an opinion and an opposite opinion. But that is the meaning of the control of the Constitutional Court: that it makes a clear check whether the federal constitution and the basic constitutional principles have been respected. If not, then the Constitutional Court will give the order to repair it, and if so, the law is in existence. That is the rule of law, Mr Puswald, thank God now, under this coalition, is actually being realized at 100 percent – and not as in the time when your party has put the government and by abusing the constitutional provision precisely this rule of law, the control of the Supreme Courts, has been eliminated. This criticism, I think, is completely wrong in place. We stand by our laws, and we also stand for the control of these laws by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18659	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We first come to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of the Court of Auditors' Perception Report (III-29 of Supplements) on sub-areas of the Federal Government's conduct. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall vote on the Committee's request to take note of the Court of Auditors' report (III-13 of Supplements) on sub-areas of the Federal Government's conduct. I would also ask the ladies and gentlemen here to give their consent to a sign. – This is largely accepted. 5. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (203 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Shipping Act (245 d.a.) 6. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (204, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which a federal law on cable cars is passed (Seilbahngesetz 2003 – SeilbG 2003) and with which the Railway Act 1957 is amended (246 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18721	We now come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mrs Lichtenberger, with a five-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18745	Ladies and gentlemen! As before in this House, we come back to the evening transport debate. This debate usually takes place in the evening hours and then becomes fun. I would like to say a few words on the first point, namely the Promille border on shipping on the Lake Constance, following the debate in the Transport Committee. At present, the Promille limit of 0.8 per mille is regulated for all those driving vehicles on the Lake Constance. We Greens are at any time available for an initiative to reduce this limit to 0.5 promille. The 0.8 promill is due to the fact that this is an international obligation and that this law has obviously been stored in the ministry as well as a good steak – however, I believe, but is already almost lost, as is a good steak, which is too long. It would be very interesting and also necessary to reduce the limit to 0.5 promille. For professional drivers there is the 0.1-promille limit anyway, and this is also correct and necessary, because the Lake Constance – so my colleague told me – is also a focal point of accidents on the water. What is still an unresolved problem is control, the form in which it should take place. However, the central point for me in these two congested transport applications is the new cable car law. Ladies and gentlemen! This cable car law is the implementation of an obligation on the part of the European Union to meet safety standards for cable cars which are not covered by the Railway Act, as has been the case so far. It is basically positive that we are creating our own, concentrated legislative work here, but it would have been even more positive if one had adequately responded to the terrible, horrible accident of Kaprun and had introduced stricter review intervals for cable car lines. Ladies and gentlemen! In this law, we are satisfied with a five-year review interval, and I think this is scandalous. Because of this sad accident, of course, we would have the obligation to carry out stricter controls. Unfortunately, that's not all. There is also a lack of control staff. It is even explicitly in the government template that there is far too little human capacity for those who have the control. This has also motivated us to return a negative opinion on this law. For me, however, there is another point. The recast of the regulations for cable car lines in a separate law would have given the opportunity to finally remove some old, completely outdated provisions. I call two of them: Railway companies are regulated in a similar way to the railway sector in a wide variety of rights. This is understandable because of the history of the origin, but no longer in modern times, ladies and gentlemen. You can do it today – and I ask you to let yourself be broken on the tongue! – for a cable car system as well as for a railway. In the case of a railway, you can discuss a expropriation, even if I do not think it is useful, if someone, as it were, blocks a railway track for personal interest. But for a cable car that does not fulfil public mobility purposes in Austria, but is built exclusively as a tourist facility for the pleasure of people, one can no longer be expropriated in a modern community today, ladies and gentlemen. I can't! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But you have done so in this law. The cable car companies, in Tyrol in the Volksmund conspicuously called “Liftkaiser”, are privileged to go no more. It is only when EIA obligations, i.e. environmental impact assessment obligations, do you have to deal with environmental issues accordingly. Neighboring rights are removed from the “lift icons” as nothing is done, and that is unacceptable! When I compare this with other construction facilities that are being built in Austria, I have to say: This is an inadmissible privilege, which also contradicts the Alpine Convention, which is sufficiently celebrated in this House, because there is the need to take environmental protection into account and the alpine requirements, to take into account sensitive alpine nature. We all enjoyed this Alpine Convention, including the ÖVP and even some of the FPÖ. Nevertheless, in this law you have left the Alpine Convention outside. Further privileges are that, for example, no consideration is required of hazard zone plans, something for which every house builder is obliged to build a support wall, but this obviously does not apply to a cable car operator at all. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot agree to this law, because it means an inadmissible privilege of a clique of power that exists in our valleys – and which, like any citizen and any citizen, has to submit to the normal justice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18820	The next speaker was Mr Regler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18839	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We have two proposals in the field of transport today. I would just like to say so much about the amendment to the Shipping Act: It is necessary to ensure that the alcohol provisions of the Shipping Act can also be implemented on the Lake Constance, where there is another international regime, e.g. by means of safeguards in the event of the alcohol impairment of ship's leaders or the acceptance of the ID card. High house! The important, big law we decide today is the cable car law. From my point of view, this is a real epochal law, and I had actually expected there to be unanimity in this regard. The fact that the Greens do not agree is not surprising, but we are quite used to it. Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger! I am certainly also very sensitive about the Alps. I think about how many three- and four-thousanders I climbed with skis and skins in winter and how I went up the Himmelhofwiese as a Bub in the steps of the stairs and then went down. So I know the soft tourism. Today, however, it is extremely important that ascent aid is provided for tourism. However, I cannot understand why the SPÖ does not agree, which one must recognise a certain degree of economic competence. So far, the cable cars have been regulated in the Railway Act. They are also railways in the technical sense, because they drive spore bound. We construction engineers here speak of tracks of special design, which is the technical expression. It has proved appropriate to adopt a law of its own for the cable cars, in which important provisions of the Railways Act are certainly adopted; for example, the Railways Expropriation Act, which has been excavated, where you really have legal certainty, continues to apply. The reason for this own law is the EU cable car directive, for which a common position could be reached under the Austrian Presidency in the first half of 1998. I saw this as one of the biggest successes of the Austrian Presidency at the time, because we have succeeded in extending our safety rules in cable cars across Europe against the resistance of states such as England or France. It is also through uniform law our cable car manufacturers, our cable car industry like the The company Doublemayr is much easier to export to the other countries. So we really hit two flies here with a blow. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The situation of competence was very difficult in this law. There have been two points which are now different from the previous Railway Act or the Commercial Regulations. The first is the competence for the domed chairways. There are 242 such doppelbar chairways in Austria. They do not differ in technology from the domeable cable cars. However, the countries felt that they should take over competence. A very good compromise was found in long negotiations from my point of view and also from the point of view of the economy: With regard to concessions and building permit, the competence of the Ministry of Transport remains; in terms of operating authorisation, that is, once the train is built that the operation can be taken up, and in terms of monitoring, the competence lies with the head of state, where the head of state can, of course, also use particularly certified bodies for inspection if he does not have appropriate officials in the country who can handle it. The second area of competence is the towing lifts. We have 2 300 tow lifts in Austria. Here, too, the competence, which has so far been with the District Headquarters, travels to the head of state. They are now subject to the procedure applicable to cable cars in general. As I said, a very, very good solution. I would like to mention that in Austria 550 million people are transported by the cable cars. These are just as many people as all the cars transport in Austria per year, and - be careful! – three times as much as the entire ÖBB transport in one year. It sees the inconceivable economic importance of the cable cars. I believe that to address Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger, we do not have to worry about the Alpine Convention and the associated tourism protocol, including the environment. The environmental laws of the countries remain to be observed, and also the Alpine Convention with its appropriate protocol is to be observed as an international treaty. The seat is coming to Innsbruck, so the authority will certainly be watching about it. So, as the last one, I'm left to thank you very much. I would like to thank the Federal Minister and the Secretary of State for the presentation, which was really matured and after long, long discussions, very much, also the officials of the department, especially at the Council of Ministers Dr. Kühschelm, who was a positive and competent contact point and brought the whole to a good end, so that I can only say more today: High House, I ask for your consent!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18906	The next speaker was Mrs Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18924	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with the amendment of the Shipping Act, because this is the way in which the Bodensee-Schifffahrts-Verordnung, where the limit values for the taxation of water vehicles are now being established under alcohol-influenced, is implemented, and the Shipping Act is expressly extended to the Lake Constance. According to In-Power-Trees, the federal army with alcomats can carry out routine controls in the future. I just hope that enough staff is available. That's it. In the field of shipping, steering with up to 0.8 per mille alcohol in the blood is possible, in the context of commercial shipping only with up to 0.1 per mille. Ladies and gentlemen! A suggestion from me in the committee was – and I am giving Mrs Lichtenberger's right – also to think about the fact that the Promille border, as it applies in road transport, is also reduced to 0.5 in the shipping sector, because I believe that this is a way of ensuring more safety – safety for users of the most diverse transport, unless the car, whether the ship or the railway. 3.5 million people were transported by the water alone in 2001. This increased safety would, of course, benefit all road users. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a new document on a sad record, particularly concerning the Lake Constance. It is noted in this report that there have never been as many accidents as in 2002 for 17 years. A total of 199 people were involved in accidents, eight were killed. The most common causes of accidents are lack of care, technical shortcomings and poor sea crew on sailing and motor boats and ease. Ladies and gentlemen! Safety is an essential aspect of public transport, and those who are alcoholised behind the steering wheel or behind a steering wheel act responsibly and buy that they are endangering themselves and, above all, others. The risk of accident is increasing rapidly with the height of the promill. Above all, many innocent people are affected. Security is of great importance and must have it. We therefore agree to this proposal. A final remark, Mr State Secretary: In the current drafts on the reform of the ÖBB, the safety aspect should also be a major and essential point. I think the present drafts point to nothing good, rather to a demolition and dissection of the Austrian Federal Railways, and this at the expense of safety. And we certainly reject this!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18970	Mr Wattaul is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18988	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The Lake Constance Shipping Act has therefore become necessary because the Lake Constance is an international water body; for Austrian waters, for Danube and inland lakes, this law has already been applicable since 1996. As mentioned above, the promille limit of 0.8 applies to private, of 0.1 for commercial shipping. This proposal also serves legal certainty, and I believe it is good - it has also been adopted unanimously in the Committee. To the cable car law. I really don't think so, Mrs. Lichtenberger, if an enemy image is created here again. You spoke – what did you call that? – by the so-called lifts. From my point of view – and I have also asked the countries – everyone is really happy with this. In essence, federal and country responsibilities are arranged here. It is also very important – we have heard from the Committee – that the labour inspectorate was actively involved in the development of this law. I think that is also very positive. Overall, it can be said that this is a balanced law. Perhaps another sentence on the subject of environment. I don't know, Mrs. Lichtenberger, have you forgotten that there is “Natura 2000”? It precisely regulates the fact that no new plants can be built anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You do not know ‘Natura 2000’, colleague!]] Now that you're creating an enemy, that's not all right. In the case of lift companies – mostly companies – it is not a person who is enriching, it is mostly a community that is involved in tourism associations and there for tourism, for our economy. And I really don't see the fact that you're putting these as capital-makers or "lift-kaisers". Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19025	The next speaker was Mrs Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19043	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! As we have already heard from previous speakers, the EU cable car directive requires transposition into national law – and for this reason the cable car law was also necessary. As a Tyrolean Member, I would now like to refer to the speech by my colleague, Mr Lichtenberger. Mrs. Lichtenberger, you criticise the fact that there is no protection of the environment and the protection of its neighbours. You, Mrs. Lichtenberger, were once the country councillor responsible for the environment in our federal state of Tyrol, but obviously you have forgotten what care is taken to allow installations in Tyrol to do so not only before the new cable car law, but also that there are a number of procedures to approve the construction of a cable car and lift system at all, such as nature protection negotiations, clearance permits, EIA and the like, and that in the entire dedication process. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes, right!]] Have you, Mrs Lichtenberger, forgotten all this? And what bothers me even more is that as a Tyrolean, you say that neighborhood law is being violated, although we all know that, when a lift is built, there are not only neighboring, but also regional mergers and agreements. No neighbor has complained when a lift is built! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Because he can't even do it!]] On the contrary: Everyone knows that it means economic success if you have a lift in the neighborhood. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The following, I think, must be kept quite clearly: In the remote valleys, as we have them in many federal states, including Tyrol, an economy is only possible with tourism. And for this to happen, ascent aid is necessary. I believe that you, Mrs Lichtenberger, do not do good to people if you practice this criticism, because people know that jobs on the ground mean an economy in the valley, and people also know that a continuation of agriculture in the valleys is only possible if there is a job on the ground – and this also prevents a greater dispensation from the valleys. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In addition, you are criticised by the opposition that the right of expropriation has been taken away: In the course of a lift project, there is no single procedure in which expropriation has been carried out. On the contrary: There is good agreement between land owners and cable car operators – and the environment is also much better cared for because there are compensation payments. Many slopes are alpine areas. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to make once a mountain hike – and then you will notice that the pastures are well managed and maintained. They paint scenarios from the opposition that deny any basis – and that bothers me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since it has also been said that public transport must be promoted in winter sports venues, I should like to point out the following: There is not only public transport, but also a hiking bus traffic, a ski bus traffic, usually at free tariffs for everyone. This is public, so everyone can drive, everyone can sit on a lift, everyone enter a ski bus or a hiking bus. That is, by financing the municipalities, the tourism associations and cable car operators we have better public transport in the rural regions – and not the opposite is the case! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Lichtenberger, I would simply ask you to bear in mind that the next time you are a Tyrolean, you will make such a statement that you will not meet the cable car operators with your criticism, but rather the people in the valleys and in the regions that are really trying to do so, taking into account the environment, because it is their future to work and manage with the resources of this country's agriculture. And I think that's good – and that'll be our future!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19127	The next speaker was Mr Hoscher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19174	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to lose a few words about the cable car law – and perhaps to the surprise of some of those present: I would have liked to agree to this law because I believe it is right and important to create a law for the cable car industry, and that after so long. That's a lot of meaning. It has worked before and may now work better. However, Mr Fleckl will continue to explain why, from safety aspects, we cannot yet agree with this, because we do not think that certain details are sufficiently taken into account. However, I would like to follow up on what my previous speaker, Mr Stadler, has said about the cable car industry. The applause of the ÖVP has shown to me that my request for the development of ski resorts, which is currently in the Economic Committee, will probably also receive your approval. We can then treat these together, perhaps in November, and agree to them, so that there is a really balanced relationship between economy and ecology, especially with regard to the Alpine Convention, it is so that sometimes it is very sensible and gentle expansions of ski resorts that sometimes are very delayed, perhaps also unnecessarily delayed. You also have to recognize and say: If there is a really balanced treatment between economy and ecology, this is very, very important especially for winter tourism. And a winter tourism is not imaginable without the services of the cable car industry. The cable cars are not only those that destroy the countryside, by setting up some carriers, but in fact also those that run the ski slopes – and doing much more than just transporting. And that's why they deserve our special attention. Only to the order of magnitude, so everyone knows what we're talking about here: It is about 3,200 cable cars, around 23,000 acres of slopes that can be managed. There are 250 cable car companies with all their employees behind that, and there are further sales of almost € 1 billion that are made there. In addition, a little detail: More than 30 percent of all European winter sportsmen benefit Austrian cable cars. This is, as I believe, a very great success in this industry. However, we must not pretend that there were no problems in this area, as if the cable car companies were all high-quality, would work economically excellently. - It's not like that! In 2003 alone, cable car companies will invest around €530 million, which is more than half of their turnover. And they do this not only singularly this year, but have already invested a lot in the past decade: in snow-making facilities, in comfort, in safety – and they do not have significant problems because we also have to see that the current costs in the cable car industry are rising enormously. On the one hand, the high personnel costs are because modern facilities in this area are more personal intensive and do not save personnel – thank God! – and for the second, it is night-time working hours for snow-making plants, for example, which raise costs. That is to say, there is a difference between enormous cost expenses in current operation and investment and, on the other hand, not really increaseable revenues. It is invested in comfort, but this does not necessarily deliver more guests, but they are only transported more comfortably. That is to say, in recent years, we have been dealing with blatantly declining capital ratios in this area – and there the Federal Government and the regions concerned have been called upon to do something about it. Many companies in the cable car industry are now using their total annual earnings for interest-rate services, which, for example, in Switzerland has led to the fact that some investments in the cable car companies can no longer be carried out there in the safety, comfort, modernisation investment et cetera, although the Swiss – unlike Austria – support their cable car companies massively through federal funding. In the end, however, they have not completely solved the problems. On the proposals that sometimes come with regard to cable car industry: Well, they should stop going to the stock exchange, as American cable car companies have done!, it's to say: In the case of the structure of the domestic companies, this path is not feasible. That is to say, it remains a way of going, of course, which one must go, of increasing cooperation and mergers between these companies. Experts estimate that 30 percent cost savings could occur. However, both the Federal Government have been called upon to do something – including Mr Kukacka State Secretary – in order to find dialogue in this area, as well as the regions that should become aware of the importance of the cable car companies, the lift companies for the region. Whole regions would, in order to express this a little dramatically, die out, at least in terms of winter tourism, if this industry had not been given. Therefore, we need to pay greater attention to getting to optimal operating sizes. This will require public support – but not only – in particular immaterial support to bring the regions together and explain how to engage in cooperation, how to work better. For example, the stopover of the railway in Weißsee in Salzburg has shown the dramatic effects: As early as the first year, 25 percent of the budget had been lost. [[Call the ÖVP:Ready time!]] – This is a voluntary time limit. If the economy is not at your heart, Mr Maier, I cannot do anything for it, that is significant for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The reduction of 25 percent in white seas, as mentioned above, while the surrounding regions were able to see an increase in the number of beggars. That is, we need to achieve optimum operating sizes in this area. This also requires the coordination function of the Secretary of State or the Minister, who unfortunately is not present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19229	The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19247	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Finally, the Federal Law on Shipping has been amended so that the Lake Constance also receives a legal regulation concerning limit values for alcohol. With the introduction of limit values, which mainly concerns the driving of hydropower vehicles, but also commercial shipping under alcohol-induced 0.8 and 0.1 promills, a legislative gap has been closed. This creates more security. The competent shipping police may carry out alcohol checks by alcomat or by blood loss on the basis of this change in law. This law is expressly approved by us liberals. To the cable car law. – Mr Hoscher, I am already right: The economic factors particularly in the cable cars are an essential principle. It should be discussed in detail, but today the cable car law stands for debate. In connection with the cable car directive, Austria has just played a pioneering role, and with the amendment of the German law on cable cars, this directive will be implemented. The aim is to create uniform safety levels for all cable cars, including tow lifts, to simplify the administration of procedures and also to create authorisation-free operations, and – and this is important – to define precisely what is in the area of responsibility of manufacturers and cable cars operators. In this law, the 242 double-coupled chairways are also transferred to the competence of the countries. That was a requirement of the countries, and I believe that not only should these demands be met, but also that they should be implemented was an important part of this cable car law. Nature conservation – especially Mrs Lichtenberger should know this –: Nature conservation is country competence. These procedures are being carried out there, where the directives are drawn up. We have a lot of discussions in Tyrol, but the main factor for Tyrol and also for other federal states is: Value added in tourism is very, very important. I think that especially for this value added in the tourist sector is a cable car law that provides safety that offers a quality and far better than before, a good condition to further promote tourism. This law will bring more security, although the neighbouring rights are criticized by the opposition, which I do not understand. Mrs Lichtenberger would have to know that this is enshrined in the Railway Act. The cable car law just has to do with the railway law, so you have to take it out. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Has been separated!]] - No! That is to say, the basis of the right of railways has been changed, and that is why this legislation is, of course, also given. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes, but it has been separated!]] Mrs Stadler has already mentioned that there has never been a expropriation procedure. I therefore do not understand the criticism that this law should now lead to a massive expropriation. – Not at all, there was no one before, because especially for the area of tourism, the communities work together, the land owners work together because there is money earned. Tirol needs tourism. If you know that Tyrol has more nights today than Greece, then... – This is an essential part! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What does this have to do with each other?]] In view of this fact, one cannot generalize and repeatedly try to crush the cable car iconists, the cable car owners. In addition, the municipalities are mostly co-financers, co-owners. But I'll give you the right to look into some of those who have a lot of room. But the mass of the cable car owners is not that, you have to take note of that. I do not believe that there is now this danger potential for nature conservation and expropriation. Not much will change in this regard. I am surprised that you do not agree to this cable car law, because it is far better than the previous one, whether it concerns fire protection or also the checks. We have now established reviews at five-year intervals – in addition to those that the cable cars themselves have to carry out. I remember that you criticised in committee that these reviews are making external experts. I have to say: I accept a trained expert, even if he is external. – Or have the Social Democrats criticized it? Somewhere the criticism has come. - I like it. One should make this on a clear basis, and if this basis is fulfilled – and with this cable car law it is fulfilled! – will be more secure. We have seen from the example of Kaprun how important this is. I think that this law is a good law, and we support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19310	The next speaker was Mr Böhm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19328	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. I too may comment on the subject of Lake Constance Shipping Act, pick up a bit and talk about water sports and the economic importance of the Lake Constance. Water sports are of great economic importance. In many areas of tourism, water sportsmen are an essential pillar of basic economic income, as consumer behaviour is significant compared to the number of these groups. In the whole of Austria, the local guest is advertised, and in the group of water sportsmen tourism finds a stable group. This claim can be clearly explained in the example of the Lake Constance: There are 30,000 berths registered at Lake Constance, a total of 55 000 registered boats. Thus, a number of around 70 000 people can be used as a basis for regular hunting at the Lake Constance, thus boosting the economy and the hunting industry. – As a large Austrian yachtboat builder has told me, the largest and most expensive and most beautiful yachts of union members are currently being ordered. About 290 companies operate in Austria exclusively in the areas of boat construction, service, boat trade and charter. The same number of companies operate sailing and motor boat schools. On average, the number of persons employed per holding is six. The same structure can be found in Switzerland and southern Germany. These enterprises are mostly located in areas where tourism is the main economic source of revenue. A strengthening of the tourist environment therefore has an immediate effect on these establishments. The exact economic influences are currently being examined by the University of Tübingen. The results will be presented in autumn 2004. The forthcoming amendment to the Shipping Act aims to clarify that the provision of the Lake Constance Shipping Regulation, which lays down limit values for the driving of water vehicles under alcohol control, can also be implemented. In this sense, the local scope and scope of the relevant passages of the Shipping Act are expressly extended to the Lake Constance. ==References== As mentioned earlier, January 2003 applies to the regulation of 0.8 per mille alcohol. However, there is a problem, Mrs Binder and Mrs Lichtenberger: If you're below 0.8 permill when you're on the ship for alcohol control, you're lucky again. Leave However, they're the ship, going to the mole and to the car, the police don't need to control it again. From the time you take the key in your hand and get into the car, you are subject to the StVO, and it applies the 0.5-promille limit. To the accidents. – Mrs Binder referred to the number 199 for 2002. It was an extraordinary year since extraordinary winds of fall on the Lake Constance took place on a special day and there were some accidents, including injuries. I became aware of the fact that three victims of death are to be complained. In general, adapting to the administrative burden of a correspondingly increased audit authorisation is understandable, but it is necessary to do very carefully in this causa in order to avoid causing serious damage to the tourism industry. And as always, A handbreadt under the keel wherever you are!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19384	The next speaker was Mrs Fleckl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19404	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I refer to the cable car law 2003 and to the amendment of the Railway Act 1957. In addition to individual aspects, there are too many uncertainties, so that we must reject this bill. I live in a ski area myself, and I am therefore well aware of the situation for the lift operators in our area: The requirements for lift operators are increasing in order to be more competitive. In snow-making facilities and pistes, first investment is made to satisfy the guest, but in most cases, investments in safety are not visible, not measurable to the guest – and in most cases last. The scheduled penalty of up to € 10 000 if it fails to comply with the safety obligations will not really affect a large cable car operator, which has been noted by your colleague, Mr State Secretary, even in the course of the review. All of this will not change through this law. In addition, this act of law creates new uncertainties – and does not in any way prevent serious accidents, as they have happened in the past. Especially that tragic accident that occurred in Kaprun in 2001 should show us what a fire can do in a cable car. However, instead of requiring an annual review of fire protection measures, it remains only every five years when a review is carried out! Do you think that is the right way to avoid incidents like in Kaprun, Mr Kukacka?- Oh, my God! Is that what you learned from it?- Oh, my God! Significant, for example, would have been a mandatory introduction of emergency plans and emergency exercises; this would have facilitated a lot in the past. But even after that, you can look for a long time in this bill! I would like to ask you, Mr Kukacka, once again: Have you forgotten Kaprun or the wetfield? The main reason why we reject this bill is the fact that operational controls are still to be carried out mainly by external experts under the new law, as was the case in the past. There is a danger that lift operators will “arrange” with private experts – and we are very skeptical of this. The risk is simply too high, and that is why we can only reject this bill. Would it not have been more sensible to do more to the cable car authorities than to outsource important areas of safety in our country? After all, in 2002 Austria said that 550 million people were transported on 900 cable cars and around 2 300 tow lifts. And the trend, as we all know, is rising. Security in Austria has obviously been of little value to you since the year 2000 from ÖVP and FPÖ – except when it comes to the sintering purchase of interception hunters; there is suddenly a big deal of security. Ladies and gentlemen! You can still vote against this bill. – If you don’t, remember: The next winter will certainly come, and on the next ski holiday, please remember today's decision! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19465	From the government bank, Mr. State Secretary Mag. Kukacka. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19484	Mr President. High house! Only very briefly on the subject of shipping law. As you know, we are now – and this is a very positive step – creating the conditions for the alcohol-promille limit to be executed accordingly on the Lake Constance. I understand that you are calling for the 0.5-promille limit also in this area, but you know that, in the field of deep-sea shipping, we need to ensure that all three neighbouring countries come to a uniform decision on this issue. Switzerland is still known to have the 0.8-promille limit, and Switzerland has so far refused to agree to a corresponding reduction to 0.5-promille. So that's how the situation looks. As I said, At least we create the requirement that the 0.8-promille limit can now be checked effectively. For reductions, we are quite right to have – and we also believe that this should be done largely uniformly in Austria, but again: We depend on the consent of Switzerland, and such a one is not yet available. In connection with cable car industry, a number of previous speakers – Mr. Regler, Mr. Stadler, Mr. Hoscher – have already pointed out the importance of the cable car industry, and this is indeed particularly important in Austria. And for this reason too, this law is an important step forward. It contains, in accordance with the EU cable car directive, the most modern safety regulations, intensifies safety – contrary to what Mrs Fleckl has said here. At the same time, however, this law will also bring with it procedural simplifications, without any loss of security, something I would like to maintain quite clearly and clearly here. Nor is it true that the law cements privileges for so-called liftkaisers. That's wrong! According to the previous legal situation existing rights for cable car owners and cable cars are even circumcised, ladies and gentlemen! The obligations for cable car companies are clearly strengthened: Obligation to renew according to the state of the art, intensification of the verification obligations in relation to fire protection, inclusion of the towing lifts in the cable car review regulation et cetera. – Sound restrictions on the rights and increased obligations for cable car operators. So exactly what you demand is implemented by this law. By the way, the neighbouring rights – as they have been – remain fully respected, and of course there are also fundamental owners and a few parties. As far as the possibilities for decommissioning in connection with cable cars are concerned, I note that we have to do with rail law – and that this corresponds to the current legal situation. I would also like to point out that in practice such expropriations were not necessary at all, but the possibility of carrying out such expropriations is fully justified in view of the importance of the Austrian cable car industry and tourism. Cable cars are the cornerstone of the Austrian tourism industry, and we must therefore take this into account. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is also, ladies and gentlemen, that, of course, environmental protection has been fully taken into account: The examination of the nature and landscape interests takes place in the concession procedure, which is explicitly cited in the law. Where necessary, of course, an EIA procedure is carried out; legal nature, landscape and environmental permits are essential for the construction of a cable car. As you say from the opposition that the Alpine Convention is not explicitly stated in the law, I am clear that the matter of the country is, ladies and gentlemen! The consideration of the Alpine Protection Convention is a matter of the countries: within the framework of their laws on nature conservation and their environmental procedures. Of course, the Alpine Convention must and should be taken into account accordingly, and the countries are invited to adopt the relevant provisions in their nature conservation laws. Ladies and gentlemen! We are accused that we have not supposedly drawn lessons from Kaprun. – I really want to reject this accusation clearly and clearly! Regardless of this law, with its enhanced safety analyses, with its fire protection regulations, we have put in place comprehensive measures in the ministry since the disaster of Kaprun: We have had all the cable cars checked by expert commissions; we have had all heaters checked individually; we have had fire protection exercises carried out; we have set up additional measures for tunnel stand cable cars, requested extinguishing systems, prescribed video monitoring, installed fire detectors in the driving equipment. And: We have had our own comprehensive fire protection guidelines for cable cars developed by the respective national fire prevention offices. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we have created all the conditions so that such unfortunate disasters as in Kaprun can no longer happen in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19572	Mr Brader is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19590	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! As has already been said: In today's amendment to § 1, para. 4 Maritime law is a long-term measure, a measure that is also understandable, considering that there are 55 000 vehicles subject to registration on the Lake Constance. This figure also allows comparison with road transport. I think that the danger potential on the lake may be even higher, considering the risk of ignoring water sportsmen or swimmers under alcohol influence. But the passengers of an alcoholic handlebar are also at risk. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore of great importance that legal frameworks cover a targeted approach of executives. I mean the checks in case of suspicion of alcohol impairment and a corresponding sanctions in case of overrun. A possible intervention continues to be limited to difficult-weighting cases, or if danger is delayed, as provided for in the current law, would not be responsible and probably not in the inventor's mind. Limit values have been introduced. 0.8 Promills are a compromise that is now necessary. If there is agreement with neighbouring countries, then it is also possible to adapt to road traffic values. I would therefore like to ask for advice and decision-making and to give this proposal my assent.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19627	The next speaker was Mr Zweytick. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19645	Mr President. Estimated State Secretary! High house! My predecessors to the Shipping Act have already reported very detailedly, so perhaps only a few comments. It is very important and very important that this agreement between Switzerland, Austria and, above all, the Federal Republic of Germany at last leads to alcohol controls at the Lake Constance. Nevertheless, I would not criticize this 0.8-promille limit, as previous speakers have done, because it is once a great progress that you control at all. I also believe that, especially because the Swiss road traffic still have the 0.8-promille limit, here is a comparison between asphalt and water justified. This 0.5-promille regulation of the StVO is based on the reduced reactive capacity, which, in turn, is quite different when driving a boat or a ship to water than in the car on road asphalt. [[Abg. Binder: That's what I'm looking at!]] That is why I believe that this compromise is understandable and bearable, because I do not see any additional need for action, even because, as you yourself said, Mrs Binder, these many accidents are primarily due to the technical faults of the boats this year, and not to alcoholized ones – I am saying in this case, not drivers, but alcoholic captains. Nor can we compare accidents 17 years ago with those in 1995 and today, as shipping has increased enormously. That's a fact. I think that this regulation will provide a great deal of security in the future, but above all there are control possibilities. It is a preventive measure that will take a lot of leisure capitals to heart – if not, you can at least control. This has not yet been done, this is a clear progress! I should also like to ask for your consent, Mrs Colleague. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19680	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I'd like to take a seat. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We first reach the vote on the draft federal law amending the Shipping Act, including the title and entry into 203 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law, which introduces a cable car law 2003 and amends the Railway Act 1957, including the title and entry into 204 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill for a sign on this point. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to the draft law in question, to give them the same sign. – This was also adopted by a majority of the third reading. 7. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (46 e.g._Other Organiser Protocol of 3. of 9 June 1999 on the amendment to the Convention on International Railways (COTIF) of 9 June 1999 May 1980 (Protocol 1999) and Declaration of the Republic of Austria (247 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19750	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As the first speaker, Mr Miedl spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19774	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We should review the 1980 Convention on International Railways (COTIF) and update the agreement ratified in 1983. What's this about? – It is essentially about the EU’s competition law in the future also to apply to rail law. These are a few issues, such as technical harmonisation, where binding technical standards are introduced; they are about uniform legislation in the field of technical approval, for example in the area of the use of railway equipment and cars. It is a question of equalizing the infrastructure, so to speak. Ladies and gentlemen! This agreement, which will re-ratify Austria, also points out the need for the reform of the ÖBB. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] – No, Mrs. Colleague! You said that for the last time. It's necessary! International standards are on us, that is, in addition to the fact that the liberalisation of rails is being liberalised, we also have an international pressure to introduce a general standard in railway law, and there must not be a sham! You know that very well, and that is also a reason why the ÖBB must bring its state, the state of its company, to the highest level. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not with God anyone who says things that are easy to take back, but I do not understand how the SPÖ can be against service agreements between the Federation and the ÖBB around the world. Who can be opposed if this government concretely intends to modernise corporate structures? What is around the world, please, bans on adapting ÖBBler's right of service and, of course, pension rights to comparable companies? This is the challenge of this time! It would be grossly negligent if we did not assume our political responsibility. What, then, is against a change in the corporate culture at ÖBB around the world? I'll tell you a very short story: About a week ago, I was standing at the station front square of Graz and made advertising in the positive sense for the ÖBB reform. Suddenly, a man unknown to me comes by the way and tries to point me to the train station of some 6,000 square meters. He wanted us away from there and – in good German – said: Put it down! To my question who the Lord is, he has answered me that he is the works council of the ÖBB in Graz! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That doesn't have to be what you're talking about!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Imagine: I was there – there was no stand, but we informed about our project to reform the ÖBB – and then the Works Council comes and says: Put it down! On my question of who he is, he has admitted that he is the works council. I asked him if he was the owner. He said it wasn't, but if I don't go, he'll get the police. He then left, the police didn't come, but for that, another man, including the ÖBB. He was a little more friendly, he was a property representative and he said: Please, I'm asking you to leave! – Which service company can in this way refer a representative of the Republic of the Way today? This is unthinkable, ladies and gentlemen. This behaviour alone speaks of a change in the structures within the ÖBB. Ladies and gentlemen! What do we want to achieve with the ÖBB? - If you think that's right, that's your right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] However, I personally believe, Mr Commissioner, that this could not possibly be the right way in which ÖBB representatives should act. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Try this once in a barracks!]] – Mr Commissioner, that can be impossible! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we have objectives and have also formulated them: We want to increase the market share in the transport of goods and in the passenger transport of ÖBB. We want to keep the high level of security. We want to evaluate customer satisfaction. We want to achieve a high standard of punctuality compared to international rail transport. We want to increase productivity in passenger and freight transport, and we need to further increase it. We want to make the stations more modern and cleaner. We want the reform of the service rights of ÖBB employees. All these are things that we are obliged to do and in view of which I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, whether the SPÖ as so-called partners of the ÖBB representatives should have been taking action for a long time, she said it with the ÖBB and the fate of the ÖBB really as serious as it always suggests and we should believe. Ladies and gentlemen! We're serious with the company ÖBB! We need to do something to ensure that the ÖBB meets international standards. We need the employees of the ÖBB. The government and Parliament are invited to act. We'll do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19847	The next speaker was Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19866	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to join with Mr Miedl in his speech. Of course, the fate of the Austrian Federal Railways is very serious and very much worth us. That is why I would like to appeal today to the Federal Minister, represented by the Secretary of State, that it should be clear that if the drafts, as they have now been drawn up by the Government, pass through the Council of Ministers, then the railways are not guilty of any resulting consequences, but of those who want to bring this draft to the Council of Ministers and forcefully push it through here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, offer cooperation from SPÖ. However, we do not offer any cooperation that ends with the Austrian Federal Railways being smashed. This cannot be the cooperation we mean. Mr Miedl, you have just told me that as a member of Parliament you were driven out of the station. There are also other broadcasts, for example from the management of the Bundesbahn; an APA announcement of 16. I can see in the following October 2003: “Corporate management welcomes ÖVP Action Day”. It also states: “We are pleased when the customers are spoiled by our owner.” – There have been a few chickens distributed. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Who is the owner of the Austrian Federal Railways? – The ÖVP, as the already intimidated management writes, or is that still the Austrians? There must be a clear distinction between a political action at railway stations and the ownership function! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, another APA issue – you only need to read broadcasts constantly and have a wonderful speech at once –: “For FCG-Chief Klein is service law intervention, madness” – but this is not a social democracy, which is at the FCG, the Christian Trade Union Party. [[Call the ÖVP: You didn't want to choose him anyway!]] – Perhaps he did hard on the union day, Mr. stupid, but here it is clear and clear: “Diensity intervention” My dear ladies and gentlemen! We do not say that we should not talk about the right to serve. We say we should talk about the right to serve. We say, however, that the talks should be held where they belong, namely between works councils, trade unions and management. Mr Kukacka, you would be well advised to start another attempt and ask them to negotiate a right of service once on site, within a period of 6 months or 12 months. If this negotiation were to come about what the owner is thinking, it would, I think, leave a lot of steam out of the whole matter, and Austria might not get into that difficult situation that you see slowly coming to the country. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have here documents from the Österreich Transport Club, which show that no positive echo of the proposals that have been submitted so far has been recorded throughout the review process. It also states that the planned ÖBB reform is aimed at improving the overall system of railways past, truck and passenger transport would continue to increase unabated! – After all, this is from people who understand something about transport policy. From a brochure of the ÖBB, that is, directly from the railway, by Director-General Vorm Walde: “Rail works” – Rail works in the form that, for the first time since the opening balance in 1994, a positive financial result of more than €200 000 has been achieved, that freight traffic has increased enormously, that passenger transport has increased enormously, and that 75 percent of people in Austria have very much agreed and satisfied with rail. – But these are the consumers, those who use the train. The Executive Board therefore seems to have a different opinion here than two members of the Federal Government, and this should be clarified once again. And these two members of the Federal Government, in turn, have different opinions, different opinions than some would suspect here. Ladies and gentlemen! I have also made a few comments on the EU directive. Of course, competition will take place on us, of course competition will also become much stronger in freight transport. But then, in the drafts that are now in place, one must not take away the entrepreneurial basis of the railway, hoping that the private freight forwarders and freighters will do so! And, of course, together – and I offer the cooperation again – we need to get the increase in freight traffic from the road and the rails in the next ten years. But this requires highly motivated employees. This also requires a legal basis that makes it possible. But, ladies and gentlemen, the development of the transport volume of road and rail looks like this [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] This is a leaf from the European Union. We politicians – and I don't take care of that – always talk about moving heavy traffic and freight traffic to the rails and straining the road. However, the fact is that, so far, road traffic, which is the gray part, is increasing, but the red part, which represents the traffic on the railway, is increasingly decreasing. – We need to discuss this, and we should break our heads about it, namely, that we really have a shift away from the road to the rail. Unfortunately, the current concept does not provide for anything in this regard. If I look at what has so far been known by this reform, then there is no strategic business concept in it – can't be either, because the whole is a legal framework. But the company itself, its directors have told me that this legal framework is designed in such a way that they hardly have any more design possibilities within the company. But there is no other company in the world that makes laws so that one can no longer act and think business within the company in the future! There are also this holding structure with initially three guiding companies, but then a fourth came in lightning like a fourth, namely a fourth stock company, where the infrastructure company was divided at one time into an infrastructure new building and an infrastructure operation. If you look more closely at this division, you can see that the one – namely, the new infrastructure company – enters the entire assets of the railway; on the other hand, the infrastructure operation, which is actually the operator of the whole, which the whole – the logistics system, the transport – cannot even set an opening balance, because there is no wealth in it at all. If you go into the depth and look closer, you see, it is already being raised very much personally. There seems to be the one or the other one that you would like to install as a board of directors, there is one or the other to which you can distribute the wealth, if you can work. It is said that power plants are to be sold that land is to be sold. There's everything in there. And as always, you need to look closer. But we will still have enough opportunity to hold this debate. I should therefore like to ask once again, Mr State Secretary – and Mr Bundesminister, who is not here – that we should really try together, for economic policy reasons, but also for labour market policy reasons, to resolve the Railway Project in such a way that Austria's economic location remains secure, that the company remains secure and that employees continue to have a decent job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19935	The next speaker was Mr Wattaul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19954	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The COTIF Convention is of course another positive step towards the liberalisation of the railways as a whole. It should be noted that this is mainly about the transport of dangerous goods and that this will improve safety for Austria. In the future, we will need uniform technical regulations, uniform legislation, uniform social legislation, so that the ÖBB can operate in the new liberalised market at all. The infrastructure rail is really to be designed in the future when it comes to rail liverization in the competition as it is already the case in the truck industry today. One cannot believe that in Austria one can make island solutions, that one has social legislation that does not apply across Europe, and that one makes its own technical regulations. Then you can't play in the international game – that must be clear to everyone! What's very important to me – I wrote this down – is: To tact party-politically on the back of the ÖBB is absolutely wrong in place! Please stop it! If the Austrian government and the board of directors of the ÖBB fail to meet the challenges of the next decades, there will be a risk that the ÖBB will be the same as the postal parcel service. You know where they are today! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where you brought them!]] A responsible politician like Mr. Gorbach, of course, has recognized this, and he will make every effort to ensure that the ÖBB is a modern service company, with motivated employees, satisfied customers, and economically structured so that every Austrian is proud of the ÖBB. Maybe one more word, because you spoke of the draft: I am not very pleased with Mr Vorm Walde. This gentleman is now two years of ÖBB's general director, he's been there when this draft came into being, and he's always complained that the legal framework of the ÖBB is not given that he can't restructure anything. [[Abg. Eder: That was Forstinger!]] [[Abg. Eder: That was Forstinger, so the Secretary of State can't do it for that!]] Now the draft he's been working on comes out, and then he says: Now we have to look at this, and then we will see it on; perhaps we will make our own proposal. I say this here as a taxpayer: I feel embroiled – in German – by this Mr Vorm Walde. [[Abg. Eder: They say “frottle ” to that!]] For me personally, this gentleman has long been retiring.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20043	As the next speaker, Mrs Lichtenberger spoke. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20062	Ladies and gentlemen! This international agreement to be signed today is long overdue. It's been around the ministry for a long time and, I think, has already put mold on some sides. I hope that this mold will now be removed and that one will come into the implementation phase, unless the provisions have been implemented for the most part, because, in reality, Austria is only to a very small extent the address of these COTIF provisions, since our rules already comply with the essentials. But one thing is obvious to me, of course: At the last plenary session, this COTIF agreement was put on the agenda for a deadline, namely from its own government group, in order to conduct a debate, with railway abuses on the ÖBB in respect of the ÖBB reform in this context. Mr Miedl! One thing, I think, must be clear to every expert and every expert in matter: This ÖBB reform, which you are planning, has nothing to do with the international harmonisation of rail regulations! This can implement any structure of the ÖBB, the separation of infrastructure and operation is not the relevant scale, ladies and gentlemen! This is, for example, a question of dangerous goods regulations. It is about something quite different, namely how and in what way dangerous goods can be transported on the railway. This is about security provisions for cross-border transport adjustments. This isn't about the ÖBB reform! [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a reform!]] Mr Miedl, I find this to be an old story in school. In biology, the little Marie is examined over the mosquitoes; however, she has only prepared for the elephant, then goes out and says: The mosquito is much smaller than the elephant, the elephant, on the other hand – and so on, and so on – is big, it is an animal that lives mainly in Africa and India, and so on. The same is true of me in your contribution to the debate. They do not refer to the international railway agreement, but they say: And because our beautiful ÖBB reform is necessary for this, we are now discussing a round about the ÖBB reform, which the railway customers – that is, what you are planning – need as much as a crook. This reform will only bring them route settings and the like. I wish me a modern ÖBB; I use it very often, I depend on it and I want it too. I want a decent ÖBB, which can also take over goods – this also applies to the new construction lines. But I don't need a holding with a lot of new board posts for which you have to save. For these many new boards and posters and posts, which are mainly intended to benefit ÖVP and FPÖ members, it is necessary to save on staff, and to do so you have to hire secondary trains and take out important services from the railways. This, ladies and gentlemen, is, unfortunately, the reform that the government parties mean in this context, because what has so far come to the public, will not lead a train client or a railway customer to hope that there will be a further improvement in the services on the railway. Ladies and gentlemen! Open your motives and do it. You don't feel like you really have the well-being of the train customers in mind! You are away from that with your proposals light years!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20095	I call Mr Kainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20114	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Today's statements by the Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor outlined the new priorities of the Austrian Federal Government. The arch here extends from health reform to research initiatives – clear signs and objectives of this federal government and this coalition. That, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, is the right way for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now we're talking about the COTIF International Railway Agreement, which was held on 9 October. It was concluded in May 1980 and ratified in 1983 by Austria, a state contract with direct applicability also in the national field. However, this recast of the Convention in the 1999 Protocol also covers and clarifys rail transport issues beyond this area. In particular, the state legal bases for railway vehicles in international use are regulated here. However, this agreement is also the basis for an increase in the efficiency of the Austrian Federal Railways particularly in international cooperation in the railway sector. Today, international cooperation is more important than ever. We are facing the enlargement of the European Union, Austria is entering the heart of Europe, and Lower Austria is becoming a core country from the border country. I therefore very much congratulate Mr Vice-Chancellor and, above all, Secretary of State Kukacka on the success of getting six trans-European projects approved in the European Union for our home country Austria. I also congratulate our home country Niederösterreich, first of all our head of state Dr. Pröll, on three of these projects being implemented in Lower Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, this agreement not only regulates and strengthens international cooperation in the railway sector, but it is also a step in the direction that the ÖBB will, so to speak, become “eurofit” and that we will have the ÖBB reform will be the second and important step in the future, because the liberalisation of the market will also be an important step in the larger Europe for the Austrian Federal Railways. I therefore expect a very factual discussion for the large ÖBB-Reform project. However, I also expect to have an objective discussion of the railway trade unionists, so that there are no threats to strike in the room here, which is at the expense of our commuters, who, above all from the southern Lower Austria, travel from day to day to the Federal Capital of Vienna, where the Bundesbahn represents a reasonable alternative for many. I believe that today's decision is going to start by putting the Austrian Federal Railways on a modern international track. With the decision of the Bundesbahnreform, this Bundesbahn also has the green light for the transformation into a modern company, for the benefit of its employees, but above all for the benefit of the citizens who want to use the Bundesbahn as a service provider, but also as a transport infrastructure facility.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20174	The next speaker was Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20192	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The Protocol on the amendment of the Convention on International Rail Transport, as has already been pointed out several times today, constitutes a further step towards the standardisation of the international rail system. The initial design of the railway systems still in existence today was rather military-tactical. This has ended in an almost unmistakable number of combinations of track widths, dimensions of vehicles and power supply systems. Today, it is important – as we all agree – that the rail transport system should be brought to a uniform technical standard so that international rail transport becomes possible without technical barriers. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to deal with the many tasks ahead of us, such as increasing passenger and freight transport services while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The ÖBB has a good starting position in competition with other railways. In all current comparisons, the ÖBB is one of the most cost-effective railways in Europe. The efficiency of the ÖBB has become possible not only through social peace and consistent infrastructure policy since the Second World War, but also through the strategic orientations of the ÖBB in the 1990s. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it would be the task of Mr Gorbach, Vice-Chancellor, to increase this favourable competitive position in the sense of the Austrian economy. In fact, it would be the task of Mr Gorbach to take advantage of these opportunities, as would a wise businessman. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you have often proved on the government bank that qualities such as “entrepreneurship-efficient” and “future-setting” do not apply to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: This is what a social democrat tells us now – we still need it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Instead of taking advantage of the favourable competitive position of the ÖBB, try the British disaster concept of demolition and privatisation. [[Abg. Wittauer: Is a fool!]] And as a challenge, Mr Kukacka, and your colleagues in the government are repeatedly putting social peace at risk. The current discussion on railway service law is being held by you, Mr. Transport State Secretary Kukacka, who – which has already been known – has been your first day as State Secretary, 28 years old. February 2003, a pension claim of € 13,134, fourteen times a year. [[Abg. Wittauer: If you sit in the glass house, do not throw stones...!]] This, Mr Kukacka, is far more per month than an average railway pensioner or ASVG-pensionist gets all year round! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck: What's the climate? What's got...?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The government's hetz campaign from ÖVP and FPÖ against the employees of ÖBB is unbearable and objectionable. They hate the railways and their social rights! These atrocities are being worked out against the railways of people sent by the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture, the Industrial Union and working within the framework of best and well-informed special employment in the ministries. Or they are university professors like a Mr. Mazal, who, on the basis of his right of duty, with 100 percent of his final relationship – and that is not a minor reference! – will retire. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] According to the post office, the Austrian tobacco and the Voest, the ÖBB is now also heavily ‘circulated’. For example, ÖBB's real estates are scrambled on so-called – and I emphasize: so-called – best bidders, who are often the best friends of you, of black and blue. Under the motto “Black Blue in general, and Gorbach in particular” on the topic of ÖBB-new, one can briefly summarize: Deprive, embarrass, wear and worse, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call to the ÖVP: There is nothing left to “worse”!]] If you listen to Mr Wattaul, a well-known truck and freighter lobbyist, then you know immediately and exactly what a danger the Austrian federal railways are in government hands in, because what are the benefits of new technical standards and international standardisation agreements if the existing structure is deliberately broken down with us! I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties: “Whoever takes a sword will perish by the sword!” – You will understand the significance of this statement at the end of the day, perhaps – I have this hope – yet!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20300	That was Matthew 26. The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20322	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Now I don't go into the law at all, because it's basically consensus matter. We all know we agree. For four years we've been waiting, now it's finally there. The conditions are given in the Federal Railways, the others have to follow. A good agreement, and we will all agree! Mr Broukal said recently: We're all sitting in the glass house, and you shouldn't throw stones there! – If I listen to Member Heinzl, I have to say that this is a disaster for me: He speaks of "Bonzenwirtschaft", "Parteibuchwirtschaft" and so on. [[Abg. Heinzl: That's it!]] - You did it in pure culture! But since we'd do the same thing here, it's ridiculous! If I look at the entire trade union division, which is still talking about companies, I have to say: Of companies you have no idea at all! There's no one in there who might be more successful like some others on this side. [[The speaker points to the right side of the meeting room.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] We know what we are doing, we know how to reform something, and we know how to deal with this privilege stage. [[Abg. Nürnberger: You don't believe that yourself!]] I have to say: It is really disappointing that a red parliamentarian from this government is making accusations in this regard. I don't know. Have you taken out the speeches that the liberals gave here five or six years ago – or have you written them off? The accusations you brought today were about what they did in pure culture themselves. The only concern you have at the ÖBB is fear of your positions, fear of your clientele, fear of your members in the union! [[Abg. Heinzl: It's about social environmental testing!]] Every now and then, I hear a positive signal from the Social Democratic side that I have to give honourable Members the right to discuss the right to serve and that we should talk about such things in peace. But then go out and do the same thing again: They do everything bad from the outset, they come from the beginning again this kind of battle statements we're used to on the street of you anyway. [[Abg. Heinzl: You can't tolerate the truth!]] All of this we and this government rejected. This government, Hubert Gorbach and State Secretary Kukacka as well as we in the National Council will do everything possible to bring the ÖBB on a good path to a future path so that their employees can also have their place in ten, 20, 30 years and earn their money in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20413	Mr Glaser is now on the floor with a four-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20431	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The world of railways in Austria is developing – thank God; or let us say better: hopefully! – continue constantly, and, of course, the international agreements governing the crossing of the railways must also be further developed. In any case, we here in Parliament today have to take note of these conventions so that the legislative provisions of these conventions can actually become effective. – I believe that the agreements as such have already been said enough. They are important, but even more important – and with this I come to the subject, which, as I believe, the Austrians certainly and also we most interested: the ÖBB reform. I believe that this will really be a central issue for the next few weeks and months. In view of Mr Broukal's interest in me, I should like to refer to his attack at the last meeting of the Transport Committee, to Mr Kukacka's Secretary of State: Members of the Broukal committee, as I believe, have really put very strange accusations and false allegations into the field and have finally had to prove that he has argued with false claims. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important to take the emotions out of here a little bit and to stick to the subject matter. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, of the SPÖ and also of the Greens, because I believe that we can only bring about such a reform, which ultimately does us all good! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, we are not going to, as you say time and again, to destroy the ÖBB. On the contrary! And I think we all want a better track. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Mr. Kukacka, too?]] As a Burgenlander, I would now like to say to all border areas: We also need more railways, because what we currently have on cross-border rail crossings or railway railways is very, very poor. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to explain by an example from Burgenland what I mean, and I would like to point out the various structures in this context. If it goes well, in the central and southern Burgenlands, we have just about 50 kilometres. These are in the district of Jennersdorf a route of 15 kilometres and the railway line Graz – Budapest, without any railway barriers et cetera. In the district of Güssing there has been no railway kilometer for 80 years; in the district of Oberwart there is a 20-kilometre strikeway and in the district of Oberpulendorf one of 20 kilometres. We all, of course, play a strong part in the deficits of the Bundesbahn. In the northern Burgenland, for example, we have the private Raab–Ödenburger–Ebenfurter-Eisenbahn. With this Raaber train one understands it excellent to cover the needs of the commuters from the Neusiedler district and partly also from Eisenstadt. [[Abg. Gaál: Seewinkel!]] This railway company, for example, also has an agreement with the port of Hamburg and deals with the private transport of container. This train takes from Wels to Ödenburg the “rolling country road” and helps the economy save many ecopoints. In one word: It is a railway with modern, flexible structures; one is well-informed in this company and has also understood how to get the support of the country. I believe that the difference lies right here – in the Burgenland we see the very classic example of this –: With new ideas, new structures and a new philosophy, a track can be managed profitably and reasonably. That is why we are doing this, and we must do this! I may ask you and invite us to try this way! Then, too, these international agreements, which we decide today, will have a meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20484	Next speaker is Member Bayr. Desirable 5 minutes speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20503	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The State is responsible for the infrastructure of a country, and the State has to ensure that the infrastructure is sufficient for Austria's economic location. This concerns the rail as well as the road, however, with the difference that the rail is much cheaper than the road. In addition, €4.4 billion of grants for the ÖBB will be co-financed, while for the road there are €14.6 billion. But let me take a closer look at these 4.4 billion for the ÖBB. – €2.4 billion is intended for infrastructure reinvestment, infrastructure maintenance and operation. This is not a gift from the state to the ÖBB, but the state fulfils a legal obligation. All those who cannot believe this I strongly recommend the reading of the § 2 Bundesbahngesetz. There are also 1.3 billion € in pension grants. It is always pretended as if there was an “ÖBB-speciality” that there are State pension subsidies. That is not the case either! It is a bit common for there to be State pension subsidies, and by the way, for example, the percentage of state subsidies for pension insurance for traders or farmers is much higher than that of the ÖBB. Finally, there is €0.7 billion in so-called public services. These are not subsidies for the ÖBB either, but this is simply the remuneration of benefits that the state wants and which it can also cost, such as special tariffs for students, pensioners and counterparts. The ÖBB also represents a real alternative to environmental protection. In freight transport, for example, with 13.21 grams of CO2 per tonne kilometer, the train is the most climate-friendly transport at all. The railway is also quite uncompetitive in passenger transport. One car emits ten times more CO2 per passenger kilometer than the train, and the nitrogen oxide emissions are four times for petrol cars and even five times higher for diesel cars than for the train. But instead of using these advantages of the railway, this federal government destroys the ÖBB: It fills these – and distributes the lucrative filets to government artists! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our Federal Railways are to be destroyed in a sustainable and wilful way – and thus this government is consciously damaging the environment and achieving the Kyoto target. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ellwall.]] They all know that we are miles away from our 13 percent CO2 equivalent in the transport sector! And with this policy, we will not come closer to this objective either. This government is consciously damaging a meaningful shift in traffic from road to rail. It harms the counterparts who depend on public transport, especially the women who have a car much less rare than men. This Federal Government is damaging the rural area, which will be much worse developed in the future, to the transport sector and also to the feasibility of public transport. It is colported that prices and tariffs could rise by up to 30 percent. This government also harms the safety of public transport, because if Infrastructure AG will really be dependent on Finance Ministers' grace in the future, then I can only hope that Minister Grasser will deal with passenger safety much more carefully than with the announcement of his share assets. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What really happened to this “rail reform”?– The ÖBB are being expensive, embroiled, worn and worsened! Originally, I was very pleased about the Letter of Intent, which was signed regarding the station in Vienna. I think this is an important step for the TEN node, an important step for the economic location and also for the comfort of passengers. But if I look at what is planned around the ÖBB now, I fear that we will have a train station Europe-Mitte around 2012 but no more powerful train that will still drive. We will no longer have a functioning rail infrastructure network, and we will not have rail passengers. And all this is because Vice Chancellor Gorbach, as Minister of Transport, is destroying the Austrian transport infrastructure! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For transport policy in this country, the course is clearly wrong!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20605	Mr Josef Broukalzu has spoken on an actual correction. I would remind him of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure: They begin with the facts to be corrected, which are to be compared with the right facts. We are talking about facts and not value judgments. 2 minutes speaking time. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20632	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Glaser said that I should have been shown at a meeting of the Transport Committee that I was operating with false claims. - That's not true! Rather, it is true that during the meeting of the Transport Committee, a report was submitted by the ÖVP Press Service, which has been associated with the authorship of this announcement by Mr Kukacka State Secretary. [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: That was not the ÖVP press service, that was the APA!]] However, I was able to convince myself during this meeting that this report was written without the knowledge of the Secretary of State and was associated with his name without his consent. I apologise to the Secretary of State for this and ask you to take note of that. In any case, it's not right that I would have operated with a false claim. Instead, the ÖVP press service wrote false authors on its broadcasts.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20667	Until the last sentence, everything was entirely in line with business rules. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20688	Mr President. High house! Mr Broukal, I do not want to interfere in this debate by Members, but: Unfortunately, what you said was not quite right! It has not been a broadcast of the ÖVP press service, but a broadcast of the APA that has attributed something wrong to me. The APA has given this correction – and not the ÖVP Press Office. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: After violent interventions!]] I would like to maintain this clearly and clearly in this regard. - But by the way, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to speak briefly on some of the points of the railway reform, because I have the impression that some of the Members of the Social Democrats are actually rejecting reality here, ladies and gentlemen. I could not see such a refusal of reality with Alfred Gusenbauer, for he said already in a “summer talk” in September of this year: I, Alfred Gusenbauer, am absolutely for a change in the railway, because I believe that there must be a better service in Austria for the railway customers and that we need, secondly, more efficiency in the train. Ladies and gentlemen! That is what this Austrian Federal Government also wants to realize and implement! In this way, we are also entering the footsteps of Social Democratic Transport Ministers. The ministers already wanted to reform Strings, Climate and One. But they did not succeed, and when there were approaches, they were only halfhearted. And the opponents were not at the opposition, nor at the time the coalition partner ÖVP, but at the railway union, which prevented a comprehensive reform of the railway, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: This is interesting!]] That is the truth, and this can also be proved by various documents and protocols. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What this government wants, you all know as well as I do: This is certainly not the demolition of the railway! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] We want to restructure and organise the railways because, on the one hand, it makes sense and is necessary to operate and to demand all the management principles and, on the other hand, because the European Union assumes in its railway directives that the railways will have to be competitive in the future and therefore have to be re-established overall. [[Abg. Gradwelt: The problem is that if you continue to do so, you will have nothing more to set up!]] This is a fact that we have to face, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Most of the European states in the European Union have long since implemented the reforms we are now in front of us. Most of the European countries already have a separation between freight and passenger transport on the one hand and infrastructure on the other. There are already quite a number of different companies that get these businesses! And in many other countries, there are holding companies – as we plan. In just a few countries, there is still the integrated railway company, as are the ÖBB. And in all these companies we have been thinking of changes for a long time, because they are necessary and meaningful, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you criticize that we are engaging in service law, I say: It is neither the People's Party nor the Government nor the Freedom Party that demands anything here. Rather, it is the Court of Auditors, which, in many reports, points to the shortcomings and shortcomings of the railways and has always called for the government to have consequences for them at last. This government, however, is the first one to try to actually produce consequences from it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Gaál: That's not true!]] The Court of Auditors has criticized the retirement age. Of course, this is also the case. The retirement age has been strongly criticized. In addition, the Court of Auditors has strongly criticised the current rate of pay for trains. He has massively criticized the current biennial system of the ÖBB. He has critically criticized the high level of disease, which is above average, double and three times as high as in private companies. And the Court of Auditors has criticized special holidays. All this, ladies and gentlemen, we want to reform. So we are only doing what the Court of Auditors tells us in many reports and demands from us in the interest of taxpayers and in the interest of economically sound railways. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We are therefore pleased to welcome the comments made by Alfred Gusenbauer, but would like to ask him to work also at the S & D parliamentary Group and at the SPÖ Railway Union to ensure that they actually agree with these changes, because they are meaningful and necessary. [[Abg. You have to talk to them!]] I ask you to stop playing as a guardian of an unsustainable status quo, but to try with us to bring about a meaningful reform. [[Abg. Gradwell: Do you want a meaningful reform? Then enter into negotiations!]] - We're ready to do that! [[Abg. Gradwelt: That is completely incorrect!]] We are ready to talk, and I would ask you here to convince those who want to maintain the current state of affairs absolutely and in all cases that this does not have a perspective for the future, but that in the interests of the mode of transport train, in the interests of the Austrian transport system, there is a need for comprehensive innovations. I'm trying to get you involved.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20881	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Mainoni. 3 minutes welcome. – honourable Member, à vous!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20899	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! This morning, our Deputy Chancellor, Mr Gorbach, pointed out that the ÖBB reform is necessary, and it is also undisputed by the remarks here that Mr Gusenbauer and you of the SPÖ say the same as the Greens. [[Abg. Eder: He is unbiased! That's us too!]] This ÖBB reform also requires courage, courage – and we need to be clear about it – because this reform is not popular everywhere. We from the government parties are going to open this reform project, but we are careful, but also quick to do so. Why are we going to do it quickly? [[Abg. Eder: Because they are trains!]] What is the starting position? – The starting point is that the ÖBB infrastructure sector has a debt of €10 billion at the end of 2003. The starting point is that the influence of the trade union can also be compared in the operational field with no other company. – This is also a reality. The starting point is that ÖBB is not competitive internationally with the present structure. Unfortunately, God is still a starting point and a starting point: that the trade union is very opposed to this reform and, of course, expects a loss of influence. [[Abg. We are against this reform, not a reform!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The allegations made this morning that the employees of the ÖBB and their relatives would not care about us are simply not right. They don't care about us at all, but – on the contrary! – very important, at least as important as other companies that are also undergoing reforms. But I am now giving the following consideration: In tomorrow’s “Kurier” an article on “Sanctus subject to reservation for the ÖBB reform” reports, among other things, that freight traffic is already disrupted and that first companies change to the road. – That should give the trade union to think, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Eder: The minister has to think about this now, not the union! Don't give the trade union responsibility! The gentlemen have the responsibility from above, not the staff!]] It reads as follows: “The industry needs reliable partners in transport. Since the beginning of the week, trucks have been rolling through the motorways.’ They used to be transported by train. In particular, chemistry has already shifted parts of its tonages to the street. [[Abg. Eder: Why?]] – Yes, I tell you why: “The orders are just-in-time business. Delays are not in there.” – This means that the market is very sensitive, and we really need to be careful that the good reputation and performance of the Austrian Federal Railways is not reduced by the fact that the trade union is spanning the bow here. [[Abg. Eder: Therefore, be careful to deal with it! Careful!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21019	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21037	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, I am pleased that we are today adopting the agreement on technical alignment within the European framework, because these technical harmonizations are crucial to the functioning of trans-European rail transport. It was indeed true that earlier, due to technical differences, which are becoming increasingly less and less so – today by one step less – the trains could not drive from one country to another. However, there are still other reasons and reasons why we all want to prevent, and make it more difficult for European rail transport, both for environmental and economic reasons. Some of these reasons are closely linked to the overdue reform of the ÖBB. I would like to give an example: There are still different rules in the different European countries as regards signal technology and training and the requirements for the training of drivers. From my point of view, it would be highly timely to take out the training of the drivers from the company of the Austrian Federal Railways, because an employee in the already mentioned but very pleasant service law very rarely changes elsewhere, and without the fact that we also have externally trained train drivers, we cannot get private railway companies, which we also need to have a strong ÖBBBB. This is a very serious problem, and I would like to encourage further attention to be paid to it. It is also very important not to close your eyes before certain things: I have in my activity of a very high representative of the Austrian Federal Railways on the occasion of the fact that in the Brenner Railway Company a time-consuming sung system installed, following joke heard. This high representative has literally said – as a joke – that: Well, we can't do that with us, because we don't need it black on white! We are now making a hub and two tracks in the Elisabethstraße: a trail for those who come later, so that they do not collide with those who go earlier. This is just a joke, but for some areas in the operation of the ÖBB, as I know from my own experience, it is quite exemplary to see, although there are real workaholics and excellent employees there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer]] Of course, any management of any company – and there is also a need to recognise Draxler’s efforts and the current management – would suggest that such abuses should be eliminated. However, it was not necessary to do so, because the trade union with political support – such a “we-trust-not-not” at SPÖ times – made useful reforms which The survival of the ÖBB in the European concert of the railways as one of the most fittests in the future has prevented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] In fact, I assume that all of us, including ministers, Mr Eder and Mr Parnigoni, who have a little more insight, will agree to this very difficult task when we are now dealing with it and you do not have to do it so much, because it is very difficult for you to do it internally. So I'm hoping for At least their silent consent to these reforms and to good, objective cooperation in order to make the ÖBB a suitable European railway company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21106	Mr Marizzi is the last person to speak in this debate. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21125	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lichtenberger pointed out that, of course, the COTIF regime has nothing to do with the rail reform. Of course we want internationalisation, of course we want a technical evaluation, and of course we want to make the Austrian railway Europe fit. Ladies and gentlemen! These reforms are, after all, about 48 000 people who should be involved, because these 48 000 people should actually be involved in this reform. I would like to add two examples. Mr. State Secretary Kukacka, you certainly know the judgment of the Ennstal, of this leader: For 14 hours with short breaks in the driving position, he causes a serious accident. – Family broken, existence broken. 14 hours! And then we have millions of overtime, and at one time we have around 6,000 railwayers too much, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Now I wonder... [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka: Because we only have too many of the drivers!]] Yes, yes, Mr State Secretary! I appreciate your arguments, but you are wrong in this case! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr State Secretary! You can't say at the beginning of a reform, 6,000 are too many, we're giving you into a personal holding – and bye! Mr State Secretary, the second example: Do you believe that it is right for such cards – Mr Miedl, perhaps you have not distributed them? – are distributed with the ÖVP- Imprint at the railway stations?- Oh, my God! [[The speaker holds a map on which a blue and white station sign in the style of the ÖBB with the label “Privilegienbahnhof” can be seen.]] There is to read what privileges these railwaymen claim to deserve, how much they actually have on illness, et cetera. – And exactly these 48 000 people do you want to win and get involved in this reform? [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] I know that the Christian trade unionists in the railway have refused to distribute these cards in Lower Austria. - It's all the worse for you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I don't want to quote the media right now. ‘Press’ means: Full steam into the crisis. Swift into uncertainty. ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’ means: The reform calls for another. ‘Kurier’ means: Shiftway station. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Make You have this reform with the people who are busy there – and not with the people! It's written to you in the main book!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21189	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty, whose Rule 35 paragraph. 3 and 4 are constitutional to be approved in 46 of the Supplements. Since these are all constitutional provisions, I put them in accordance with § 82 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure specify the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate that we agree to this State Treaty for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. 8. Point Report by the Immunities Committee on the request of the city magistrate Innsbruck (II-STR-02104/2003) for approval of the administrative persecution of the MP to the National Council of Klaus Wittauer(216 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21239	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There is no word message here. We shall therefore proceed immediately to the vote on the Committee's request to decide on the following: ==References====External links== September 2003 for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Klaus Wittauerwill be in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the procedural actions and the political activity of the Vice-President Wittauer and therefore does not agree to an official persecution of the MP to the National Council Klaus Wittauer. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. 9. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Christine Lapp, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Road Traffic Regulations (StVO 1960) (141/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21299	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Lap. She spoke for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21323	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I am delighted to be able to present this proposal to you today. This is a change in the road transport regulations, which aims to ensure greater safety, especially for disabled people in transport, and through which also some measures for mobility in the 21st century are taken. ==References== We have negotiated this request with the people and associations concerned and jointly submitted it. I would also like to express my special thanks to Mr Wolfgang Kremser of the Austrian Blind and Visual Disability Association and the many other active and committed people. For example, it is still the case that in the road traffic regulations we have a section that should identify deaf people so that they are better perceived in traffic. – There is also a legal change very important and necessary. Blind people and hard - to - see people have to wander through the streets a lot of trails. The signs that sometimes hang much too low force blind people to walk in slalom runs across the foothills of our cities. This request also includes a ban on the way-by-pass of public transport. This is also an essential point: When people leave buses, trams and other public transport, they should not be rammed by passing cars or trucks. An improved visibility of road signs is also an essential aspect, especially for blind and misguided people, as road signs must be fitted in such a way that they can be seen on the one hand, but on the other hand do not constitute an obstacle. Another important measure we propose is the improved visibility of traffic signals, so that integration in transport and in urban roads and roads can be ensured. The reduction of the risk of pedestrians by cyclists on pedestrian surfaces is very important and important. We have also put in place a point to help ensure greater safety for all people moving in traffic and on public roads. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21370	The next speaker is Mr Miedl, who is going to speak for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21388	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lapp referred to a project to discuss road transport regulations and to introduce transport safety measures in particular. Mrs Collaborative, I have looked very closely at this matter. The proposals have hands and feet. There are some things you should really talk about, quickly. That is what I am proposing as a transport speaker of my group is that we do not take out individual parts, but that we rethink and reform the road transport system next year as a whole legislative work. I'm telling you what we're thinking. – This is very serious, because the measures you propose are really things that we should take seriously. The road traffic regulation should actually include rules for all road users. In fact, the road traffic regulations of 1960 have developed and have become a piecework. This includes transport regulations for road users and regulatory regulations as well as criminal provisions. That, for which we are pleading, is a rewriting of the road traffic regulations as a whole: not a piecework, but rules of play for road users who are from a cast. This is essentially also a matter of road safety, especially disadvantaged road users. Therefore, I have already told your transport speaker, Mr Eder, that we are thinking about what we want to include in this new legislation, in this new road transport regulation. In our view, this should be a very short legislative act, adapted to the most necessary needs and to the transport safety needs, which is in short and contains the most essential content. It should also be easy to understand and formulated in a clear language. There are some things deleted, but also some new points inside. In this context, we refer to a few KFG regulations that are still in place in the KFG – for example, the transport of persons – which I believe belong to the road traffic regulations. I therefore offer, Mrs Collaborative, to think about brainstorming in a kind of a way and, after such a thoughtful process, to re-write the road traffic regulations together. My active contribution in terms of road safety and the contribution of the ÖVP is at least ensured. I am looking forward to working with you to increase transport safety in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21437	The next speaker is Mr Wattaul. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21456	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The main measures for disabled people and measures for foot-and-mouth disease are: It's more common. I am aware of the fact that the Ministry of Transport is thinking about this and is already working on a reforestation of the road traffic regulations. I also believe that there are a number of points in this proposal that we really need to include, in particular those matters concerning people with disabilities, but I believe that this should also be taken into consideration in the countries. However, I think we have an opinion here anyway, and we will talk about it in the Committee on Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21488	Mrs Lichtenberger is now speaking for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21506	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal contains very, very many concerns, especially with regard to road safety, which the Greens have been pushing for a long time, and we will, of course, support it. This support, as Mr Miedl and Mr Wattaul have also announced, will be urgently needed, I believe, because I know – and my information is certainly not the worst – that within Vienna there is the strongest resistance to some of these provisions. This is also about the obligation to use cycle paths and similar things, i.e. things that are not completely uncontroversial in Vienna itself. But I think this is a forward-looking thing, because the following must already be found: We currently have an extreme observance of the customs, as far as the relationship between drivers and pedestrians is concerned. In clear text: Automobiles are becoming more aggressive, protection paths are becoming less and less respected. Especially in this area, precautions must be taken, especially when older people are on the road, even though children are less and less prepared for the highly complex road transport regulations, precisely because of this complexity. I am very positive about your proposals, in particular with regard to the provisions for certain groups of disabled people, but also with regard to passing by at stops and similar things. I believe that we can have an objective discussion on this, and I would be very pleased if we could make a maximum of that and some additional provisions on safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21537	Mrs Haidlmayr is the last speaker to speak. She wants to talk for 4 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21555	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In any case, this application is a good approach to finding solutions that are particularly vulnerable to mobility, which once again make it possible to participate in road transport as a disabled person or as a sense disabled person. The situation now is quite dangerous. Apart from the protection routes where one is not seen at all when sitting in the wheelchair, because you are automatically smaller than a pedestrian, up to the fact that wheelchair drivers have to drive on the road when there is no sidewalking, which they are not supposed to do – they can only behave either unlawfully or need to stay at home – there are unlikely many points that need to be regulated. If already the road traffic regulations are to be changed, as Mr Miedl has announced, and if one wants to work in these areas, I would suggest that a working group should be set up in the Ministry of Transport, which really allows those concerned to sit at a table so that they can bring in those directives that they need. It must not be like the people who are not disabled say what is important to us and what is good. We can do that ourselves, and we want to do it ourselves. I would just like to give you one example to see how dangerous we are on the road at the moment. The signs next to the streets – no matter if the stops or parking panels or additional boards, et cetera – are so appropriate that visually impaired and blind people walk into these signs unblemished, because they are so low that you simply hit the sign directly with your head. This is, of course, also a major risk of injury, which no one has yet seen. Furthermore, the security of construction sites. This too is a problem that remains completely unresolved. Mostly only such a stretchable red-and-white band is wrapped around a construction site. But if someone goes with a blind stick, he comes with the blind stick automatically under this band, and if he takes the next step, he may be in the pit four meters. And that he's in the pit four meters is not only a probability, but we've already experienced it all. A friend of mine recently crashed four meters deep into a pit, because this construction site was only secured with a band that immediately surrendered – and he was gone! There are still countless things that need to be changed. It also needs to be built more and more acoustic traffic lights so that blind people know whether they have red or green, because now they have to rely automatically on their hearing. This is sometimes too little in this case, or hearing is simply not so pronounced to be able to really make sure that someone has green or red. I'm looking for you: Make a working group at the Ministry of Transport so that road traffic regulations are adapted in such a way that people with disabilities also have the opportunity to participate in public transport protected. Especially with regard to the situation on cycle paths, on walking climbing et cetera there is also great need for action. I can't tell you this anymore because my speaking time ends, but I think you'll learn a lot more and experience some miracles about what happens to us every day. Set up such a working group if you are actually planning to improve the situation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21609	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 141/A to the Committee on Transport. 10. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Terezija Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen concerning an anti-discrimination law (146/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21649	We're now on the 10th. Agenda item. Mrs Mag. Stoisits. The speaking time is about 4 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21673	Dobar vecer, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After a long period of preparation, the Green Group has tabled a request for an anti-discrimination law in Parliament, a request based on an initiative by the Austrian Federal Government in 1998, which has been the “Year of Human Rights”. This year, the Austrian Federal Government – still under the German climate – has provided the Austrian non-governmental organisations, so to speak, with funds to prepare a draft anti-discrimination law – that was the working title. Numerous hours, very, very many hours have spent volunteer workers of NGOs working in focus groups, really a lot of work has been invested to create, together with the Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights, a draft that was presented to the public by the non-governmental organizations active in anti-racism work in the work of human rights in Austria. - That was two and a half years ago. For two years, the opposition – i.e. the government party SPÖ, which then came into the opposition role, together with the Greens and the Greens, together with SPÖ – in the past legislative period, tried to install a committee of inquiry on anti-discrimination in Parliament – not only as to the enthusiasm over the outcome of the “Year of Human Rights” but also as a result of the fact that a good deal has gone ahead at EU level – as opposed to the official level in Austria. Two directives have been adopted by the European Union in the meantime – I am speaking two years ago, not today. A directive, i.e. the Directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment without any difference in racial or ethnic origin, dates back to 2000 and should have been in fact since 19. ==References====External links== ==References== July 2003! That's been a few months ago. To say it a little Austrian: In recent years, the Austrian Federal Government has not made any earwashing in order to comply with this mandate of the European Union to implement this Directive internally. It was only when it was five years old that a draft assessment was drawn up, and this draft directive also dealt with the second directive on anti-racism work – I am now using it as a supertitle – which is the directive, which was adopted on 2 July. In December 2003, that is to say, in a little more than a month, already to be implemented in Austria, the Directive establishing a general framework for the implementation of equal treatment in employment and occupation. This is about combating indirect and indirect discrimination based on religion, belief in the world, disability, age, sexual orientation in employment and occupation. What has the Austrian Federal Government – contrary to the plans that have been in place since 1998 and which have now, so to speak, resulted in the initiative proposal submitted by the Green Group – regarding anti-discrimination law in Austria? – She has sent the draft equal treatment law in review, to which you can only say: This is the unsuitable attempt to link the most diverse materials. You've heard what I've just heard before. I have listed; I save myself a repetition. This ranges from the promotion of women to the working world, from equality between homosexuals to anti-racism, discrimination against foreigners. Everything was put together in a law. The assessment period has now expired. 55 institutions have given a negative opinion. The range of institutions involved in the review, which have expressed themselves negatively, extends from the Court of Auditors to the main association of social security, from “ai” – I am not counting all human rights organisations now – to the women's minister himself, who is also extremely dissatisfied with the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you: Let us save ourselves a good part of the discussion on this assessment draft and let us put this draft into the anti-discrimination law, which is in agreement with civil society, but is also accorded with numerous institutions – it is not that it would only be NGOs – to implement it. Or let's say it differently: Let us start by discussing this draft anti-discrimination law, which we have introduced, so that, at last, the shortcomings resulting from the non-installation of an Enquete Commission can now be picked up in a bundled and concentrated discussion. Then Austria might even, in terms of anti-racism and anti-discrimination work, have the nose in front of it once, Europeanally. If that is not the case – which is also to be feared – then we are also European final light in this area, and I really have no desire to do so – as a human rights spokesperson of the Greens. Thank you. I know it's a little
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21734	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. 4 minutes speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21753	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Questions of human rights, anti-discrimination and equal treatment are not appropriate in order to say party-political capital, Mrs Stoisits. I would therefore like to use the first reading on the Greens' draft anti-discrimination law to clarify some of the things that have often not been properly communicated in the media. The European Union adopted two anti-discrimination directives in 2000. The framework directive on equal treatment is intended to establish a general framework for the achievement of equal treatment in the profession, which will be implemented by the beginning of December 2003. The Equal Treatment Directive on equal treatment for women and men in access to employment, vocational training, promotion and working conditions is to be transposed into national law by October 2005. Both are legislative bodies directly concerned with equal treatment issues. The third directive, the Anti-racism Directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment without any difference in ethnic origin and race, would have been valid until 19. This year it is intended to be transposed into national law. At the beginning of July, however, there was a meeting of the Human Rights Committee, to which Mrs Stoisits was the chairman, and there was a consensus on the postponement because a government template was already in operation and the anti-discrimination proposed by the EU. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member This has already been recommended to us by the European Commission, and it makes sense. If we are constantly discussing, especially here in the House, the question of restricting the flood of laws and making it easier to understand laws, so that we can make it easier to implement them, then we should take this to heart, especially as far as this matter of law is concerned. I am therefore convinced that it is better to adopt a new law on equal treatment, including all three EU directives, as well as a framework for equal treatment, for anti-discrimination in the labour and social fields, education and access to goods and services, as well as three different laws. The new equal treatment law, which was adopted after the review phase, was adopted by the Council on 11 November. In addition to the framework for equal treatment, the Council of Ministers will also introduce measures for the enforcement of compensation schemes. In this way, victims of discrimination have the opportunity to claim, by court, compensation for material and immaterial damage. In addition, the Equal Treatment Act provides for an appreciation of the competences of the equal treatment committees and of non-governmental organisations; it is intended to provide more opportunities for consultation and monitoring in the process. The proposal for a Green Anti-Discrimination Act contains points in many areas, which will also be included in the Equal Treatment Act. Nevertheless, I am still personally convinced that a new law on equal treatment can and will make the aspects of anti-discrimination, equal treatment more comprehensive and, above all, more clear. I am therefore confident that the Equal Treatment Act can enter into force at the beginning of next year after the decision in the Council of Ministers and after parliamentary treatment and decision-making.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21807	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. Desirable time: 3 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21825	Mr President. High house! Although the Austrian federal constitution knows some constitutional principles against anti-discrimination, they are only poorly trained, which is why in 1998 – as my previous speaker has already said – not only a request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry has been made, but also a number of NGOs have found themselves in order to jointly develop a draft anti-discrimination law. This initiative even received the “Bruno-Kreisky Human Rights Prize” for its performance in 2000; it was “helping hands”, it was the “SOS fellow man”, the initiative “self-determined life”, the initiative “minorities”, the Ludwig-Bolzmann Institute for Human Rights, amnesty international, the “Homosexual Initiative Vienna” and many others – in order to give victims of racist and anti-minority discrimination the opportunity to put themselves against disadvantages by means of legal means. Unfortunately, these efforts have not yet been crowned by success. We have now, as has been said, received a draft late by the Ministry, which will implement these EU directives, and it is clear to us that the process of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, on the one hand, is the same as To change the law on treatment, but to exclude individual groups, is rejected; we want to have a law of equality that provides the basis for a gender equality policy; that we demand the implementation of these three EU directives in a separate anti-discrimination law; and that we want a separate ombudsman who is trained by the public prosecutor or established in the public prosecutorry, is subordinated to Parliament and can act more effectively than today's equal treatment commission. With this draft, the government has actually written down only the directives and adapted them nationally to some legislative passages. Some important points are simply missing, such as the right of representation or the right of association for NGOs. Positive measures are also lacking: Preventive measures against discrimination, social dialogue, arrangements for dialogue with NGOs. There are no clear definitions for almost all relevant terms, which is essential for execution. As has been said, the ombudsman's office is missing, and there is a rather ridiculously low criminal framework for infringements, which is usually €360. That's just ridiculous. That is why we do not agree with this procedure. We demand our own anti-discrimination law.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21868	The last speaker to speak was Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Desirable time: 3 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21886	Mr President. High house! In my opinion, the Green Group's request has been completely out of date, because the two EU anti-discrimination directives are being transposed into this new law on equal treatment. As you all know, the assessment period ended at the end of September. It is thought that the law will enter into force at the beginning of next year, and that some objections will certainly be incorporated into this equal treatment law. I think it is very beneficial that the State of discrimination should be summarized in a law, as there is more clarity and more legal clarity. What I particularly like is that existing contact points can be used, particularly in the equal treatment offices or in the equal treatment committees. It is precisely these equal treatment lawyers who do excellent work, which was also found by all political groups in the last equal treatment committee. The equal treatment prosecutions are distributed throughout Austria; no new institutions need to be set up. Especially Social Minister Haupt has carried out a real regionalization of the equal treatment prosecutions, which he has newly established in Graz, Klagenfurt and even now in Linz. The government parties have certainly not been sparse in terms of anti-discrimination guidelines. I simply think it is an unnecessary task for the Green Group to put forward its own proposal here.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21922	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 146/A to the Committee on Human Rights. 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues on a federal law amending the feed law (150/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21961	We're now on the 11th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Johann Maier. Thankfully, he spoke for a three-minute voluntary limit on speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e21988	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This proposal for a law is intended to create more safety for farmers and consumers in the field of feed, but also for the economy. Why this request? – This request is necessary from our point of view, because Art. 10 of the basic food regulation, which has already entered into force – I would like to emphasize – is equivalent to food and feed. Art. 10 – I really want to quote it here – provides an information to the public: Where a sufficient suspicion exists that a food or feed may present a risk to human or animal health, the authorities shall, without prejudice to the applicable national or Community provisions on access to documents, according to the nature, severity and extent of the risk, take appropriate steps to inform the public of the nature of the health risk. It shall, as far as possible, include the food or feed or the type of food or feed, the potential associated risk and the measures taken or taken to prevent, limit or eliminate the risk. - Quote. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian feed law does not comply with this European requirement. Only the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry is responsible for the implementation of the feed law. Why are we bringing this request back? – In this respect, there are some cases from the past that should be discussed here too. [[Abg. Scheibner: That is really the question!]] We had Lasalocid Falls in Salzburg. Samples were taken in March 2003 and Lasalocid was detected. Lasalocid is expressly prohibited as feed for use in laying hens. Well, what happened? – farms had to be blocked. I am now quoting from a request from the Federal Minister for Smoking: The loss of income of farmers depends on the duration of the block and thus on the number of eggs that are not marketable. You can expect a loss of 0.1 € per egg. In addition, waste disposal costs are included. Overall, for example, the loss was about €10,000 in a farm. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Here it was not possible to inform farmers in good time about this risk. These farmers – a total of eight farms – had a huge loss. We Socialists believe that, in the sense of agriculture, consumers, but also trade, this public warning requirement is to be prescribed in the feed law. I can therefore invite you to follow our request.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22031	Next word: Mr Preineder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22049	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Mr Maier and Mr Gradwelt have tabled an amendment to the feed law. The Preamble states that they require more safety for food – and that starts with feed. Here we agree with agriculture in the boat and with it. There are clearly certain differences of opinion on the form of implementation. They require better public information on the part of the Federal Ministry for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: This is mandatory!]] But please do not panic – I think that is a very sensitive area, and you should do so accordingly! [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: The European Regulation...!]] They shall require the preparation of a sampling plan for feed and the establishment of an information centre and a documentation body. They demand that this law be implemented by the Federal Ministry of Health and Women, partly by the Federal Ministry of Justice and Finance, which is in the request to read it. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: No!]] The question now is: Who really ought to be responsible? Who really has the competence? – We should clarify the question of competence, because feed and food are a cross-sectional matter and therefore a cross-competence. They also said that appropriate steps should be taken by the opposition parties. – This problem has already been solved by the former Federal Government, namely by the creation of the outsourced Agency for Health and Food Safety. The owners of this agency are the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Federal Ministry of Health and Women. We can underline the objectives set by this agency, including the principles. I believe that this agency has also been praised by the European Commission and its Commissioner. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the request was made yesterday. Austrian food is safe and of good quality. – And: For tomorrow's breakfast I wish you a good appetite!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22119	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Cheers at us. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22138	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier's request sounds on the one hand It is interesting, on the other hand, that it also poses a certain risk; my previous speaker has already said it. I think it can be assumed that the Austrian farmers produce good products, it can be assumed that they produce high-quality food, but – and I am now also with Mr Maier – it is certainly the case that an optimal level of safety, whether it is applied so placibly, is beneficial for the rural population. It is certainly also true that, in today's times, an understanding of feed is a very important task: We have experienced a lot of scandals in recent years, which in most cases – and I would like to stress this – I would like to say that, in all cases, traditional agriculture was not involved. There were mostly some large-scale farms that do not necessarily have much to do with agriculture. That is why we will take a very close look at the request to the Committee. We will consider very well what we will do with it, and in this way we will bring an end to what is likely to eliminate the fears of the farmers, but also the fears of the consumer protectionist and bring about a good solution for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22183	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber to us. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22212	Ladies and gentlemen! The present proposal by Mr Maier and Mr Gradwelt deals with a very essential and central matter of consumer protection and food safety. This is a good solution and a good approach, especially in times of uncertainty and a corresponding expectation for consumers, but also for farmers who rightly expect to be informed of the feed industry's quality problems and experience them in good time. The obligation to provide information here is generally a necessity, ladies and gentlemen. This is therefore a correct approach, apart from the fact that this information requirement is in any case provided for in the relevant EU Regulation. The implementation is therefore correct. As a organic farmer, you are also a organic farmer, I would also like to write to the main book: The request is anything but yesterday! [[Abg. Preineder: From yesterday!]] He's forward-looking, he's pointing in the right direction. Especially you as a organic farmer should take this seriously and deal with it exactly. That is, I think, very crucial. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to competence, it is very appropriate to involve the health sector here, because food safety is a central cross-sectional matter, which is essential especially for the health sector. The four-eye principle is particularly important here, Mr Preineder. The Agriculture Ministry will continue to be responsible for the implementation and implementation, the feed analysis and the feed testing. I think we can discuss this in detail in the Committee. I would also recommend that, in case of doubt, experts participate instead of qualifying the application as a pre-requisite, so to speak, because matter is too important as if you should simply wipe it off the table in a party-political way. Especially in the interests of farmers, Mr Preineder, Mr Scheuch, it would be time to discuss this very good proposal in detail and to do it positively in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22254	The last speaker was Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. He'll talk to us for 3 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22273	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. Once again, the government parties – not directly, but subversively – have come to represent the whole as an attack on the farmers. - But it's not like that! On the contrary: I am convinced that farmers have significant advantages through the information required here. Mr Scheuch mentioned it, the scandals are still in recent memory. These scandals were not about panic, but about a threat to the population. It is therefore more than necessary to take action here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen. I think we could at least agree on the point that today the chain of feed – food – consumers can no longer be questioned. It stands out for the animal meal at BSE and at Creutzfeld-Jakob. I therefore believe that this request is very likely to have its rights, not only covered by EU law, but also required and implemented in Austria. – As far as the theory is concerned. In practice, I only hope that this request, when it comes to the Committee, will be put on the agenda soon and will be discussed in the Committee – and that the great appearance of my colleague, Mr Schule, will not come back again: “I put the request to postpone”, and the request goes into the drawer, as we have unfortunately seen very often in your committee, Mr President. [[Abg. Grill: What did you see?]] I urge you to: Take this request seriously and treat it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22319	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I agree with the proposal 150/A to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Ladies and gentlemen! The agenda is exhausted. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Members too!]] However, two decisions remain. Applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22352	We shall now proceed to the debate on the requests made by Dr Pilz, colleagues and Dr Gusenbauer, colleagues, on the establishment of an investigation committee on the investigation of allegations against the Federal Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Where's Dr. Pilz?]] Karl-Heinz Grasser's relationship-wise information on the conduct of the Federal Minister of Finance in respect of the violation of the Incompatibilities Act, the implementation of various laws and other matters. As these applications have now been distributed to all Members, reading by the author does not need to be done. The applications have the following text: by Dr Gusenbauer, Dr. Cap, Dr. Kräuben and Collaborators, pursuant to § 33 GOG, on the establishment of an investigation committee [[Request]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Request]] The signed Members request that an investigation committee be set up in relation to V: 5, S: 4, F: 1 and G: 1. Subject-matter of the investigation: Information on the conduct of the Federal Minister for Finance regarding the infringement of the Incompatibilities Act and possibly related influences, the implementation of the Employment Act and the stencil regulation, the implementation of the ÖIAG Act and all other related laws since 4. 2. 2000, the award of advisory and advertising contracts since 4. 2. In 2000, the reference of honors as a lecturer to the professional ban and the corresponding tax consequences, the creation of a homepage (www.karlheinzgrasser.at) and tax consequences of financing this medium, together with the examination of this subject by the BMF under the direction of State Secretary Dr. Finz of the planned sale of the 5 federal housing companies and the purchase of interception hunters of the Eurofighter Typhoon brand, taking particular account of compliance with the selected procurement procedure and contractual relations between the Minister of Finance and Magna International. Investigation order: The investigative committee shall, by collecting oral and written information on the subject-matter of the investigation and by taking into account the files of the Federal Ministry of Finance, Other Federal Institutions and ÖIAG, in conjunction with the subject-matter of the investigation, examine all matters for legal and political responsibility. Reasons: The term of office of Minister of Finance Mag. Grasser is characterized by the waste of tax funds for external consultants, the unprofessional sale of federal assets and regular infringements of applicable law. If it was possible in the first legislative period of Schwarz-Blau that the financial minister's failure to cover the content with extremely expensive measures to promote personality, the Grasser system was degenerated at the latest with the detection of the tax painting around the homepage of the Finance Minister: Again and again, the same companies appear on the honorary lists of the Minister of Finance, Grasser's personal friends benefit from his ministry and existing laws are deliberately broken. Incompatibilities Act No incorrect or incorrect reports have been made by Minister of Finance Grasser in respect of his company's participations since the start of the office. In addition to international shares, the Minister of Finance also hid shares in the bankrupt Internet company Y-line AG. The amount of Grasser's share ownership to Y-line AG is still unknown. A lawyer who, according to media reports, has carried out the stock transaction for Grasser appeals, questions about an indirect activity for Grasser as a trustee, to the attorney's obligation to be silent. Especially interesting is the fact that the sister of this lawyer, as an assistant to the Board of Directors of the Y-line subsidiary FirstInEx, worked. Minister of Finance Grasser is a school friend of this board, Mag. Dieter Jandl, and baptized his son. BM Grasser is in strong business relationship with FirstInEx: ==References== In November 2000, the BMF awarded the Y-line subsidiary a 50 000 euro contract for the re-run of the Ministry's website. The Grasser association “for the promotion of the New Economy” transferred an amount of € 110 000 to the FirstInEx, which represents a contribution in the form of the security of the domain www.karlheinzgrasser.com, which has never been used. Therefore, the question remains, for which services the Grasser Association has transferred € 110 000 to the Y-line subsidiary FirstInEx. In the light of this business, it appears interesting that FPÖ as a debtor of Y-line AG has appeared in bankruptcy proceedings and the corresponding claim has been reduced from €1.5 million to around €400 000. It should not be excluded that this payment to FirstInEx was a fake transaction and therefore significantly affected creditor interests in the Y-line bankruptcy. The Vienna Procuratorate determines against former Y-line Board of Directors Mag. Böhm for the suspicion of serious fraud and forgery in the balance sheet. In the course of these court proceedings known names appear again: Lehman & Brothers Bankhaus AG, which had recommended the Y-line papers as an investment until shortly before the insolvency, and the tax consultancy firm Ernst & Young, to which manipulations are accused regarding the Y-line balance. Both companies received orders from Minister Grasser to advise the Federal Ministry of Finance. Employment Act and Contract stencil Regulation A special audit requested by SPÖ with regard to the appointment and appointment of Supervisory Boards and Boards of the ÖIAG, as well as the associated contract design, resulted in massive violations of laws in the donation of board salaries and Supervisory Board damages in companies of the state economy. The ÖIAG Board of Directors agreements deliberately violated the 1998 Employment Act and the Federal Government's Regulation on Contract stencils. An anti-privilege law, knowing the negative consequences for taxpayers, was deliberately disregarded by the Board of Directors, the Supervisory Board and the owner, represented by Minister of Finance Grasser. ==References== 9. In 2002, this criticism by the Court of Auditors of the draft contract for OEIAG Boards and Supervisory Boards is publicly known. However, no appropriate measures have been taken by the relevant Finance Ministers to produce the legal status since then. In mid-August 2003, “Lob” was requested by the Court of Auditors for these illegal contracts. The procedure described is clearly a breach of the existing laws to provide political artists with jobs, resulting in a damage of approximately €6.1 million. ÖIAG Act The sale of the federal shares in the ÖIAG is economically unfoundable in any form. The ÖIAG Act provides that, in the case of privatisations, the interests of the respective participating company, the ÖIAG and the interests of the federal government should be taken into account, in particular with regard to the operation of the debt of the ÖIAG (§ 7 ÖIAG Law 2000). By means of the budget accompanying legislation, § 7 para. 4 ÖIAG Act inserts a target catalogue for the privatisation projects, which reads as follows: Privatisations are intended to increase the value of companies as much as possible, thereby also creating and maintaining secure jobs in Austria in the long term, bringing as high revenues as possible to the owner, keeping the decision-making centres and the research and development capacities of the companies to be privatised as possible in Austria and taking into account the Austrian capital market. By means of a total privatisation by means of share sale via the stock exchange, no requirement of this law is met. Minister of Finance Grasser, who is entrusted with the implementation of the ÖIAG Act, has failed to comply with the provisions of the ÖIAG Act of his legal enforcement – a procedure that will lead to significant damage to the Republic of Austria. In the case of Voest-Alpine AG, the proceeds of the sale are even below the value of the own funds. This deliberately opposed the goal of optimizing the proceeds in the ÖIAG Act. The role of the Minister of Finance in colported secret agreements (project ‘Minerva’) which had the purpose of decommissioning the stock exchange mechanism is also extremely worrying and essential. Advisors and advertising orders The Federal Minister for Finance has been since 4. 2. In 2000 more than €27 million wasted for self-representation and advertising. This sum is the highest expenditure for external service providers – caused by a single department – since 1945. Not only for advertising, but above all for outsourcing of in-house tasks to external consultants was tax money was wasted exorbitantly. Many indications and individual orders clearly indicate that this intensive use of consultants serves a purpose in particular: the personal promotion of Minister of Finance Grasser. This culminated in a full-page deployment, with the Minister's photo in the Financial Times on 30 June. 11th@item: inlistbox 2001 and an image campaign of the Minister of Finance, a SME dialogue. The orders already documented several times in urgent inquiries clearly show that various natural and legal persons have been employed on similar issues. Also, the use of private contractors for legislative preparations – in addition to the enormous cost level – appears to be highly alarming. Despite the criticism of the cost-intensive and low-result awards to external consultants and advertising campaigns without information, Minister of Finance Grasser increasingly awarded corresponding orders in 2003. Honorary Minister of Finance Grasser agreed for lectures to pay fees either directly to his person or to a so-called “KHG Foundation”. A corresponding foundation was not existing at the time of payment of these fees and is not yet registered in the company's book. Similar cases were clearly recognised by the financial authorities as taxable income, but no taxes were paid by Minister of Finance Grasser in this respect. The existence of a corresponding foundation remains unclear, as well as whether Grasser has demanded this income in his capacity as Minister. It is also unknown where amounts taken from Grasser have been collected. Homepage In response to a urgent request from SPÖ, Finance Minister Grasser stated that his private home page was not financed by tax funds, but by sponsors, this statement started the affair around the association to promote the New Economy. Until now, it has not been possible to explain exactly which natural or legal persons have made donations to this association and where these funds – most likely more than €200 000 – have actually flown. An opinion of convenience, drawn up by a Commission led by State Secretary Finz, only came to a re-washing attempt on the donation of industrial associations, using outdated German literature. The number and identity of all donors as well as the resulting tax consequences have so far been silenced by the Minister of Finance. Bundeswonbaugesellschaft (Federal Housing Associations) For the preliminary consultation of the fully failed project of privatization of 5 federal housing companies, EUR 10.9 million for consulting costs to external consultants were spent by Finance Minister Grasser, including lawyers, university professors and Lehman & Brothers Bankhaus AG, to whom exactly € 10.3 million went to advisory sales. In particular, Lehman & Brothers’ performance is that they have not even included in their assessments the procedures that are obviously pending in determining the joint status of a company in its assessment. All 5 federal housing companies as “commercial builders” were auctioned by the commissioned company. It is now clear that at least one company has still maintained the status of a non-profit housing company under the WGG – an error which, on the one hand, fully calls into question the assessment of all companies, on the other hand, the entire sale process. In this respect, the Minister of Finance shall bear full responsibility for the costs of the failed sale procedure, which should serve only one purpose: the sale of federal assets regardless of an appropriate proceeds optimization. The Minister of Finance, Karlheinz Grasser, still refused to do so. 6. ==References====External links==* Official website In July 2002 for the “best of a not so good solution”. This was the decision, for the Eurofighter typhoon interceptor, the most expensive war equipment used so far only as a prototype. The most favoured company, the Magna Group, was the former employer of Finance Minister Karlheinz Grasser, who is also entitled to return to his former employer. Following the disclosure of gross defects of the product ‘Eurofighter’, which go so far that the use of this device is dubious at all and it seems impossible to hire interceptors in the meantime from 2005, it is also necessary to examine the question of the responsibility for this type decision in addition to questions relating to existing withdrawal possibilities or damages. From all the facts and problems mentioned above, the immediate establishment of a committee of inquiry is essential. In accordance with § 33 para. 2 The holding of a brief debate on this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22493	The debate on the two applications was made clear. For the purposes of § 57a of the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time in this debate is 5 minutes, with the two first speakers – from the Green Group and the Socialists – having a speaking time of 10 minutes each for the reasons of their respective request. Comments from members of the Federal Government or from the State Secretary on the floor should not last more than 10 minutes, but should not be expected in the light of the empty government bank. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Your speaking time is 10 minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22524	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It's funny. In the “Kurier” and the ORF’s teletext, it is worth reading what the government fractions will have done in half an hour, namely: they will have rejected the application for investigation. I fear – and that is why I will be quite brief – that I will not be able to convince you, Mrs Fekter, but I will give you a mirror very briefly. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni:... even holding a mirror!]] There are a number of things that need not be examined, as far as the Minister for Finance is concerned: He has problems counting together, in the commas – you know all this, colleague Scheibner – and in shares he just makes the wrong thing – that was really tragically funny today –, he can't fill out forms, he needs consultants, with plus-minus he has his worries, and much more. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And what about the Council of State?]] All this is clear, Mr Grillitsch, we do not need to examine that. [[Abg. Grillisch: What about Mr. Raus?]] But without an investigation much is not clear, and you should look at it more precisely interception hunters, sale of federal apartments, the homepage thing, the fees, ÖIAG and much more. [[“Raus”-Rufe at ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen! To the behaviour of the FPÖ it is worth a little bit more to say. You have confirmed your scheme: Split out loud, vote small in here and the press will be silent. - That's your method. [[Abg. Scheibner: Say something to your council! Do you want an investigation committee there?]] – I'll be right back to you, Mr Scheibner. Mr Scheuch, who said: In the final effect, the Minister of Finance will do well to settle this matter, otherwise Mr Finz may have to go and buy Persian again, so to speak, to wash the West of the Minister again. [[Abg. - Get out of here! Get out!]] Mr. Scheuch! As you have done not to vote in this House today, I am inexplicable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr Colleague Herbs! I'm just saying out!]] Strutz, a FPÖ politician from Carinthia, says: The FPÖ should not prevent an investigation committee from applying for the opposition. - That's what we do. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you should not prevent this! Jörg Haider – not exactly insignificant in your party – says: A committee of inquiry is, of course, a possibility, because our mandates want to be informed. Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, you have blamed down to the bones today when you have given anything of your own, namely your rule of law to control. The fact is that you prevent any control!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22661	Mr Scheibner! You can't be seen at all because three people stand in front of you. We agreed that we don't want to. To give the speaker the back in the way is not polite! The speaker is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22679	Lord, except for the bones of blamed Klubobmann Scheibner from the FPÖ: You've given some rule of law today, some control theses of yours. Forget that! Their party prevents any control. And the public knows that for a long time. [[Abg. Scheibner: What are these for these...? You didn't listen! As always! You can't listen!]] You, Mr Scheibner, and all other FPÖ delegates will therefore reject this Committee of Inquiry. Do you really want to leave control of Mr Finz, ladies and gentlemen? – The only positive thing when Finz controls Austria is a certain entertainment value for journalists. They have to laugh sounding when Finz controls something.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22717	The Greens' request to set up a committee of inquiry is justified by Mr Mag. Kogler. His speaking time is also 10 minutes. - Please. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] The speaker is speaking. I ask you to stop the general murmuring!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22750	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22780	Mrs Fekter, this is true of you too!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22801	The excitement increases. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Intervocations are allowed, Mr President!]] It could actually be much better for us if You're sorry you need to hear me talk here. [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] I'll tell you: “He who doesn’t want to hear must feel! ” it says in itself. That's right once. But even more true in this case: Those who don't feel need to hear – you. Why? – Because it – that’s quite serious – has long been felt by all those who can still place a democratically controlled conscience in this Republic: a conscience that should be brought with you through his mandate. Look You are not so tense, Mr Tancsits. You'll still have to read that. Then you won't be so good, but maybe that's why you're so tense. In any case: Whoever doesn't want to hear needs to feel. On the other hand, it is even more true now, because what you do not want to hear here is more than enough to use several committees of inquiry. But you just don't want to! With the backgrounds and the various “fornications” of the Wörthersee, we do not want to stop here. For the longer term, a majority would already be here in the National Council for this Committee of Inquiry. It is only necessary to sum up the public opinions of the freely elected Members. The fact that they cannot be so free at the last moment is due to the government agreement between ÖVP and FPÖ. I would like to thank Mr Dolinschek for finding such open words after his pre-weekly statement that not only the Minister of Finance is ready for withdrawal – then the Committee of Inquiry would have been justified for a long time – but he also said that this would actually be his opinion, but he could not be different now. These are the states in Austria. I understand that too, just: There is no reason for special excitement, nor is there any particular reason to be cheerful. It's just in the middle of it and it's tedious. You will have to answer again for your constant detachment on this matter. Just before that, have You're complaining that you've heard everything anyway. I'll tell you: All that has been presented in the list against the Minister of Finance so far would be sufficient for several committees of inquiry. If you want, I will remind you of a few things, and then bring you a document – it has only one and a half pages anyway – to be heard. You've challenged this. Then it's at least once in the record. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Just listen! The question of the advisory agreements which you agree with here is therefore not a minor matter, because, given the most expensive consultation costs that a federal government has ever done, you have to ask yourself the question of how this result comes about. Only this is interesting at the subject of the investigation, with which people and consultants are covered, so to speak, at the expense of taxpayers, which leads to the fact that you do not even find the right columns in the form where you have to register your shares. When you get caught up in fresh action, you will find the short way to “profile. ” However, it has not been possible for this column in the form. But there are even more serious things. There is, for example, the fact – not only the Minister of Finance alone – that a taxable citizen, who now calls himself “KHG”, is clearly calling himself de facto – what else is Fanz as Grasser’s guide?; he can explain three times that it has not been so - exempt from the tax. In Austria, the financial constitution obviously applies in such a way: All pay taxes, just Karl-Heinzi not! Perhaps that's already in the constitutional rank. That would also be interesting to clarify. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner:... the SPÖ agreed...!]] The paths there were all the bidders. Because you've been so excited again: The prelude to the community of this association was the first. The purpose of the association begins with Karl-Heinz Grasser, namely: Karl-Heinz Grasser has provided excellent services to the New Economy. – This is the sentence for the purpose of the association. In the meantime, we have generalized the matter so far that my colleague Peter Pilz has just signed up for the association „Friends Economy“. His employee is, as it were, the president of this association. The club address is his apartment. We will see how this Constitutional Law on the Liberation of the Minister of Finance applies from his manifest tax duty. We will review this in this way, because you obviously want it a little brighter now. But I come to another serious thing. I announced it to you: If we look into the Eurofighter considerations and what does not fit together, you should take note of what I am now presenting to you in chronological terms. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not much time!]] - That's enough. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Mr Scheibner! The ministry that concerns this is your former one. These are file notes from the Ministry of Defence. There's about to be on the...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22888	The general sound level is too high again! Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e22903	Thank you, Mr President. ==References== In July, the Federal Ministry of State Defense or the Federal Ministry of Finance will be informed that the procedure is under way. Seven days later, 10th. July, Hillingrathner from the Ministry of Finance requests all information from the BMLV. [[Abg. Scheibner: What year?]] - 2001, I told you. 13. July: Grasser flies to EADS. 20. July: At the time, Mr. Scheibner, the Federal Ministry of Finance, you should take into account that the offer deadline is too short. – They also gave up; this deadline has been extended. At that time, the Ministry of Finance had already put 18 aircraft into play not only but also offensively demanded. [[Abg. Scheibner: You also know what our answer was?- Oh, my God!]] Your answer was a welcome greeting, because if the flood had not been a year later, you would have invented another shame. You know very well that EADS was never able to deliver 24 interceptors at your given price. Therein lies the scandal! Stay back! There may be an opinion on this on other occasions. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't need to tell me when I hold back! That's probably my thing! Not so superinstructive!]] – Well, that’s in your interest before you now sign that you don’t want to know anything about anything at the time. It's gonna fall back on you, I just wanted to get you on the way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Just sound and smoke! Nothing else!]] ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website Then it was always pretended not to be particularly important. The invitation to tender did not give rise to this issue in the context of the subsequent application. The fact is that at the Ministry of Finance's intervention this payment variant was chosen, which led to it – you know that very well – that this – that was a year later! – the only decision that had nothing to do with the military technical assessment or assessment of counter-actions or with anything else. [[Abg. Scheibner: Two years later!]] It was not her place of business at the time that decided that the Eurofighter was the alleged best bidder, but the finance minister's place did so with this intervention – payment variant nine years. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what the Court of Auditors says!]] You know that very well. That is why you have also negotiated in those days that the obvious additional costs – this is the biggest damage that has ever been done to the Republic by means of a arms procurement – and I am only talking about the additional costs and not the basic costs of this procurement – of the Minister of Finance. That was your success. Don't worry, pay the taxpayer anyway. And what was the Minister of Finance's interest? Why did the most expensive device have to be bought? Why? – [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Because it's the best!]] This is not at all the best, we will talk about it for even longer! The thing is still not even able to meet the technical criteria! By the way, I would point out to you that the call for tender has already been made in your assessment, because the technical certificates that have been supposed to have been evaluated have not yet been available, Mr Molterer – whether you want to hear it or not. These aren't there! [[Abg. May. Molterer: I don't believe anything in the technology!]] It won't help you. I have only read notes that were made in the environment and in the cabinet of the Minister of Defense Scheibner, if you do not want to believe anything. But in total – that's what I put together – it's to say: The evidence and the suspicions are so oppressive that no one understands why you do not agree with this matter. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Disc]] You can only explain this more from the political interdependence of black and blue, because the majority you reached a year ago would be completely unattainable for both parties at the moment. For your group, 10 percent are already too much, and of 42 percent we do not need to talk. [[towards the freedom of movement]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's something too!]] [[towards ÖVP]] That still binds you together. That is why no committee of inquiry should be set up, although the colleagues of your group, Mr Scheibner, would be in favour. And this is the tragic thing that is being done against the will of the free mandates!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e23076	Mr Grossruck has now spoken to us. Free speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e23094	Mr President. High house! I actually wanted to ask the main applicants, Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Pilz, but they are not here. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] That is why I can only ask the question in general. You know, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition, how much urgent request you have made today in the matter of Karl-Heinz Grasser, the like many investigation committee Are you demanding Karl-Heinz Grasser today and the many mistrusts you have made today? –You probably won’t know, you’ll probably just be able to say there were very many. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there were very many. You have here an inflation of applications for the setting up of committee of inquiry and of urgent requests. They know what “inflation” means: “Depreciation. ” [[Abg. Mandak: Please agree!]] They therefore devalue the strictest instruments of parliamentary control by your permanent applications. And you know it doesn't lead to anything. That's what I wanted to tell you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But the grotesque is when you look at the request of the Greens. Just follow my words! They request a committee to investigate the allegations against Karl-Heinz Grasser. – So you want to investigate the accusations. You want to examine the accusations you make to Mr Karl-Heinz Grasser, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] That's already the grotesque and the most peculiar thing I've ever heard. Either you have really formulated the application as you believe you have formulated it, namely, it doesn't mean honestly anyway, or you really have a mistake happened. If you want to investigate the accusations, go to your own group and talk about it. Then you can examine the accusations you make. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] But why are these accusations coming? – There are two reasons we know that. One reason is the successful economic policy that this government under Wolfgang Schüssel makes with Karl-Heinz Grasser. We have heard the facts and figures this morning: Our inflation rate is below that of Germany, our unemployment rate is sensationally low, gross domestic product growth is twice as high, three times as high as in Germany, the budget deficit in Austria is the lowest. These are the figures and facts that you naturally do not want to hear about the opposition, because you like to dramatize and thus make the Minister of Finance the success of your activities. [[Abg. Oils: Because they don't vote!]] The second reason is Grasser's popularity. I'm going to take the evidence back here, too. Colleagues Walch has brought it before, but you have to bring it again and again: The SPÖ must pay €30 000 in compensation for corruption. In September 2002, the SPÖ spread on its website the claim that FPÖ government members would be rewarded for the fighter pilot decision in a mass broadcast to 2,000 recipients. As a result, it was sued and the SPÖ was legally and legally sentenced to a payment of €30 000, ladies and gentlemen. – These are the facts! That's how your allegations look: If they are indictable, if You do not make them under the title of immunity, then you will make damages, for everything you have done so far is drawn to the hair. The most unexpected confirmation comes from the Court of Auditors. I should like to quote from the short report what the Eurofighter has to say: The evaluation commission recommended a majority of 4 : 1, the order to be awarded to Eurofighter. As the best bidder, the Eurofighter fighter aircraft was properly determined. - Quote. Where do your accusations come from? What the hell happened? Then the Court of Auditors comes to its final conclusion: "In its surveys, the RH was unable to detect any indication of manipulation of the evaluation results and a related gift acceptance. In the context of the award recommendation up to the information to the Minister, an attempt to influence the product of SAAB could not be excluded. However, this did not affect the choice of type choice. The public prosecutor of Vienna, who dealt with this case, filed the proceedings in accordance with § 90 para. 1 StPO back.” – Quote. [[Abg. Brosz: A four-liner please!]] No legal proceedings have been confirmed either. Their accusations are inconsistency, so there is no committee of inquiry either. You ask this because you want to throw the Minister of Finance to make him bad, because he is the most popular finance minister we have ever had. And you don't like that. [[Abg. Oillinger: The Gstanzl please! The four-liner!]] Therefore, at the end of the day, the four-liner who precisely demonstrates your policy here, examines, asks, and says nothing but untruths. [[Abg. May. Posch: Please don't!]] Keep rubbing with dirt, there's going to be something hanging.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e23230	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Trunk to us. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e23249	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. In the near future to Mr Grossruck If you have nothing to hide and hide, you will not stop anyone from doing so, in your own interest, to agree to an investigation committee, so that at last light gets into the dark. [[Call the ÖVP: A good man!]] But the facts are different. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] First point. Not only with the colleague Grossruck, but also on the occasion of the urgent question was the speech of the speakers of the ÖVP without interruption, “human hatred” or “scandialization” by SPÖ and Greens to the Minister for Finance. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Exactly! Right!]] – You are entitled to nod, you know what it is about, Mr Klubobmann of the ÖVP. That's a classic culprit sacrifice reverse, and this game you're not going to play. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: There are a few of them, however!]] Second point. That's what Watzlawick thinks: Non-communication is also a form of communication.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e23319	Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to really listen to the speaker and not cause this huge noise level! You can't hear anything anymore! Please, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies Mag. Melitta Trunk Thank you for defending myself, Mr President, but nevertheless, I am kind to you. [[Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! You're silent and you're walling here! However, outside of media representatives, some of you and others are quite rescued. [[Abg. Neudeck: Some and others?]] Someone said that if you have nothing to hide, then you can easily put yourself in a committee of inquiry, and if you have something to hide, you should anyway have the consequences. This is unique and for the first time. – I fully share this view of the mentor of the current Minister of Finance Jörg Haider. [[Abg. Neudeck: Jörg Haider is Minister of Finance?]] Grasser may withdraw, Mr Klubobmann of the ÖVP, demands the Salzburger FPÖ-Obmann Karl Schnell. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] The same is true of the Kärntner Landespartierobmann of FPÖ, Martin Strutz. For retiring, Uwe Scheuch also – I simply call him the servant too many gentlemen – explains Uwe Scheuch to the Minister of Finance. Sigisbert Dolinsche bassist, saying: For me, the matter for the Minister of Finance is getting tighter, we will no longer be able to keep him, says Dolinschek on the radio, in the "Mitagsjournal". Even Bucher can force himself to say verbally: I'll talk to Grasser, and if I have to, I can also imagine agreeing to a committee of inquiry. – Mr Commissioner, your silence is long-sleeping! To complete, I would like to add another comment by Jörg Haider, who said: It must be in the interest of the coalition – this time he thought the Chancellor – not to leave these accusations in the room. And I also share this view with the exception. ==References====External links==* Official website October – by the way – he talks about himself: Sheuch is certainly the last one to fight for the stay of Karl-Heinz Grasser in the government. - Quote. Now I am telling you, Mr Scheuch, what we are asking you to do. [[Abg. Scheibner: You know yourself well in the FPÖ!]] We do not demand that you fight, we only demand a minimum measure, a little backbone and a little agreement between what you say before media representatives, and the way you act here, how you act and how you do not agree. That is the only thing we demand from you, and that is justified. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Please do not ask, do not ask!]] I wanted to bring these few quotations, and so much for the “human hatred” of the opposition to the Minister of Finance. I think that's so clear. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: My desire is limited!]] But the long silence of my colleague Scheucher from Carinthia also has a reason. She too will not agree to this investigation committee, because the Grasser friend Dr. Dieter Jandl junior is one of the bosses of a YLine subsidiary company. And this Dr. Dieter Jandl junior is the son of the Klagenfurt ÖVP City Councillor Dr. Dieter Jandl. And this ÖVP city councilman is also the ÖVP party observer of Mrs. Scheucher. – That is the second aspect and the second reason why you will not agree. Mrs Scheucher and colleagues from the FPÖ! You will surely still be laughing, because we will not be hindered from further research and getting to the daylight where the Grasser-Connection Jandl and Medwed were also in Carinthia, in Klagenfurt. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's over now!]] The last point that applies to all of you: Silence also means to apologize. This also applies to you, Mrs Scheucher and Mr Kompagnon Scheuch.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e23446	Last word sign: Mr Neudeck. He's limited to two minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e23464	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The two requests made by Members Gusenbauer, Cap, Herbs and Comrades as well as Pilz, Kogler, Friends include interesting questions that also interest us. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Then agree!]] But if you look at the answers to questions that have already been asked in the context of questions, urgent questions that lie on the table, then you will notice that there is nothing to investigate. There's just something to be valued, and we've been doing this for a long time. Besides, I have to tell you: The show by Kogler and most recently by Trunk has shown me that it's not about content that it's not about information, it's about pouring them. Scheuch, Scheucher, best of all, that's important to you for Carinthia. That's the Carinthian elections. Col. Trunk says: Where there is nothing to hide, one can agree to a committee of inquiry. Then we only have more work because we are investigating everywhere where nothing is hidden. Where everything is on the table, let's examine. You have to examine there – there is no chair, I can't sit down, colleague Gaál – where something is hidden. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál]] There you have to investigate! In this case, everything is on the table. That is why my group will not agree to these requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e23508	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall first proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Dr. Peter Pilz, colleagues, to set up an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your consent to show this by a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Alfred Gusenbauer's request for the setting up of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e23556	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 236/A to 245/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 913/J to 962/J has also been received. Request within the meaning of § 99(2) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2003-10-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00034_d7e23577	I also announce that, in the context of the Self-employed Request 240/A, the Court of Auditors has been carrying out a special act of conduct of the Court of Auditors' audit on the conduct of the Federal Ministry of the Interior and the conduct of all the departments and departments concerned with the process of tendering, awarding, settlement and establishment of the Federal Government Radio Network ADONIS (Austrian Digital Operating Network for Integrated Services) since 4. Feber 2000 until the announcement of the contract agreements by Mastertalk, taking into account in particular the award of the project management to the company Austroconsult (as well as its subcontractors) a request of 20 delegates within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, 23rd. October in 10 o'clock. I remind everyone of the Dürer exhibition tomorrow in the Albertina. The agenda for tomorrow is distributed. The session will be initiated by a Question Time. In order to crown this day, I would like to ask all the members of the committee to hold a main committee meeting at local VI. This meeting is closed.
