ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e1177	I'll open the 9th. Meeting of the National Council on the basis of a sufficiently supported request pursuant to § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, known as ‘the Special Session’. The official protocols of the 7th and 8ths. Meeting of 6. In March 2003, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies are reported as prevented by Pendl, Schieder and Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e1211	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e1317	Mr Van der Bellen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you to give urgent consideration to the self-employed proposal 70/A (E) by Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Van der Bellen, on an amendment to the National Council electoral system and to the establishment of the minimum constitutional standards for country elections. I have examined the urgent request: He is the subject of our responsibilities, and therefore he is admitted. The debate on the urgent request will take place at least three hours after its submission, i.e. at 2.31 p.m. I am now interrupting the sitting until 2.31 p.m. After re-negotiation of the negotiations, the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 70/A (E) will take place. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e1360	I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues in accordance with section 74a para. 1 in conjunction with 93 para. 1 GOG to the Federal Government on a change to the National Council electoral system and the establishment of constitutional minimum standards for rural elections (70/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e1394	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 70/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e1500	I give the floor to Mr Van der Bellen as an applicant for the urgent request. The speaking time is 20 minutes; Professor, you know that. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e1518	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor Schüssel said today that the forthcoming summit of EU Heads of Government will be massively overshadowed by the Iraq crisis. – Yes, it is, and of course not only the EU summit of Heads of Government will be overshadowed by the Iraq crisis, but also this meeting is overshadowed. We all here in the House are worried, but naturally not only us. All the people in Austria and Europe are under the same tension, are faced with the following questions: What will be? When will the war begin? When will he end? What consequences will it have for Austria, Europe and the rest of the world? [[Abg. May. Molterer: You have to answer for the special session!]] This shadow is not to be denied and not to be erased. I myself don't do myself very easily to deal with it, but it doesn't use anything: Internal policy is not silent in any European country, nor is it in Austria. The Lower Austrian country elections will not be postponed either because of an Iraq war, but will find them on 30. ==References== And in the context of the Lower Austrian country elections, we are forced to ask certain questions, political questions, legal questions and, in particular, democratic issues of, as we believe, high-level importance, otherwise we would not have asked you, ladies and gentlemen, for a special session in Parliament today, because the Greens, as you know, can only apply for a special session in a year. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] So it has to be something important in our eyes, and it is also about something important. It is about the abuse of power that we see, the abuse of power by ÖVP and FPÖ in Lower Austria, a abuse of power which is expressed in arbitrary and, as we believe, illegal decisions, decisions by authorities in which the ÖVP and the FPÖ have the majority. With this majority, such decisions are pushed through, decided to cost it as far as democracy policy standards are concerned. – These are tough words, and I must therefore also explain to the spectators of this session a little about what this is about. In the Lower Austrian country elections, List 1, List 2 and List 3 – as usual – are candidates for the ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ. List 4 candidate Greens. As far as everything has been, as is known from the past and as it is no different at the National Council level. However, as List 5, in some districts as List 6, a group which has granted the Lower Austrian electoral authorities a remarkable name by its majority from the People’s Party and the Free Party, namely the short name ‘GRUNÖ’. We, the Greens – who already have difficulty speaking differently – are confronted by a party, a group, a group, at least a candidate list called ‘GRUNÖ’. This then looks on the electoral paper so from List 4 GRÜNE, top candidate: [[the speaker shows the corresponding part of an election paper]] Dr. Madeleine Petrovic, and besides – or in some constituencies – the list ‘GRÜNÖ’, in the long version ‘Green Independent Austria, list of the EU opposition, Gabriele Wladyka’. [[Call to the Freeman: Who's the top candidate?]] [[Abg. Großruck: Like “Austria” and “Australia”, that’s always confused, you can’t do anything!]] We consider this decision by ÖVP and FPÖ to be arbitrary and illegal, namely the decision to give a name to a group that has absolutely nothing to do with the Greens, which is actually similar to that of the confusion. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, who now smile so politely or less politely! I can remind you of § 43 of the Lower Austrian Landtagswahlordnung. One would like to say that this is a clear section, but, as the events show, it is interpreted by ÖVP and FPÖ in a way that ridicules every description. This section clearly states that it is difficult to avoid different party designations. I would like to stress that it is difficult to avoid different party designations! I already think that a party designation, which differs only in the last letter through this legendary oeuvre from the term ‘GRUNE’, is quite difficult to distinguish. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Full text!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. What you have decided here is difficult to distinguish. Here is a risk of confusion for voters. But if you are not close, Mr President of the ÖVP, this is only due to one fact: the efforts of the Greens in recent weeks, and not least today, to draw attention to this risk of confusion and to protect the electorate from this error, if you wish. It certainly is not up to you from the ÖVP, because it was the intention to bring about this confusion at the expense of the Greens. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is nothing else, Mr Molterer of the ÖVP, as a plumper attempt at suffrage, as I would have thought impossible in Austria; I am quite open to you. [[Abg. Ellmauer: How high is the illiteracy rate in Austria?]] [[New condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's a plumper attempt of constituency that won't succeed – but not because you didn't try it; try it to this day. I'm excited about what you're going to say. There will be no success because, in recent weeks and even today, we are tirelessly trying to point out this messy attempt of error. [[Abg. May. Molterer: election campaign!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The list “GRÜNÖ”, with Ö at the end – O-Umlaut – has nothing to do with the GRUEN, list Madeleine Petrovic, anything but nothing – content, political, ideological, in no way! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mainoni]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: This is your top candidate from the last time!]] I could stop for a long time, but it is enough, I believe, to show you what this group has to say to the European Union. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What did the top candidate say at the last election?]] The top candidate for this group was once with the Greens, and she has preceded the exclusion, Mr Molterer, by going herself. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: 1999!]] That's the truth and nothing else! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The European Union considers that the top-level candidate of this group is a “Völker-Kerker”, “Kronen Zeitung” of 24. April last year, a “Dictatur”, “Die Presse” of 22. February of this year, a “capitalistic war project” – all these are literal quotations. And the EU enlargement calls the top candidate in this group a “Eastern campaign of the Fourth Reich”. - Very nice! This list gives ÖVP and FPÖ its support in several ways. The objective of this group – which follows from the already saying – is expressly the withdrawal of Austria from the European Union, as read in yesterday's newspaper "Die Presse". If you don't take it exactly, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you could say: This group is most likely to be compared with the FPÖ in its anti-EU and, above all, EU anti-enlargement attitude – I will come back to it. [[Abg. Scheibner: But really not, my colleague. The greens are with you, not with us!]] If at all, then this grouping competes with the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Scheibner: We only make a green environmental policy, but we do not take the greens!]] Such positions, ladies and gentlemen of the government, of Black and Blue, namely the EU enlargement as “the Fourth Reich’s East Campaign”, are supported by your side. This is supported by the functionaries of ÖVP and FPÖ! I hope I can save myself from explaining in detail that these are not the positions of the Greens. We do not think the EU – with all criticism – to be a dictatorship, and we do not think that the EU enlargement is a “Eastern campaign of the Fourth Reich”, with the implicit assumption that the European Union is nothing but a successor organisation of the Nazi dictatorship. – That’s really beyond! That's the last one! You, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, not only support this in terms of the name, but also it was not too stupid for you to stand up for this group in the run-up to the candidate of this group. I think I have to explain to the people outside this House that a candidate for a group will only be made if a group either collects statements of support in the individual constituencies – in Lower Austria a little more than 1,000 signatures are required to be able to register in all districts – or the signature of three Members who are already represented in the country day. What happened in the run-up to this candidate? – There is a lot of statements of support from ÖVP officials, especially the municipality of Purgstall, where the mayor, the vice-president and almost a dozen more ÖVP officials supported the candidate of this group. Explain to me, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, how to support a group that calls EU enlargement “the Fourth Reich’s Eastern Campaign”! Explain You are one of an average Austrian, just like I – I have believed so far at least – am one. People's Party and FPÖ – these are the government parties. Despite the fact that so many ÖVP officials have signed, do you want to make us believe that the ÖVP was not a concerted action, not an agreed action within the ÖVP – exclusively in Lower Austria, the supposedly best-organized country of the ÖVP? – Hard to believe! [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] Hard to believe! In the end, the candidate of this group has been made possible by three FPÖ delegates, which in so far as a certain irony is involved, when this group is most likely to compete with the liberals from the point of view of content. Those three who have signed must certainly have relied on the fact that “green” and “Green” are confused and that this is not at the expense of the Freedom Party. There may be nothing else to expect from the FPÖ, but officials of the alleged European Party, the ÖVP, support such lists? – Generate [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's so cheap!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mainoni]] Don't you think you're a little bit? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The People's Party is the absolute majority in Lower Austria. All surveys show that the ÖVP will receive the absolute majority anyway. What else do you want? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Erwin Pröll's good policy!]] “The good policy of Erwin Pröll!”, says the People’s Party. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That says the majority of the population!]] With such methods? I am far from criticizing the policy of the head of state Pröll in general, but this head of state Pröll wants nothing to do with the name ‘GRUNÖ’ despite ‘GRUNE’. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's so weak what you're saying!]] Mr Molterer from ÖVP! He wants nothing to do with it, it seems embarrassing to him. [[Abg. Großruck: Go to the prosecutor!]] However, it is embarrassing that none other than head of state Pröll is head of the electoral authority which has granted this group the name ‘GRÜNÖ’. This is what Landesbührer wants. Pröll understandably today but know nothing more. I do not find it particularly courageous to be, honestly, head of an electoral authority first, and then, when things go wrong and fly, to dissociate from them and to let others get the matter out of the way. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] I don't think that's particularly nice about those who now, as it were, pick up the shards. On the part of the ÖVP, we are told – at least in a sense – that: Don't be so sensitive, that's a good shame! Why are you making such a wind about this thing? – Allow me to make three comments. First: I think it's bad enough if two government parties – government parties! – support a group that calls EU enlargement “the fourth Reich’s eastern campaign”, but it also contradicts the government programme, I thought, and the Austrian interests. [[Abg. May. Longer: Repeat!]] It also contradicts common sense, I believe. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Your words also contradict the need for a special session!]] But whether it is because of it, it is the right right to run this group if it produces the necessary signatures, that is no question at all. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's so weak!]] Of course it's her right, but why with your support? Why with the support of the Austrian People's Party? You have to explain this to the people. Secondly, It is true that this dispute about the E or the Ö at the end of a certain comic is not lacking. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: That's the way it is!]] That's right! The relevant cartoons of the last ten days also speak a clear language. The cartoonists of all print media in Austria had highlife these days, it was really very amusing, in the “Kurier”, in the “Standard”, in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” and so on, I must say. By the way: not at our expense – before you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, laugh. I would find it a little more amusing if one could imagine for just a second that, for example, the ÖVP Lower Austria would recognize a new list – for example, “New Austrian People’s Party” – as a short name for the name “NÖVP”. Can you imagine that? The Electoral Authority with its leadership of ÖVP and FPÖ would then accept that “ÖVP” would be in the first place and “NÖVP” in second place on the poll? - Certainly not! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You can't imagine that for a second. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: No one separates from us!]] I look at your faces, that you agree with me on this. That's unthinkable! It is precisely this, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that shows the arbitrariness of this decision. Thirdly, In my opinion, the Austrian Constitutional Court, Mr Molterer von der ÖVP, does not rightly regard this games with short terms as cheap entertainment of Krähwinkler – let us say so – ÖVP functionals, but as a serious matter. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where are they from?]] I strongly recommend that you read the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court on this issue. It clearly and comprehensiblely assumes that free elections, which are to be recognised by the so-called true constituencies, do not require that there is no confusion between political parties. To this end, there are relevant findings from the Constitutional Court both on the long names and on the short names of the parties. Ladies and gentlemen! The Constitutional Court has already decided on such issues in less sensitive cases in favour of the withdrawal of elections. We are trying to challenge the election and a subsequent withdrawal, not at all. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You don't have a chance either! Very smart!]] But the People's Party and the FPÖ seem to do so, and I believe that this is an unworthy behaviour in a functioning democracy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I would be interested in what you see in the request made by the Greens today. We would ask to discuss the following: The Constitutional Court may have a kind of right to be given something similar to a provisional order in advance of an election in order not to have to act afterwards if it is too late when it comes to a challenge and a withdrawal of elections. In the civil sector, such a thing has long been common: If an entrepreneur comes up with the idea of offering a Coca-Cola-like drink and writes on the labels “Koca Kola” – with two K – then he has a million complaints on his neck within seconds. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you do an ordinary advertising!]] Only political parties should be allowed to fall into the very analogous case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] – Very funny, Mr Molterer! We also propose that the National Council election order be clarified or amended in several points. Firstly, there must be a regime that excludes the confusion of political parties. Secondly, we think it is unnecessary that three Members of Parliament should be able to sign and issue signatures for other political parties. This only leads to tactical abuse, as especially now the case of Lower Austria again shows. Thirdly, we recommend that the landing days be stopped by means of a federal constitution law to clarify their electoral arrangements in accordance with this regulation, so that at least in the future such operations can no longer occur, even if they are no longer preventable for this time. I believe that ladies and gentlemen, in particular those of the EIA, there is a need for a democratic policy action here, and I very much urge you to take our concerns seriously and accept this urgent request today. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e1983	On the issue of an opinion, Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselzu spoke. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2008	Mr President. High house! Dear Mr Deputies Professor Van der Bellen, you have made a urgent request today, which I believe is discussed in another place, namely in the Lower Austrian Landtag. That's where he belongs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: There you can't discuss this!]] I do not think that the Landtages are constantly discussing federal issues or that the National Council is discussing national issues. For this, we have a functioning federalism that each institution will act legislatively as well as, of course, controllingly for its subjects. As we all know, democracy works in Austria, not only at the federal level, but also at the national level, and therefore these issues are to be discussed there in both the control and the legislative areas. You have proposed three points in your urgent request. The first one is fulfilled, the second one can be discussed at any time, and the third one I think is extremely problematic. I'll give it a quick explanation. There is no compelling reason at all for a change in the National Council election order, because the National Council electoral system – you yourself quoted the National Council electoral order – is sufficient to meet your concerns. I understand your concern that you do not want your party to be confused with the long and short description of another political party. I believe that the National Council election system is perfectly in line with this idea and, as we know, it has always been the opportunity in the past to conduct elections in a free and fair manner in an open competition of all political groups. In addition, we have a very clear and independent choice for dispute issues. They are quite right, there can be problems in individual cases, and this has also been the case at the national Council level over and over again. I can only remember: I think in 1986 we had three green groups whose short names differed only by one letter: VGÖ, DGÖ and, and so on, the Constitutional Court found that. That is to say, any decision of the electoral authority can be challenged at any time, the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, which is of course known to you, is very differentiated and extensive. The decisions are also verifiable at any time. This means, in concrete terms, that: If such a decision affects the outcome of the election, the case law even has the opportunity to repeat elections. We therefore have a maximum of transparency, control and correction, and I think it is very good that these corrective and control possibilities are in the hands of independent justice. They also belong there – not in a special session of the National Council! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: In Lower Austria it is dark!]] Secondly, you demand that the Federal Government, the Federal Legislator, make rules for the countries regarding their electoral arrangements, in the form of a Constitutional Act. I think this is very problematic, Mr deputies, because the Constitution sets out the key points that apply to a democratic and permissible country-by-country electoral system, and they will also be reviewed at any time. On the other hand, I think it is very difficult to go further in detail because it could, of course, be interpreted as an intervention in the constitutional responsibilities of the countries and the countryside. From my point of view, it is also really unfair to want to give the impression here that the countries of Austria, which partly have a longer democratic tradition than the Federation, have a worse democratic standard than the federal legislator. This is simply not correct, and I would therefore ask you again to discuss the improvement of a country election system which can be conducted at any time, where it belongs, namely in the Lower Austrian Landtag, which is the competent legislator. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, most of the country's electoral systems in general, even in the formulations, are insignificantly different from the National Council electoral order, because a democratic and fair right to vote is guaranteed with the cornerstones laid down by the Constitution. You also have some additional needs for improvement – you can of course always discuss them. I believe that the Convention, which we are about to set up, is a meaningful forum for discussion where all these things can be spoken of independently of an occasion. I understand, of course, you are campaigners in Lower Austria, you want this, and now you also have the opportunity to articulate your topics in front of the television viewers, even if it would be better in the Lower Austrian Landtag, but okay. [[Abg. Oillinger: There's no way!]] However, I believe that some issues are disputable, and they belong to the Convention, as well as some of the proposals that we have presented by the Federal Government, such as improving the participation opportunities of voters, such as the issue of the right to write, which should enable particularly sick people or Austrians abroad to exercise their democratic right, as is the case in other EU countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I therefore believe: Point one of your wishes is fulfilled; Keywords: National Council election. We will discuss point two, which is improvement possibilities, in the Convention. Point three, namely the intervention of the federal government through constitutional law in the national competences, I reject it because this is an inadmissible and non-necessary premeditation. I believe that the Austrians trust the democratic institutions and the independent courts. I wish that at the election on 30. Many of the Lower Austrians are elected to the election, exercising their democratic right. I am sure that they will also consider exactly whom they give their voice, and I very much hope that the political centre will be strengthened, stability, of course also the European political course, which is so important especially for Lower Austria, because it will be particularly affected by EU enlargement and, as I hope, in the positive.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2100	We are now going into the debate. You know, 10 minutes speaking time for each speaker. Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2121	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr Bundeskanzler, you thought that the subject matter was not part of this House. I mean that for a number of reasons. It was not least well-known federal constitutional lawyers, such as Theo Öhlinger and Heinz Mayer, who meant that one had gone too far in a federal state, because an overpowered party had gone too far by exploiting their supremacy together with their coalition partner at the federal level – that is, blue and black hands in hand – and using it at the expense of a smaller party, which, of course, also took advantage of the electorate's burdens. And we reject that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! You meant that this was a federalism matter, it was you, it wasn't about this house. Molterer nods violently. - No, it's not like that! Because you know that state law, also state constitutional law, must not contradict federal constitutional law, and I also believe that the population has a right to be represented across the Austrian federal states in accordance with approximately the same rules of democracy and that their rights are respected in accordance with the same rules of play. – This is not the case at present. Mr Molterer, can you explain why, for example, 11 per cent of Members vote in Burgenland, more than 10 per cent in Lower Austria and 2 per cent at the federal level? Are the voters represented there less valuable in Burgenland or in Lower Austria? Why should a Member's mandate count less? Why should the use of classical rights that belong to a mandate – to make applications, to discuss them with the rulers – be possible only in parts of the federal territory and not in others? – That is not to be understood, that is to be rejected, and that is a legal problem. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They say: Bring this theme into a country day! – Ladies and gentlemen! This is not possible under the Rules of Procedure, according to the Rules of Procedure which you decide by a majority, so that others do not speak. That is why we blame you for the fact that you, who really have clear, overwhelming majority in many federal states, precisely in these federal states – it was in the past Lower Austria, it was in the past also the Styria; my colleague Brosz will do more to this, it was not only a federal country – exactly where you have felt the fullness of your power, also went to the level of tricks and deceptions. And I'm asking you: Does this have a party that is so much ahead in the surveys, do you really need to get down to this level? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You know, we were never any small or touched or vulnerable, but that did... – No, not at all, not at all! [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] We're still talking to you, and we're still fighting with you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But you know, if the official announcement of a mayor in the run-up to the National Council election calls for the election of the ÖVP and there are still false facts to be spread, then you have a completely right – some have called this in advance – to: That's a case for the prosecutor's office. That doesn't need our intervention. I suppose any of the prosecutors will hear us. Ladies and gentlemen, act! This is prohibited after the StGB, and the StGB must also apply to the powerful in this country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I think that this is a party that has such a supremacy and has also realized things in the federal territory that are in order – not for nothing we have conducted very serious coalition talks – really does not need. I ask you whether it really is about at least in sub-areas whole district organizations collecting signatures against the greens in a night and fog action for a group that has never called itself that, but which has been specifically renamed for the purpose of this election only in March of this year, so that it sounds a little more similar and thus perhaps a few people are wrong. I ask you if this is still right, what do you think if the same people who send out their signature troops in Amstetten, Scheibbs, Horn and Waidhofen say: The mayor's already doing this! – we have strong affidavits in this regard; we can do so quietly in the courts – if the same people who collect these signatures, ÖVP mandates, free mandates, then in the afternoon after they were collected these signatures, sit down in the electoral authority and say: [[Abg. Hornek: That's not true!]] Is that right or wrong? Well, it's right, it's right! – The SPÖ was opposed, of course Greens voted against, but the blue-black majority at the federal level and the blue-black majority in the country so decided. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Scheibner: How do you decide in the election commission? According to such criteria, do you decide in the electoral commission? But that's very interesting!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Did you say that you want to bring these people to justice?]] As I said, the prosecutor's office must do this on its own, Mr. Molterer, that doesn't need my intervention. It doesn't need my intervention! [[Abg. May. Molterer: You have said you will bring to justice the people who have collected signatures! Is that your concept of democracy?]] The threats of complaint have been voiced by your officials against greens when we discovered that! And I ask you again: Does a party in the surveys need to cover those who reveal a dizziness with complaints? – That’s really low, and I think it’s pretty cowardly. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, so that you can only know and so that you can see what ÖVP-Mandatare, ÖVP-Bürgermeister, liberal Landtagsdelegates have signed Veto to extend the EU Easter. [[the speaker shows a document]] – Bravo, I can only say! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Your top candidate!]] When we drew attention to this, Mr Mayor said: That was not me, there are several who are so called! I didn't sign that! – Then we got the proof that it was so, and then he said: I didn't know what I signed! – I can only say bravo if the most powerful party in the country has functional, entire district groups that sign something they do not know what it is. Bravo, I can only say. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Also to your address, Mr. Federal Chancellor, who says: What's this about me? I am the Federal Chancellor of this Republic, and this is somewhere in a federal country! – Mr Bundeskanzler! The exponent of this list has compared you and your statements in 1998 with words Hermann Görings. I don't want to quote this because it doesn't belong to this house, but I'll ask you the question for whom you or your officials sign it for. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If the same promoter of this list compares Europol officials with the Gestapo, I strongly appeal that these officials look better in the future at what they sign. And to voters I recommend not to select a list where the functionaries do not know what they are doing and what they are signing.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2314	Mr Dkfm. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Dr. It's stupid. The clock will be set to 8 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2333	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I must confess that I find it a bit disturbing when, today, the whole world is looking anxiously into Iraq, where millions of people demonstrate on the road for peace, where governments around the world are developing strategies, how to minimize the damage to their own country through this conflict, from possible terrorist attacks to the question of how to cope with the flow of refugees, when on such a day the Green Group, which can demand a special session once a year, holds a special session on the subject of whether a short description of a list on the voting list of a country election offers enough choice. [[Ah-Rufe at the Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Don't be afraid!]] [[Abg. May. Maier: What have you ever demonstrated for?]] [[Abg. Oils: That's what's supposed to be!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens in Lower Austria will take a look at your political priorities! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] ==References== March will show you how citizens in Lower Austria judge their behaviour. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's embarrassing what you're giving of yourself!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What's up here? . You say that there is a suffrage because on the electoral paper next to the long title – the one group has a line, the other has three lines – there are two short names, which differ by a letter, just as SPÖ and FPÖ differ by a letter, just as KPÖ and SPÖ differ by a letter. I have only one explanation for this, there are actually only two variants: Either, ladies and gentlemen, come out and explain this here! –, keep the Voters really for so stupid that he can't distinguish that – that would be an insult to the voters – or you say you have so little profile that the voters really can't distinguish it. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's see what's really here! It is true that the Greens' top candidate for the 1999 Landtagswahl in the district of Mödling shattered with the green party leadership and founded his own list. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That's it!]] Family care in the Green House. It follows from this that this House should change the federal constitution, because green groups are fighting one another, that is a consequence for this House, Mr Green Forest! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, since 1988, i.e. within 15 years, on the Federal level Green groupings have changed their list names a total of eight times. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Disputed bunch!]] I asked a staff member of our club to look at this. He then came to me and has – excuse me! – the more so comparison chosen that the Greens would have changed their names as quickly as some would have changed their underwear. Excuse me for the same comparison. Eight different names within 15 years, ladies and gentlemen! And you expect this House to change the federal constitution? You really expect that? This is an absurd abuse of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The voters can distinguish exactly between SPÖ, KPÖ and FPÖ. The electorate can very clearly distinguish between your group and the new group, a candidate from your green house, Mr Green Forest. But I admit, you don't have it easy as an opposition in Lower Austria. It is there the way it is always The opposition has it all the harder, the better the government is. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Yes!]] How difficult do you have to have it in Lower Austria, Mr Green Forest? How hard do you have to have it there? [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Her former top candidate – I read it by chance today in the “standard” – who is now running for “GRÜNÖ” said today, according to “standard”, that you are not supposed to call yourself greens, because with greens you would have nothing left on the hat. – Quote from today’s issue of the “Standard”, Mr. Grünewald! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: So you support this list!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] I see that you still have a problem in Lower Austria, namely that you no longer have nuclear competence there. Lower Austria is today the environmental country number one under Erwin Pröll and his team. We have most natural parks in Lower Austria. We are, please, the only federal country with two national parks. We were the first federal country to adopt its own water charter to protect the water. We have 200 climate alliance communities in Lower Austria, ladies and gentlemen. In Lower Austria, as your former Member, Monika Langthaler, recently confirmed in a press conference with Erwin Pröll, the largest share of organic farming. There are the true greens, our farmers, our farmers! They do something for the preservation of the cultural landscape. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They ensure that a viable environment will be maintained, Mr Green Forest. That's your real problem! But believe me, the voters can distinguish exactly who works day by day, week by week, month by month for the citizens and for the country, and who does not let himself look five years and ten days before the election here in the House makes a huge spectacle. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's it!]] That's what you want, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They have the next problem, not only that Lower Austria is today the environmental country number one, to be seen. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: That's not true!]] – Please, I know it from my own constituency: Ecocycle Harbach – a model project for Europe, Edelhof near Zwettl – is a demonstration project, the organic farming in the Horner Becken, for example in Maiersch. These are loud projects, where practice has long proved that they can do better than any green group in this house or in a country day. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also say one thing because the EU has been repeatedly addressed here, and precisely because Lower Austria is an incredibly exciting year ago: No country – Professor Felder has confirmed it – has prepared as intensively for EU enlargement as Lower Austria. Therefore, I dare to say that Mr Pröll's prediction that Lower Austria will be the first winner of EU enlargement will actually take place. In such a policy where the country is in good hands, where people have confidence in Erwin Pröll and his team, of course you are struggling. That is why we are rejecting this political spectacle today.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2545	Mr Wittmann has now been reported to speak. You've been wishing for 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2563	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I too am sorry that the Federal Chancellor – and I agree with you, honourable Member – has not used this special meeting in this situation to make a statement on Iraq. But this opportunity was rejected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: He can't do that! Who brought that in?]] It's a shame he didn't do that. It would have been an opportunity to inform the Austrian population about it. Too bad for the wrong chance! On the subject. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! I wonder if a country captain Pröll, who was presented here in the most colorful and dazzling colors by a previous speaker, really needs to misuse his party apparatus to collect signatures to put a truly questionable group in competition with a democratically founded party. Does this head of state really need such methods? Is this double game necessary? I wonder if there is really a need for someone who has his advantages for the country to act in this way. – I believe that this deep load does not meet its standard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But we've experienced this double game before. We have already experienced this double game when he half-heartedly criticized this blue-black government – half-hearted! Since his nephew's been in the government, there's nothing left to hear about it. There's blue-black all right. You haven't heard any criticism anymore. [[Abg. Scheibner: He has convinced himself that the government is good!]] Then there are the Lower Austrian Members who would not sit here if they had not been enforced in the Lower Austrian Party and, so to speak, the opinion of the head of the Lower Austrian Party here. In other words, they, the Lower Austrian Members, who are supposed to have nothing to do with blue-black or whose country captain wants to withdraw from blue-black, represent here in this House the increase in the mineral oil tax which is particularly affected by the commuters, and the self-holding when visiting a doctor. I'm referring to this double game: On the one hand, I am the superior, over something standing, but then I misuse my power apparatus and party apparatus to form a group that simply harms the greens. And then I'm the head of the Electoral Authority and I'll let you do that. – This double game is so forerunnerous! On the one hand, this black and blue rejection, and on the other hand, we agree with all these burdens. We identify with this load package, we are part of this load package as ÖVP Lower Austria. – This is a double game that the population will see through! And I don't think he needs that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is a pity that he does not give himself as a statesman and does not live as a statesman. It's a shame, because that's small-carriage. This is not worthy of a head of state of Lower Austria, and it is not worthy of a state-bearing party like the ÖVP. Just as you have tried to present this, all of this is not true in the country of Lower Austria. I just remember that the Lower Austrian Finance Officer Sobotka speculates the tax resources in the housing promotion on the stock market. He speculates them! [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Your consent!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Four times agreed!]] It may already be that a decision is taken in the national bodies to invest it in the capital market, but if Landesrat Sobotka is unable to see through the capital market, and in 2002 speculates 270 million € or 3.7 billion schilling on housing funds, then the inability is! This country needs control so that it does not become a self-service shop of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! 3.7 billion schilling speculated on the stock market means that 10,000 apartments could not be built in 2002, 10,000 homes because the Land Council for Finance has gone speculation! He just went to the stock market. No one bought it, but it was his own free choice. So this country needs control! On the appearances of the head of state perhaps another word, because this also shows this double mortality. In some groundings, the head of state acts in such a way that the SPÖ records must be cleared away from the workers of the street administration, and the posters that are hung around trees are hung with white cloths, because the head of state does not want to see SPÖ records. This is a concept of democracy that fits into this deep drawer I mentioned earlier. And I don't think that's what a country captain needs in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2666	Mrs Rosenkranz has now spoken. 10 minutes is your time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2685	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Professor Van der Bellen! You have indicated in your introduction that you yourself fear that you will be surprised at the topic of this special session. You have reason to believe that this is important to you. But you're right. You can fear that these fears are right, because you obviously believe that you need to compensate a little for the five years that have not been used very well by the Greens in Lower Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You have to use this special meeting as an election forum, because in just five years, not enough has happened. [[Call the SPÖ:Rosenstingl!]] I'm also surprised at how little you think about your own voters. As someone who has found his new home in Lower Austria, I already have to defend the Lower Austrians. They can read and write, and they can also recognize long names. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am convinced that the Lower Austrians are taking a picture of who they should choose. I'm also surprised at your democratically-political controversies. Mandates have supported the candidate of a list, and you base identification with the political content. That's totally unwarranted. On the contrary, these people who carry this list are close to you. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Really not!]] A statement from 1998 has just been quoted by Mrs Petrovic. I am clear here that the top candidate for this list in 1998 was your district top candidate in the district of Mödling. These persons are close to you, and there is no reason, by the way, to read out from the support of a list at the same time an identification with their contents. Similarly strange is your request that you wish for an enormous privilege for the parties already represented in the National Council. There's a lot out of the courage of your initial time. I would have expected a little more promotion of direct democracy in your case. I'm in Lower Austria now. Lower Austria is a good country, because of course I give the great posters right. They are diligent people, they are gifted people, they are actually very reticent people, who are far away from noisy prunk and protz. Not all, exceptions confirm the rule, even if in this case the head of state is the exception. But the Lower Austrians live a little bit on the principle of being more than seeming, not all of them, once again: Exceptions confirm the rule, even if it is the head of state this time. But I would have thought that you might be putting a little more emphasis on these issues, especially in the areas you are interested in, for example, criticising that there is still an insufficient financial basis for animal shelters. If that had been done, maybe the Elchbulle would have hurt that he should not call himself Erwin. I think it would have been better to put the animal home financing right. I mean, you're going by the subject here. You've had a lot of time in Lower Austria, you haven't used it, and you're trying to use it now. Lower Austria would be worth a special meeting, there are enough problems. Lower Austria is the country most affected by Easter enlargement. The question must be asked: Is Lower Austria well prepared? What about the labour market? Last year we had the highest unemployment rates in Lower Austria since 1945. For example, you can ask the ÖVP: Will you also comply with the seven-year transitional period, or will you, as you can hear, insist that it be shortened? – That would be something the head of state would have to focus on, for example. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or what about the business location? With keywords like “Top Ten” is last little made. They all know the EUROSTAT rankings in which Lower Austria is below the European average, not because people cannot. People are – once again – diligent and talented. Economic policy focuses exclusively on show and shows little substance. That's what you could say here, what you have to say here. Mr Wittmann, when you come to talk to Sobotka, I must say that I give you the right, it is a scandal as to how public funds are handled there. Only, may I tell you once again how courageous your colleagues are in Lower Austria. Let me give you an example. It was still my time as a clubwoman. You may know that in the Lower Austrian Landday it was in the last legislative period 28 : 28. That is, it was always important that everyone was there, and it was so that, if everyone else had united, one could reject blue, red and green, at least the request of the ÖVP, more than that, anyway. However, if someone missed from the ÖVP, the unique opportunity offered was that one could decide on an application against the ÖVP. Landday meeting: Red request on the subject of apprentices, has also taken our opinion in terms of content, and we have very often set up initiatives to do so. We have said that, in fact, this is to be supported by us. Then we counted down and said, look, one has already gone home with the blacks, sensational opportunity, one can make a request. Mr Wittmann. We have therefore proposed to your party to support them, and the Greens have also been involved. And then what happened? – The SPÖ has sent one of their people home so that the proper proportionality of the Lower Austrian states is restored. You sent a man home so that your own request could be voted down. Ladies and gentlemen! You don't need to make yourself powerful and important here! You must prove mumm and courage in Lower Austria! Here's the wrong place. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Once again on the priority of the Greens. You've feared you're wondering. You'll be surprised. There are enough other things worth a special meeting, generally political, but also on the subject of Lower Austria. [[Abg. Oils: The political references perhaps!]] With this special meeting, you have just made it clear that you are trying to compensate for your political failure in Lower Austria again.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2777	Mrs Glawischnig has now been reported to the House. Ladies and gentlemen, you wish to have 7 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2795	Federal Chancellor! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! This is not a question of Lower Austrian election campaign, should this impression perhaps have arisen in the last statements, but of constitutional minimum standards, of democratic rules of play, of how power is distributed, and of the question of arbitrariness when the majority of power as it has the ÖVP Lower Austria is placed at the hands of smaller parties. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] It's about democracy policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's about the rules of the game, how power is distributed. The fact that the ÖVP has a clear overhang of power in many federal states – and this has been a long time – and that this game, namely smaller groups, especially the Greens, has been detectable since 1986, has to be said once again. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We have only the power that the voters have given us!]] We've been silent long enough. Now is the time to show such an abuse! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] 1986, ÖVP voters confirm it [[the speaker keeps the copy of a newspaper page up to date]] Two green tricks! – If one can believe these media reports, then even money has been paid for the fact that these groups as “green lists” damage small green parties in the federal states. [[Abg. Oillinger: Buy Lists!]] This is something that should interest the Federal Constitutional Legislator. Since Mr Stumvoll said today that this was a “polite spectacle”, I have to say again what is actually a political spectacle, namely something completely different: Discussions as to whether five mandates are now split, whether they have a problem with the referee law, whether to negotiate the German government with the head of state of Carinthia, et cetera. In my opinion, this is a policy spectacle! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In view of the fact that the leading constitutional lawyers of this Republic say that the electoral authority's action is constitutionally extremely worrying, an election challenge would have a good prospect of success, there would be at least a need for discussion, I can no longer understand Mr. Stumpfully, for that is precisely the aim of our motion and today's debate. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: Only one!]] [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: Have you read the opinion?]] The opinion of the Federal Chancellor that it looks so rosy throughout Austria and that one should not interfere in it, I cannot understand either. Many here in the House may have missed the fact that the Carinthian electoral system is not comparable to any European country. My knowledge is only in Turkey that a party must have more than 10 percent of the votes in order to get a seat in the People's Office at all. It was promised by all sides that this would be changed. But there is still no mandate for the Constitutional Legislator to set minimum standards in this regard, so that every vote of each voters and of every elector who is given in the federal states counts equally much and is of equal value. If there's no need for a contract of action, I don't know when else. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The term “absurance abuse” has fallen here today. In view of the fact that the exact composition of a Convention is discussed very well and of who has many votes, who is allowed to send as many members, I think it would be appropriate to discuss such minimum standards. This would not only make sense in Lower Austria and in Carinthia, there are other electoral orders with inconsistencies. In order to stress the urgency of our demand that the Constitutional Legislator should deal with it, I would like to give further examples. In addition to the already mentioned Carinthia, a change in Vienna would be necessary. I am sorry to have to cut this, but such an disproportionate distribution, that with a vote of around 46 percent, a proportion of 52 percent and thus an absolute majority can be reached, is absolutely contentious. You have to change that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this sense, I would also like to make a motion for a resolution aimed at removing this uneven weighting of votes, namely that a vote in one state is less valuable than in another. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] For the declaration of the first-mentioned scheme: This means that distortion effects such as those in Vienna are no longer possible. The second scheme concerns the problem in Carinthia. I would ask you to consider seriously whether or not As a constitutional legislator, you can either conclude such questions or simply do so by saying that it is a political spectacle and not your task to finally fix minimum standards, democracy policy fair play rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2948	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, on the minimum federal constitutional standards for country elections, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Baumgartner-Gabitzer. If desired, the clock is set to 6 minutes. Madam Member, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2969	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let me first make a comment on the statements by Mr Wittmann, who today said from this speaker's point of view, he regrets that the Federal Chancellor did not find any words on the Iraq question. – Mr Wittmann, I am in fact in favour of the word ‘slant’ because it was a request of the opposition to discuss the Lower Austrian electoral system here today. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's why it's in your hand, you've determined the subject. To blame us now is obscene! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] To Mrs Glawischnig: You're making all the serious things here, saying that's not an election, you wouldn't have planned it that way. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This is democracy policy discussion!]] Haven't you heard what? Your previous speakers, Mr Wittmann, but also your colleague Mrs Petrovic, have today “delivered” them? – Those were lukewarm election speeches, Mrs. Colleague! Maybe you weren't in the hall right now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: And the stupid one? You forgot?]] I would like to deal with and comment briefly on democracy policy and its allegations. However, I must accuse you that you have just carried this Lower Austrian election campaign into the overall Austrian Parliament. That was your initiative! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The try!]] The choice of words in the urgent request, but also in Mr Van der Bellen's statement to that effect, was unusually violent for your circumstances, I would even say, just too polemic. [[Oh, by the greens.]] You have explicitly said that you have accused the authority of having acted “voluntaryly” and “unlawfully”. My dear colleagues from the Greens! You have to look at things carefully. You also need to look closely at the Lower Austrian and other electoral orders. [[Abg. Oils: You should change them!]] I would like to oppose this very strongly, because it is not correct! Legally speaking, it is not about “green” or “GRÜNÖ”, but about the consideration of the whole – and this will always be the case of the Constitutional Court in any judicial case. That's why I have to stop you: It is not about comparing “green” and “GRUNE” with each other, but everything on the list is used. As Mr Van der Bellen has already said, this refers to the short name “Green” for “The Greens” and the short name “GRÜNÖ” for “Green Independent Austria, list of EU opposition, Gabriela Vladyka”. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Bold printed!]] It's being used! You can't believe all the serious – and your voters think so simple – that they don't understand the difference between the short names "green" and "GRUNÖ", especially since they have the long name in front of them anyway. And only that will ultimately be applied to the Constitutional Court in its jurisdiction. That is also what is in the electoral order. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The ÖVP already knows what the Constitutional Court will say!]] That means: A confusion is not possible! [[Abg. Ollinger: Do you already know the judgment of the VfGH?]] The problem of democracy, which you claim to be, is therefore not real. And you know that too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let me say one more word about the minimum standards required by you. There are minimum standards. Article 95 B-VG provides that the conditions of the active and passive right to vote in the country election orders must not be narrowed than in the Federal Constitution for Elections to the National Council. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] This is a minimum standard in my eyes. However, they are trying to limit the design of the right of election of the countries that should remain in the countries, because this is in line with the federal principle, one of the principles of our federal constitution, to which we and, as I hope, you too are standing, say: It doesn't fit me in a few cases, so I want to anchor minimum standards. In my opinion, this procedure is – and you, Mr Van der Bellen, should actually see that as well – an event law in the classical sense. For this we are not available from the ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3124	Mr Cap spoke in favour of an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. You are aware of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3146	I really want to correct the statements made by Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer: Not the opposition has convened the special meeting today, but a part of the opposition, namely the Greens. Secondly, Mr Bundeskanzler could, of course, have made a statement on the Iraq crisis in line with the global political situation, in the context of this special meeting, namely before the urgent debate followed. [[Abg. Prince: What does this have to do with a correction?]] This would have been the consent of all the political groups. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What kind of correction is this?]] This only in order not to cause confusion!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3197	Mr Heinzl has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3215	High house! The voters will be elected at the Landtag elections in Lower Austria on 30 June. ==References====External links== I'm allowed to present a sample copy of this poll. [[The speaker unfolds a pattern of a poll and keeps it up-to-date.]] This is the poll for the Lower Austrian country election. The electorate will be able to read two short names of two candidate parties who do not have the distinction required by the Constitution. To make it clear here again: The Social Democrats voted against the approval of the short name ‘GRÜNÖ’ at the relevant meeting of the State Electoral Authority, because – and we are firmly convinced of this – two parties on the electoral paper are not clearly different for the electorate – as the Constitution demands. Therefore, the decision of ÖVP and FPÖ in the Lower Austrian State Election Authority is an attempt at an enormous suffrage. In addition, this shows once again the attitude of the ÖVP-Niederösterreich on democratic issues. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Anyone who knows only a little about the Lower Austrian state policy knows that the ÖVP reached far below 50 percent of the votes during the last country election in Lower Austria. However, Mr Pröll – with the active support of Minister of the Interior of Strasser – is in the process of “shattering ” Lower Austria to 100 percent. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Therefore – and there can You still laugh like that – this uncontrolled power needs control! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] As urgent as this is necessary, the achievements of the ÖVP functionaries in Lower Austria show. You will start roaring now, but you can't roar it away, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: Your ÖVP Landesrat Sobotka has illegally speculated 3.7 billion schilling or 272 million €. That's a fact! This illegality has also been demonstrated and demonstrated by the well-known constitutional expert University Professor Dr. Öhlinger. Mr Wittmann has already given some examples of what could have been done with this speculated money. For example, it could also be possible to support the 52 000 unemployed Lower Austrians with this money. But the more than 1,000 young people who are looking for a teaching centre in Lower Austria could also be given a chance with this money. You could do a lot of things with it. But the money's gone. Mr Sobotka and his friends from the ÖVP have sent it to various stock exchanges! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: This is pure campaign!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Had the Lower Austrian finance council Sobotka of the ÖVP only had the sparks of political grace and character, he would have resigned for a long time, I say this in all clarity! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Only election campaign!]] [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Spindelegger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The only thing that makes the ÖVP Lower Austria is to give beautiful speeches all year round, Sunday speeches, and on election day, try to elect. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Win and work for our people!]] Since the spring of 2000, Pröll has been running a double black and blue game. He is responsible for black and blue – this is also important today. In May 2000, he was very proud to be the architect of the blue-black government. At the end of February 2003, he made his nephew the Minister of Agriculture with the votes of the FPÖ. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Soon, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, all 17 Lower Austrian members of the ÖVP will have the opportunity to take action against the threatened steps of the Blue-Black Federal Government. But I'm already prophesying: The head of the state of Lower Austria will no longer resist it after the election of the Landtags. I would like to say, because this is really important to me, to all Lower Austrians: Who at the Landtagswahl on 30. March Pröll chooses, at the same time chooses bowl, main and shark! This is the unstained truth.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3327	Mr Wattaul has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3382	Mr President. High house! Everyone asks why the Greens are making a special meeting today. The real reason for this is: You're afraid of a party split! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What about your seven gentlemen?]] I'll give you a few examples, then I'll You're not laughing anymore. I was at an election event of the Greens in Amstetten. There, Mrs. Petrovic is standing in a green tent, left and right of her each a foreign-Austrian, the two have balloons distributed. After Ms. Petrovic stopped talking, Kurdish folk music was played in the background. I've been thinking about what the message of this show is. This can only be loud: My dear Lower Austrians, throw away your costume suit, forget your folk songs, forget your culture, multiculturally announced! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Well, we don’t sing the “Horst-Wessel-Lied”!]] That's your policy, Spittelberg policy! The Lower Austrians did not understand. People came to me and asked me: What's going on? I said to them: Yes, the Greens are! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and detonatative condolences to representatives of the Greens.]] This is also true of the green officials in Lower Austria. That is why there is a second Green Group in Lower Austria. What does that mean if there are two groups of a party in a federal state? I will tell you once what if there were two free parties in Lower Austria. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens: Give it soon!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Not two! Four!]] That would be on all front pages! Do you know why this isn't on the front pages in the case of the Greens? – Not because the media don’t want to write it, but because it doesn’t interest anyone! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] The policy of the Greens is not interested in anyone in Lower Austria. Ask You are a low-Austrian, what the Greens have achieved in the last five years in the country! You won't hear anything because there's nothing. And that's your dilemma! Now, Mrs Petrovic abuses a special meeting of the National Council for Election Advertising in Lower Austria. This is because your election campaign is not running because you do not take anyone seriously! That's your problem! I would like to say one more word on the short term ‘green’. [[Abg. Oils: Please!]] In short, there should be no names. But with the greens, “green” is a name. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] To this end, I have a proposal: You could name yourself in VPPÖ, which means: United Populist Party of Austria. [[New ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That would be the right name for you, because you haven't been green for a long time. Not everywhere “green” stands on it is green inside. We have seen this during the government negotiations. After all, you fell down as a layman at every point: [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] Temelín, environment, social standards. What does the Lord have? Van der Bellen? – Well, we have to bite into the acid apple, then we buy a catcher. - That's your policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's clear you're scared. I repeat: You're scared! – It’s nice that television is here today so you can say that. – Today, the splitting of the Greens in Austria begins, which is the truth, because you no longer have a programme at all. You just want to sit inside and check more posts. Here we give Mrs Petrovic back to Lower Austria, the Weinzinger to Vienna. What's that? What do you have for topics? Look at your posters in Lower Austria! What does the Green Party say in Lower Austria? - Nothing because she has nothing more to say. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3533	I call Mr Brosz. I'd like to set the clock to 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3551	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! First of all, let me return to the framework conditions of this sitting and the question why there has not been a debate on a current world policy issue here. They were very evocative about the fact that the opposition raised the possibility that there could have been a debate here on Iraq too. It's not been that long. I would like to remind you that it was on 19 November. A special meeting, requested by SPÖ on August 2, 2002 announced a urgent request for a referendum for the purchase of a catch-up hunter and, in the meantime, between the introduction and the debate, a declaration by the Federal Chancellor on floods took place in Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you brought one to Iraq?]] What was possible about floods half a year ago would have been possible today on the issue of Iraq war if the chancellor had wanted it. He apparently didn't want it. It is the Federal Chancellor's responsibility not to have done so. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I can tell you why the Federal Chancellor was not here before – and I mention this praise, because it is nothing bad: He opened the Panda in Schönbrunn. If he hadn't been there, there could have been a debate here. On your comments, Mr President, I would like to return to the following questions: You know what surprises me? – You say here about the speaker's desk and you also shout from your place: There's no reason for an election challenge, that's completely right! I wonder who the constitutional lawyers in Austria are: Theo Öhlinger, who says no doubt, is more than a legal problem, who says that it is possible for the Greens to challenge the election at the Constitutional Court, or the constitutional lawyer Mayer, who said: As has been shown, this is a clear risk of confusion! and makes it clear that this decision is not correct. Mayer and Öhlinger – they count for me. On constitutional issues, I do not take your word as seriously as that of the constitutional lawyer Mayer and Öhlinger. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Strasser – before he was sitting there as Minister, now he is no longer there – has developed a certain tradition of dealing with the admission of other parties in Lower Austria. Let’s blend back: “profile” from June 1993: According to an issue, the “profile” has a confidential internal seat information, whose authenticity State Secretary Ernst Strasser confirmed to the magazine. The purpose of the VGÖ, then the United Greens of Austria, was therefore to collect support signatures for the United Greens in order to reduce the opportunities of the Parliamentary Greens for entry into the country day, as stated in the issue. In 1993 the same game with another party, then the VGÖ, at the time the current Minister of the Interior, led to support a suffrage, as it is now happening. And you sit down and say again now – and I find that remarkable – there is no reason to act. Now I'm seriously wondering: Does that mean, at the next elections in Lower Austria, the next municipal council election, the next country election, that is exactly what is going to happen again? Will your mayors then send out your country Party Secretarys to support any candidate for election so that it can lead to a suffrage? Is that what you're trying to do? Is that your wish? If not, you should set a sign here today that such a thing is no longer possible. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It is difficult to understand here in the house, but I would like to draw the attention of the spectators at home to the fact that no one and none of the Green Members has spoken here today about Lower Austrian national policy, no one, not Madeleine Petrovic, not Eva Glavischnig, not Alexander Van der Bellen. We are talking about a democratic procedure that we consider unacceptable. They are talking about the merits of Mr Pröll, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. That was your theme. We wanted to ensure that this election does not have to be challenged, and that is our right.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3622	I call Mr Spindelegger. He wishes 5 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3640	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Democracy seems to be for the Green Party: If there is a green competitor, then the constituency is. For this we are not available from the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The core of the accusation you raise is that the voters in Lower Austria obviously are not able to make their cross in the right place in the electoral cell. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of all the Lower Austrian voters, I would like to point this out to the sharpest! The Lower Austrians are not so stupid that they cannot make their cross at the right party! You won't be able to agree with us today either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen: It is already very interesting that the new group “GRÜNÖ” with Mrs Wladyka at the top of you is turned away as if you did not know this lady. For many years she has been for you in the council of Perchtoldsdorf – she is still there! – for many years she was her hanging sign in the district of Mödling. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] We have already heard today, 1998, during the last country election, Mrs. Vladyka, whom you presented today as if she were not worth mentioning, was her top candidate of the Greens in the district of Mödling, ladies and gentlemen! [[New Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] Today, Mrs Petrovic, you have read what Mrs Wladyka said in 1998. I agree with you that this is really to be condemned. That someone is compared to a Nazi, that really doesn't need anyone. But at that time, Mrs Petrovic, she was a full member of you and your representative. And I find this immense that someone in the Green Party can make such statements, apparently fully covered by party leadership. That's what we're going to reject! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to say something about this. The fact that someone has acted against the EU like Mrs Vladyka has until recently been the subject of green policy. This has changed only in recent years. That is, Mrs Vladyka was part of a green spectrum that was absolutely against the European Union. We never did. She never joined us. I was with her myself at panel discussions, even when Mrs. Petrovic was on the road in the Mödling district and she was fully supported by Mrs. Wladyka. Therefore: Operation You don't have a child-moving woman today who has made you grow up in your ranks for many years, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I can add one more thing: It is a really bad conflict management within the Green Party. Just because Mrs. Wladyka is joining the country election, you want us to know that the National Council has to hold as a stage for this. We are not available for this either, and I think it is a bad choice of topics that we have to sit here today because of such a name in the country election campaign! I would like to say the following about the role of the Social Democrats in this context: If you've listened to the speakers, you've already noticed one thing: Mr Heinzl makes us aware that the SPÖ would have always been able to choose these party names and the short names in this way. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, in four-fifths of all the assembly authorities there were unanimous decisions on this short name. That is, the SPÖ voted in favour, Mr Heinzl. Unanimous decisions! Mr Heinzl, you will not be able to deny this by intervening calls. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, I would also like to say a clear word on housing promotion in Lower Austria. Mr. Sobotka, as a housing expert, has made sure that in the future Lower Austrian house builders will receive only 1% of interest on loans made available to them by the state government as loans. That was the reason for this stock investment. And four times, Mr Heinzl, your members of your government and members of the country voted! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] In this context, Mr Wittmann called for more control, forgetting that in Lower Austria there are three members of the state government of the Social Democrats. The mystery I'd like to give you to the conclusion is: Who is actually the top candidate of SPÖ in Lower Austria? [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] No one has mentioned them so far, and I think this mystery will be up to 30. It is not possible to resolve it either.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3775	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3794	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that it is strange that this party authorisation was made, because not only the registered name, but also the short name, is an essential part of a party designation. In fact, people use this term, and that is why we should exclude confusion. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, I find it very strange that, despite the statements made by the leading candidate of the ‘GRÜNÖ’, support from the Austrian People's Party was given on such a broad basis. It cannot be said, as Mrs Mikl-Leiter said, that this is a private matter of the mayors, a private matter of the councils. As I heard, some did not know that this list was supported with this content. I think it's worrying, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, when you use arithmetical possibilities so that it can really come to deception. And by the way, I do not think it is a good right to vote – even if the SPÖ has agreed to this – if the name counts before the party. I mean, either there is a splitting in a fair procedure – or it counts the name of the party. Nothing against personality-enhancing election measures, but it may not be that when a pomp chooses and the SPÖ ticks, this voice applies to the ÖVP and is lost to the SPÖ. In fact, there can be no such thing as that in democratic dealings, it is actually a vote that does not count because it expresses the choice of two parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to take the opportunity to point out that it is already unique that two or more company theories are always being developed here. For example, these “GRÜNÖ” have only received the necessary support in five constituencies. In order to be able to start nationally, three members of the Liberals have gradually signed, leaving a strange light on the entire government group of VP and FP. I would like to add something: Ladies and gentlemen, I find it extremely remarkable that if it becomes unpleasant for the respective party, it would be as if the Federal Party had no role or role in the implementation, for example, of the tax package. Mr Pröll has certainly played a very strong part in installing the cabinet bowl I. But when he realized that 80 percent of Austrians did not want the Cabinet Schüssel II at all – the continuation of this chaos government did not want 80 percent of Austrians – he went a short distance to the federal level, but to a very small distance: He himself is represented with a low Austrian from his family, but that is not the subject. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Two!]] Only one of his family is represented! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it is finally time for the Lower Austrians to see that there is a unity of responsibility and not so: Here I am the head of state, here everything is quite different – and what the “evil” federal party of the ÖVP does does not matter to me! I mean, it is a question of fairness that one stands on the political decisions of his party, at all levels, at the national and federal levels. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the ÖVP is placarding, Lower Austria is a beautiful country, then I agree; we have contributed a lot to it. But Lower Austria is too beautiful to be just black!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3861	Mrs Sburny spoke in favour of an actual correction. 2 minutes. Please start with the facts that you want to correct – and face the corrected facts with no comments. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3883	Mr Spindelegger noted that the current top candidate for ‘GRÜNÖ’ in 1998 in Mödling was a top candidate for the Greens and that the Greens had fully covered their then Nazi comparisons. – That’s wrong! On the contrary, Mrs W.'s comments at the time led to a party exclusion procedure, which was then initiated at that time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3913	Now, Mrs Deputies is coming. Binder's word. Speaking time 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3931	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Green or ‘GRUNÖ’, that is the question, and I really think that the uncertainty is very great and above all the difference between the parties is much greater. In principle I also mean that in Lower Austria we have many interested and informed voters who certainly know what they are doing. But the approval of the short name “GRÜNÖ” and the support of this party by signature is the one side of the medal, the other side of the medal actually looks different. I listened very carefully to Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer's wits. I mean, the intention behind it is very clear: With this designation, with this short name deliberately adopted, Greens have been weakened by a misunderstanding of party names, which is a conscious deception of voters, but the list of EU opposition, a declared anti-European party supported by numerous ÖVP officials and also ÖVP mandates, is behind the party ‘GRUNÖ’. – So much about the credibility and seriality of the EIA as a European party. For me, by the way, one thing is very interesting: The lack of the term “ÖVP” on the Pröll-Placaten in Lower Austria at all, and there it becomes indeed complicated. As the builder and architect of this FPÖ/ÖVP government, Pröll is now distanced from this ÖVP, and at the same time you, ladies and gentlemen from Lower Austria, will contribute and participate in this government programme, namely degradation, cuts and deterioration. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the circle concludes that country themes are very probably also federal themes. The double game, ladies and gentlemen, the constituency in Lower Austria actually goes on funny. Of course, the Landtagswahlsordnung plays an essential role in this, but in this election on 30 June. March, ladies and gentlemen, is not about the head of state. [[Call the ÖVP:Oja!]] In the first place, social democrats are concerned with the people of this country and with the political balance of forces. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I understand the culture of the ÖVP, because it has a system. All possible tricks are applied, and fairness and respect, as always required, are empty words, and I would like to present that using two examples. The head of state already feels disturbed and irritated by posters and transparency of other parties. They will be cleared away, they will be veiled. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: How sensitive is this man from Lower Austria? Is his claim to power really so uncontrollable and so immeasurable? The second example, ladies and gentlemen: Determined and approved funds for kindergartens in Lower Austria are held back by the head of state Pröll. The reason for this is – hear and marvel! –: Protocolary practices at the opening of these kindergartens were not observed. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's almost Majesty's policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I think that even in Lower Austria, we have to remain right. Decisions must also be implemented in Lower Austria. Sickness and sadness do not play a role in this, because the people concerned in this case, ladies and gentlemen, are the communities, the companies and their employees, and in kindergartens it is the children and their families above all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So much has been said about the concept of democracy and the misuse of competence of the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen. Thus, this circle closes on the topic of special meeting. I am very happy about this – I hope we can still be for a long time – that we live in a free country with free people and freely elected mandaters who then convene a special meeting when they believe it is necessary. What we need in Lower Austria, ladies and gentlemen, are indeed solutions for the future years and for the future challenges. Mr Spindelegger! Heidemaria Onodi in Lower Austria stands for just, human and social solutions!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3994	Mr Parnigoni. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Your remaining speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4012	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm still in the ear: Black-green has 'phantasy', Mr Pröll once said. At the same time, however, he has chosen a democratic and constitutional way of doing so as Head of the State Election Authority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] So you see, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, how it is with the ÖVP. We know that this dual strategy, which Mr Pröll has chosen, has also been continued in government. As an architect of the black and blue government I, he took responsibility for the entire load wave that broke in over us. For the continuation of black and blue he meant first, well, he doesn't want to, but now it has come. And all the EIA Members here in this House have gladly approved the Government Declaration and the motion for a resolution. They are also responsible for the burden on the population, according to the motto: Increased mineral oil tax, increased price for the vignette, no tax reform 2003 for this, Eurofighter instead of safe pensions in that country and NATO entry instead of neutrality security. [[Abg. Less populism!]] That's the motto of this government. The Lower Austrian People's Party and its head of state also bear full responsibility for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nor can anyone take away the responsibility of Sobotka State Councillor. This is not a question at all, because he is responsible for the placement of all the plants. And it is a fact that at last €273 million has been wasted and wasted on the roulette table of the international stock market. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kößl: Better stick to the truth!]] You should have made sure, ladies and gentlemen, that these funds are made available as a 100% compensation for flood victims. That would have been a big deal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But you couldn't get through with that. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In fact, you do not really care what the unemployment situation is like in this country. In Austria, compared to February 2002, we have an average increase in the unemployment rate of 2.7 percent, while in Lower Austria there are 4.7 percent; I do not want to talk about the forest district as the situation is. – Ladies and gentlemen! There's something you'd have to do, but you're inability to act. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] How much power, ladies and gentlemen, do the ÖVP and the head of state still want to take advantage of? – colleague Binder has already spoken about the fact that posters of SPÖ and other parties, including the Blue, will be concealed when Mr. Landesführer appears. But the latest funny story is that Mr. Landeshuptmann is already making groundwork for projects that are only under discussion in 2006. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] As far as this power would go, in which the ÖVP is increasing and which the head of state is also exploiting. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to say that in view of this suffrage, which is carried out on the back of the Greens and which is carried out by the ÖVP using the right to vote, one can only ask the voters in Lower Austria and tell them quite clearly: If you tick Pröll, choose the ÖVP, choose with it bowl, head and all the horrors that come upon us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4113	Mr Donabauer is now on the floor. If desired, the clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4132	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! The Lower Austrian country election is intended to show that we want to continue working well for the country. Today's special meeting has been convened on the basis of a request, and there are several statements to that effect. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: application!]] Mr Parnigoni! If you do not like the country election right in Lower Austria, I can tell you that you have agreed to do so. You have also repeatedly referred to Mr Sobotka's Council today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] To this end, I can tell you: You have agreed to this project at four government meetings, so today you should not criticize something that you yourself have been responsible for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Free mandate!]] If you have a bad conscience in this context, I will give you a purchase order: HVB is called the magic word. You know it: 86 percent of the capital was played in Vienna! That's your performance! Please write this over your ears and not criticize us for how we work in Lower Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, to today's special meeting, which has been convened, because there is supposed to be no distinctive character, Mr Klubobmann [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] Van der Bellen, Mrs Petrovic and all her friends I say the following: please read the opinion of lecturer Dr. Bößjager, federalism expert, and of Professor Dr. Stolzlechner, constitutional expert, because both say that the distinction is very well given. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You admit that Sobotka played the money!]] You also know that Parliament cannot intervene in any way at this special session today. And if you have inconsistencies, you will go to the Constitutional Court anyway, and there things will be decided. That is why I think you could have used your quota of special sessions differently than for an advertising of your choice, which you need for these country elections to appear at all. This is your real problem, and you should talk about it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When Mr Klubobmann Today and here, Van der Bellen calls for a electoral reform, and I would have expected – with permission – that you say today: The letter election must finally be introduced in Austria. This is the element we have been waiting for for a long time, the element that blocks a large party in this Parliament and which we would urgently need. There's a need for action, and I'd ask you to go with me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That your problem is the name finding, that's legendary. Since 1988 there have been eight different company names with different personalities who have come and gone, there you have your difficulty. No, you've got a second one: They have no monopoly on the term “green” at all. You would have a monopoly on green work, but there are shortcomings, because that is really not recognizable. The ecological factor is missing from you, but every citizen knows that. [[Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,]] This is embarrassing for you in Lower Austria, because Lower Austria is a pattern country in this regard, you can read that. We make environmental policy with sensitivity and not with actionism, as you may sometimes be! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Another problem is that you want – that is your right – to the government. Please, you missed the chance. Unfortunately, you have massively destroyed your own hopes in federal politics. You didn't trust me. Couragelessness is your problem. Tell me openly! Because you didn't do anything on the federal level, you suddenly want to score big points in Lower Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] That's going to be You probably don't succeed, and that, I believe, is in truth your difficulty. A third thing: Mrs Petrovic! You're a wonderful lady. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No, no! That's where I have to contradict you!]] [[Further contradiction with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They were candidates at the Federal election as a top candidate in Lower Austria – unfortunately without any top results. Now you will again be the top candidate for the country election in Lower Austria without any excellence. This is your true dilemma. You don't know, Petrovic is federal political or national. Who's Mrs. Petrovic? – That is the question you should answer the voters, then you would move on. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Wonderful with negative signs!]] Finally, I can tell you the following: We have a very modern right to vote in Lower Austria, a right to vote. If you have problems, read the right to vote! It reads: Name counts in front of the party. If everything is so good, if you're already so good at it, if you already have such great hopes, say You have problems with the citizens, in your opinion, in the party distinction, but you have candidates who present you! – Unfortunately, God needs to get to know these people first. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Petrovic!]] That's your problem. Work with you in Lower Austria! We're making a good policy! Get in, and stop criticizing and getting out of here.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4318	As the last speaker, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4344	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! First of all, I would like to express my appreciation that you have, unfortunately, found the time for this joint special session in these very moving times. I do not consider this to be a matter of course, although it should be noted that Parliament is the highest body in the Republic in terms of democracy. But it may not have been so easy to find this date. Nevertheless, I have to get to the point and get back a few things and refer to you and also to colleagues from the ÖVP. First: The top-ranking candidate mentioned in this troubled list has, as it were, gone from the Greens when she left nothing else. If there were such transactions in any other party, it would look much clearer in this republic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Secondly, to look at things here in the house: Federal Chancellor! On the occasion of Volksanwalt Stadler and his statements, you have managed to speak here for 30 minutes without going into the same subject at all with a syllable – this is also the case. What's the basic problem? – Of course, it is the matter of the National Council if, in our opinion, federal constitutional regulations are violated, which is to be debated here. That is of course. Why you then refer to the Constitutional Convention is not a matter of course. That's not the nation's drawer! Where are we going to call on the Constitutional Convention when it comes to the abuse of power of the ÖVP?- Oh, my God! That is why the issue has been dealt with urgently here and today. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The basic problem remains – this allows the whole thing to be overwritten; “GRÜNÖ” back or forth – it is simply about the whole of Austria, now Lower Austria, in black hands. That is the basic issue of the meeting. This model Lower Austria is highly infectious. We see this with Federal Minister Strasser, under which appropriate conditions in the Ministry of the Interior have been included. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Red-white-red!]] He has hardly had the opportunity to do so, he has changed party-book-politically as part of the post-ordering process. These are the ruling states, and that is why we point this out. By the way, there is also in the Styria; Mr Lopatka is now a new colleague here. We had a similar problem there some years ago. Several green lists were available. Two of them, apart from the right greens, were forced by the ÖVP and one of them even paid by the ÖVP. When Lopatka was caught when he said that himself, I invited him to complain if he didn't stand it in the public. He has also announced that, only to this day he has not redeemed. Here I have the corresponding newspaper article. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This is the system of the ÖVP, which is to be extended throughout Austria. On the role of the liberals in this context: I think it's worth mentioning that you're talking about splitting trends. I think that will also be seen as a distraction maneuver. They place a “heavy in the carpentry pond. ” I can only tell you that in the control role you are now taking, you are most likely a goldfish in the shark basin. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That's your problem, and that's why you should rather hold back and meditate on the case of Rosenstingl, because you're still messing with it today. [[Abg. Scheibner: You should learn something in zoology, Mr. Cot! A goldfish in the shark pool will be hard to go!]] I come to the conclusion: At the federal level, the question remains who is actually a sustainable government constellation and who is not. We have always heard about the future and stability. The Mega-GAU on this matter is beginning. You have chosen the most unstable and least future-looking model, Mr. Federal Chancellor! That is why you will have to justify it. This is no more or less than about democracy and abuse of power. That is why a new government would be announced in this respect too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4421	Mr Lopatka spoke in favour of an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. First to be corrected and then to the right facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4453	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler has made two statements here. First, he claimed that the ÖVP had forced the Green Lists. Secondly, he claimed that the ÖVP had even paid for two lists. [[Call the Greens: One! One!]] - One! That's wrong! Whether one or two: It's wrong! Rather, there is no monopoly for a party to run as a green party. Take note of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Violent calls at the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is true that in Styria at that time, the Greens of Austria, the Green Alternative List of Styria, Greens of Styria and Greens of Nuclear Oil, were candidates. [[Abg. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] None of these lists has in any way had the support of the Styrian People's Party. [[Abg. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Would you please apply the Rules of Procedure?]] I'm correcting: None of these lists has received financial or other support. [[Abg. Bures: This is the Khol’s friendship service!]] There were activists of various provenances, who came in four lists. That's right!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4569	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: His group's remaining speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4587	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A lot, Mr Lopatka, we have not heard from you what had been a substance. We should have liked a new ÖVP Secretary-General to see him take more serious political concerns than he had so far been in the ÖVP. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] What we had to learn and obviously have to learn – that is, we do not agree, Mr Lopatka – is the recipe of the ÖVP-Nederösterreich, which is obviously to be generalized – in the example of Strasser it has already been pre-examinationed, that is: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Lopatka]] [[Abg. Kößl: We live in a democracy!]] Don't give the opposition a chance! Weak opposition where it goes! Send her lists to her neck so that she'll deal with herself and not with the government party! If there's something in the country that's agitating, then let people know, whether they're tricks or people, there's a hand that feeds them, and you can't bite them! [[Abg. Kößl: The problem is that GRÜNÖ is not a party but a movement!]] – We have already heard of a party in this house, and in the example of Lower Austria, the ÖVP has been exaggerating what it means for decades! This is not good for the country, ladies and gentlemen. That's not good! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This is the task of a responsible opposition. It is not enough for me, so little like the other members of both opposition parties, that in Lower Austria there is a country father who stands up and says: I have nothing to do with all this! [[Abg. Kößl: Lower Austria is lovable and worth living!]] I don't know what you're talking about, I don't have anything to do with that! I am responsible for the election commission, but I have nothing to do with the election commission's decision. That's the system! If you, Mr Lopatka, stand here and say, I don't know how this happened, but the ÖVP has not supported and financed any lists,...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4668	(Parliament agreed to the request for an early vote)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4683	... then you only confirm that it is fact and fact that this system of ÖVP is obviously being implemented throughout Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4713	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the self-employed motion 70/A (E) by Mr Van der Bellen, colleagues, on an amendment to the National Council electoral system and on the establishment of minimum federal constitutional standards for country elections. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Eva Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, on minimum federal constitutional standards for country elections. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-03-19-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4765	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 70/A and 71/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 191/J to 219/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 26 March. It will be convened in writing at 9 a.m. on March 2003. Before I close the meeting, two more messages: One is for the members of the Presidential Conference: The Presidential Conference will now take place immediately after this meeting, at 4:45 p.m., in the usual locality. I would also like to point out that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is continuing its debate on current issues from the committee's work on GATS at the local level. The sitting is closed.
