ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00042_d7e379	The 42. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Sima, Nuremberger, Mag. Posch and Dr. Pilz. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00042_d7e407	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00042_d7e587	Amendment No 314/A (E) by Mrs Parnigoni, ladies and gentlemen, on the comparability of criminal statistics, I am assigning it to the Committee on the Interior. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 28 May. January 2004, envisaged, will be convened in writing. Address by the President
ParlaMint-AT_2003-12-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00042_d7e619	Ladies and gentlemen! This is the last meeting in the first year of XXII. legislative period. Let me give you a few more words, despite my reckless voice. It was a busy year for all of us with intensive committee activity, with intensive plenary activity, and I would like to say that it is a nice job to work with all of you. The committees were extremely active and fruitful, the plenary debates – I looked at comparative data – were in no way different from before. The number of calls for orders has become much lower, and I would like to thank you for that. Parliament has greatly expanded its international contacts as part of the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union. I know that this means a lot more work for you all, and for that too, I mean, thank you. I would particularly like to thank the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate. Since I was President of the House, I have once again learned the quality of this extremely well-led, well-trained and highly motivated staff, and I would like to thank everyone for their commitment, motivation and for the joy with which you work. [[General condolences.]] I would also like to thank the members of the Presidential Conference. This is the governing body which, in consensus, determines the timetable, the outside appearance, contacts and how we operate. I would like to express my express thanks to the Second President, the Third President, to the four club members and to the Parliamentary Director. Our meetings are delightful concis, and I think we can maintain a good style in this house. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[General condolences.]] I wish you all, ladies and gentlemen, and the employees of the house and their families a blessed Christmas and a happy, healthy and for every successful new year. [[General condolences.]] The sitting is closed.
