ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e1674	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is open. I very much welcome you all to the first meeting in the new year – and I hope we have a good year ahead of us. I am particularly pleased that the President of the Federal Council and the Federal Council Director are attending our debate. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] The Official Protocols of 1 and 2. ==References== In December 2002, the Parliament's Directorate remained inaccurate and undisputed and therefore considered approved. Deputies Dr. Huainigg and Mag. Lunacek. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e1721	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] The following negotiating items have also been obtained since the last meeting: Court of Auditors’ Activity Report for the 2001 Administrative Year (III-1 of Supplements), Report of the Court of Auditors in accordance with Art. 1 § 8 Relevant limitation law for the years 2000 and 2001 (III-3 of the supplements), Twenty-fifth Report of the Public Procuratorate (1. Years until 31. (III-4 of the Supplements), Report by the Federal Government on the situation of disabled people in Austria (III-7 of the supplements), Report of the accreditation rate in accordance with § 4 para. 9 UniAkkG, BGBl. I No. 168/1999 i.e. F. on the activity of the Accreditation Council in 2001, presented by the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture (III-8 of the Supplements), Report of the University of Applied Sciences in accordance with § 6 para. 2 Z 7 FHSTG on the activity of the University Council in 2001, presented by the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture (III-9 of the Supplements). [[The allocation can only be made after the choice of the specialist committees.]] Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e1833	Let's go into the agenda. In the Presidential Conference, consensus was reached on design and The debate is over time. Accordingly, a day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP 133, SPÖ 119, Free and Green per 84 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. 1. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 6/A by Dr Michael Spindelegger, Mag. Karl Schweitzer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law which amends the salary law 1956, the contract staff law 1948, the Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz 1984, the Richterdienstsgesetz and the Civil Service Service Law 1979 (Soldungs-Novelle 2003) (3 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e1879	We now proceed to item 1 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Neugebauer has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e1904	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Novelle remuneration in 2003 essentially has the outcome of the negotiation of the remuneration scheme for the federal staff and for the national teachers per 1. January 2003 to the content. The result is known: a valorization of the references by 2.1 percent. The salaries are increased by at least € 30. It was important to us in the negotiations that, for reasons of purchasing power security and from social aspects, people with low incomes are particularly taken into account; in the Federal Service, this concerns about one third of employees. Ladies and gentlemen! Six federal states await today's decision-making in order to be able to decide on the same rules for staff in the countries and municipalities in the country parliaments. Three federal states have already done this in an advance. I therefore suggest that future negotiations, as we did earlier, should also be held on the employer side with authorised representatives of the countries as well as with the municipal and municipal authorities, which was to say vice versa that on the employee side, in addition to the public service trade union, the trade union of local staff would be invited. I refer to the explanatory remarks of today's presentation, in which the written agreement with the Federal Government is also filed and in the third paragraph it is pointed out that the salary agreement of October 2000 still needs a reference for the past year. Yesterday, as happened in all European Union countries, Statistics Austria announced the inflation rate for the last year at 12 o'clock. We don't need to talk long about the difference between 0.8 and 1.8 percent. We have recently agreed with Mrs Vice-Chancellary – and I thank you very much for this – that we will meet soon because of the technical implementation of this project. I refer to Article 5, in which it is stated that, due to the structural changes, hundreds of planning posts have been saved in the ministries due to the changes in the organization, and of course new names will come. In an amendment, a single planning point has been added, which is the executive plan post of the Deputy Director-General for Public Security, which is the Administrative Officer. It is about that – in analogy to the military, for example, where the major general also has an A 1/7 function; in the military this is an M name – a place. This has become necessary due to the organisational changes. Ladies and gentlemen! I use this opportunity to take a very short look at the fact that – which is almost natural – always when it comes to budget forecasts, when it comes to new structures, the public officials are naturally in the perspective of media interest. I would like to thank you for all the sound, serious suggestions that will help us with reforms, but also for the fact that we are confronted with donations of words that are suitable for bringing uncertainty and frustration to our colleagues. That is what we can do – and I say that in all clarity – to do away with. There are word donors who draw visionary scenarios without really being able to describe the present. That is superfluous – I say it again in all clarity. I would like to express my express thanks to all the employees of the federal, state and local authorities for their high level of expertise and for the commitment they place on them in the implementation of those provisions that we impose on them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is not only an important contribution to the stability of our rule of law, but also an important parameter for the successful economic location Austria. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e1968	Mr Pendl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e1986	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This new law also includes the 2003 salary for the public service. Allow me, personally, but also on behalf of my group, to thank all the public servants, all my colleagues for their services and for their commitment to our home country and its citizens very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In modern times, much is considered to be self-evident. I am thinking, for example, of how we here in the House often consider the achievements of the employees of the Parliamentary Directorate to be self-evident. You, too, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen here in the house, our personal thanks for your support and commitment. [[General condolences.]] I believe – as my previous speaker has already pointed out – that the current salary statement, negotiated at the social partners level, is good both in the interests of workers and in the interest of the Federal Government, even though we are all constantly faced with savings. I should like to point out, as my previous speaker has said, that I would like to request and invite to negotiate future salary rounds – as was the case in the past – together with representatives of the countries, cities and communities. It was important and necessary that this salary statement includes not only a percentage of 2,1, but also a social component with an increase of at least 30 €. In this connection, I shall come to speak in one area, namely, one established in the law of the service. There is no question at all that a scheme is also being dealt with here, which in the A scheme is a matter of course for all and is also such in the M-Schema. We understand that not only is a desire of the executive – in the specific case: a desire of the federal army – which lies at the heart of the implementation of a regulation for the executive, namely those in the field of E1/12. What I do not understand – in terms of content there is no discussion at all – is, however, that, although one hears and reads of the “new quality of dealing with one another” and “new policy” over and over again, one has brought this point before the Committee meeting by means of an amendment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I also say quite openly – and we have discussed this in detail in the Committee on Budgets – that those questions referred to in Article 5 are still a thoughtful vote for me. In this context, I agree to address the following three questions. First: If, in a law novel, namely the salary law, we all stand on a salary account, and where we all keep trying to make the costs as efficient as possible, but one in the service part of the same novel – even if I already know your arguments that sections and departments have been saved – raises the number of function groups from eight to nine, I must already ask you, ladies and gentlemen, whether the thousands of colleagues in the public service will understand. I am glad that about 30 percent of colleagues benefit from the ‘at least € 30’ scheme, but, ladies and gentlemen, What the upgrade to Function Group 9 is achieved, where you are already at the highest level – and I am really not one who would not afford anything to another – I leave it to your assessment, ladies and gentlemen, what those colleagues who receive €30 more will think, if already well qualified people get a multiple of that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, this Article 5 raises further questions. It has always been so – and it will be so now, even if it will only be the case in a few weeks; I do not know how long it will take for us to have a new federal government – that, as one of the first legislative works, we have had a federal ministerial law here in the National Council. Does anyone, ladies and gentlemen, believe that public servants and the public understand that anyone understands why something is being changed here today in the area of the sections on which it is about renamings or reorganisations, if something else is decided on the same matter in the same sections concerned in a few weeks anyway? That is why, as I believe, the matter could have been truly well served if, in a few weeks, just under a new Federal Ministry Act, these things had also been taken into account. And something else, ladies and gentlemen, There have been some changes – you won’t get away from the discussion; but I don’t want to mention a particular place now, you all know that anyway – which were, so to speak, medially accompanied. And precisely these sections can also be found in Article 5. Of course, there is the discussion that actions that have been set up in recent weeks and months should now be simply legalized by legislative decision. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: What ministry do you think?]] – You know exactly what sections this is about! I mean, dear. Ladies and gentlemen: In the interests of the matter, in the interests of the staff concerned, who do not have any pleasure in being pushed back and forth, as it were, but also in order to ensure a better understanding by the public, it would have been good to wait for these few weeks in this respect and thus give the new government the opportunity to present to the National Council a proper federal ministerial law. In any event, we from the SPÖ Group have tabled the request for a separate vote in Article 5. At any rate, I mean – and here I am quite with my previous speaker – that the public officials should not be further insecured. These are an important part and a guarantee for the proper course of events in our Republic. Public service is therefore not to be thought away. In any event, we from the SPÖ Group will make our contribution to ensuring that this will continue to be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2046	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. Speech time: 10 minutes. [[The gallery throws numerous leaflets.]] [[Individual visitors to the gallery keep letters in the direction of the meeting room, which gives the text ‘Atomfree Europe’ and ‘Greenpeace’.]] I interrupt the meeting and ask the staff of the house to remove the leaflets! I'm also trying to stop the demonstration at the gallery, or I'll let them clear!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2085	The sitting was resumed. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. - Please. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer talks to Dr. Riess-Passer, who is on the government bank.]] – I ask the speaker to take the floor!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2116	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am somewhat surprised to hear my two previous speakers, who, under these conditions, have not sufficiently honoured a statement of salary more than socially just for officials, but this is a statement of salary negotiated under the most difficult conditions, which is socially very fair. 2.1 percent or at least € 30 for each federal employee in addition from 1. January 2003 is a tangible result – a more than tangible result, because it is still an extremely socially acceptable solution. To achieve such a conclusion during the period of fiscal consolidation can be described as a particularly good result, one that is due in particular to the negotiating skill of Mrs Vice-Chancellor, and therefore I am very grateful now for Mrs Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition, it was not mentioned that the inflation rate for the past year will also be negotiated in these days, and that will also be achieved. So another success to be expected for officials in the next few days. [[Abg. May. Molterer: (to the still demonstrating visitors to the gallery) The demonstration is not yet over!]] This conclusion ensures that about a third of the federal employees in the lower incomes sector – and that is what it is all about, and, Mr Neugebauer, I would have liked this to be a bit appreciated; I did not expect this from my colleague Mr Pendl anyway...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2199	I'll interrupt the meeting until the gallery is cleared.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2232	I'll start the meeting again. Mr Mag. Schweitzer, please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2257	Thank you, Mr President. . I believe it is important to note that in the course of these salary negotiations it was possible to achieve a third of federal employees in the lower income sector to expect a higher income growth than this 2.1 percent. A new quality of the government that we have had over the last three years was the fact that there has always been particular consideration for lower and medium-sized income recipients. This is the new quality of a federal government that has shown that it is capable of reform as a whole and has set in motion something in Austria, which has not been the case for a long time, namely that reforms have actually been implemented in all areas. I think it is important – but I have missed this with my previous speakers – to thank Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer in particular for having done a real key part of necessary work in the administrative reform within a very short time. In connection with the structural reform between the Federal Government and the Länder, it has set up projects which will be particularly effective in the future. This also applies to the areas of administrative adjustment and personnel savings, where Mrs Vice-Chancellor has already put very much on track and what will become budget effective. More than 8,000 officials – without any problems – have already been saved, resulting in a total savings effect of more than € 1 billion. This is indeed a good piece of work in times of budget consolidation, and the Vice-Chancellor and all those who have contributed to it are due to thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would have expected my previous speakers to respond. In the area of federal agreements, 79 percent of all projects have already been completed; the rest is in the implementation phase. In the field of judicial reform, Federal Minister Böhmdorfer has already implemented a great deal – against the resistance of the “princes of the country”, to the resistance of local politicians, including the government parties. [[Abg. Marizzi: That’s why you “gave” in the election!]] The listing of 31 places of jurisdiction, which are no longer modern, has actually happened, leading to substantial savings, savings that are urgently necessary. Overall, very, very many effective reforms have been implemented in other areas as well. In this context, I just remember the one-stop/one-shop principle, also in national affairs implemented by this ministry. So very, very successful years of reform in the Ministry of Justice – even though, Federal Chancellor, there is still a lot of work ahead of us. I mean, it's high time to start this work or continue work. I am now just grasping out some essential things that have to be done urgently: Reform of service law, reduction of the number of representative bodies, further reform of administrative units, a state reform and so on, that is, a great many things that need to be done and done. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I am saying this, since time has already been used to talking to each other, which we have all experienced in the last few days. It is time for those forces who are ready to reform – even if these reforms are not popular – to finally start to continue, or, if they have not yet begun, to start with it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It does not make sense to withdraw from party political positions and, as it were, insist on being stoned there, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. However, this is your trademark: Entrepreneurship, immutability, involuntary reform. These are the trademarks of the SPÖ, and this cannot be necessary for a country that is to be competitive in the future. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] You have no reform force from the SPÖ, you are involuntary to reform, you are unable to reform – and you have proved this enough in the last few weeks, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] You of the SPÖ have tried to negotiate with the ÖVP in recent days. The result was that you talked to each other because you were only pursuing party-political interests from SPÖ. Who – as Andreas Koller puts it in today’s issue of the “Salzburger Nachrichten” – builds “precautionary explosives”, “which are placed in such a way that their detonation” can “be charged to the negotiator, which indeed lacks any will to necessary reforms. This lacks the power of reform, which is urgently needed, even if Austria is to be internationally competitive in the future. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the time for tactical games is over! Austria needs a reformable government! It's time! All constructive forces are called upon to present to the Austrian population as soon as possible an actionable government team.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2339	I call Mr Kogler. I'd like to set the clock to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2358	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) After the flight of Mr Schweitzer – from whereverever he may refer his motives – I would rather look at the current bill from the very bottom of reality. On the subject of remuneration reform, many things have already been said right here – this is also our agreement that we should say this in advance. But it took long enough for you to agree on a few points – indeed welcome – anyway. Mr Schweitzer has also referred to the administrative reform, which I would like to address briefly. In my opinion, the current government negotiations will also focus on who goes beyond headlines. If you, Mr Schweitzer, are already holding such a glowing appeal here, then perhaps you should do so towards the party that now has the relative majority here in the house – and not necessarily to the SPÖ Group. Why? I would be very interested – perhaps a follow-up speaker of the ÖVP can provide information about this – as one imagines with the administrative reform. This has always been a key word, but it is relatively difficult to understand the effects of the budget. In this context, I take out a point that is also reflected in this law: the teachers of the state. The Greens have long been ready to deal with this matter in such a way as to finally get rid of the principle that the federal states should order and pay the federal government with its credit card so to speak. Is that a sensible principle? . Now I am no longer addressed to you, Mr Schweitzer, but to the colleagues of the ÖVP. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who pays, creates!]] I believe that it is a fundamental principle of any administrative reform, even in the light of the fact that the responsibility for expenditure and tasks is to be reconciled. Let's talk about this with your heads of state! It is a bit contrary to me, I would like to say that over and over again from national conferences, but also in the negotiations for financial compensation, in particular, the Phalanx of the ÖVP heads of state so dominates that the federal government does not continue with many of its reform projects at all. Perhaps you too, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, can comment once again on this issue, because this would be a rewarding issue that could be debated once again today on the occasion of this bill. We of the Greens are at least ready to take such steps. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to refer to Article 5 which has already been mentioned. Indeed, it is that this one cannot find our consent. Why? – Hiebei is being implemented by law, which was so to speak at the administrative level: a reform of the division of tasks in the ministries, but we already feel that it is less about creating more efficient administrative structures, but that it is – with great effort to do so to external consultants! – very often it is about or that you actually get people with certain party belongings to the “right” place and get away “false people” under quotation marks, some of which have been adopted with the “golden handshake”, people whose achievements can be seen. Where the principle of saving has prevailed, you have to explain to me, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! In my opinion, it is still more reasonable for someone to take a walk with 80 percent of his Gage for years, with 50 percent of working time, to use 80 percent of the pay return on me. The Republic can't be so unorganized that it can't be used for these highly qualified people anymore! – Have that She's trying to sell her as a "administrative reform"! Otherwise, there's not much to see. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As I said, I would be interested in who takes the match with the federal states. That's what we're trying to fix in the next few weeks. On this point, I can agree with Mr Schweitzer's comments, namely that something must finally happen in this area. Finally, I should like to mention a single point which has at least caused considerable awareness in the Committee. Many new Members who spend their first working session here today may or should ask themselves why a law needs to be changed for the function and use of a single official. – Doesn't that seem funny to you? I confess that it is sometimes necessary that there are such possibilities because otherwise there is no way. In this case, however, the suspicion is that this is also the case in the action that we have learned in recent years in the Ministry of Minister Strasser, it is therefore the relevant methods of action – processes which have been maintained by the F-ministeria even after the new election was launched: Colour where it goes. In the new legislative period, we will have to talk, including in the Court of Auditors' Committee, about whether this has always been the best of the Republic. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The old speech!]] This change of law – in relation to a single official – raises at least questions that could not be answered in the Committee. I hope that you will succeed better today than Mr Finz in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2444	Mrs. Vice-Chancellor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2465	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have the implementation of the salary statement for the year 2003 on the agenda. It has already been said by my previous speakers that the agreement we agreed on on 29 October. Having met the Public Service Union in October 2002, it reads: 2.1 percent increase in salary, but at least € 30. The objective – that was the goal of all the salary accounts I had to negotiate in my department responsibility – was to allow justice, in particular, to be met by small income stakeholders. That means that this is a degree which is socially fair and balanced. This was a requirement that we had in mind as early as 2000 when we were negotiating a conclusion for the years 2001 and 2002. We negotiated an increase of 0.8 per cent with Mr Finz, the State Secretary at the time, 500 S fixed amount, and a rise of 0.8 per cent in 2002, which means that the lower third of the incomes in the public service were favoured. This is also justified because we have a shear: The low incomes in the public sector are disadvantaged compared to incomes in other sectors of the economy, which is not the case in the case of higher income categories. That's why we bought cuts there. This is social justice, as I understood it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would particularly like to thank the staff of my department. Negotiations were difficult, as was the case in the public, and they were not easy and took many nights. Nevertheless, we have achieved a good result, and this is primarily due to the excellent preparation and expertise of the employees of my department. I also thank the public service trade union. We have always negotiated very controversially, we have chosen some detour, which I think would not have been necessary, but since we have finally come to a conclusion it has been worthwhile. I believe that we have achieved a correspondingly good result for the employees of the public service with all three salary statements we have made in recent years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, we must also be honest and see that a number of tasks remain ahead of us for the future. The pay schedule of the public service is, as it is today, absolutely inconspicuous and complicated in many areas. With the infinitely many supplements and additional fees, a very complicated system has been created which leads to many injustices within the system and which is ultimately also anti-performance because it is not motivating for the employees. The implementation of a performance-oriented, modern and motivating salary scheme is therefore, I believe, a crucial task for the future. We have done the basic work for this. That is to say, one must now only have the political will to implement it in order to clean up the multi-class society we have within the public service. We have officials according to the old scheme, we have officials according to the new scheme, we have “contract staff old” and “contract staff”. tete new” – this is a state which is not to be maintained in this form – and – and that is the greatest injustice – we have, of course, very different regulations compared to the private sector. Creating justice in the labour market by achieving equal working conditions, career opportunities and pension conditions is the major challenge that should be seen across all party borders for the future. A modern employee's right to public service was our goal. We have, as has been said, done the preparatory work on this. You don't have to discuss and think about this for a long time now, but you can do that relatively quickly. In my opinion, this would have the very great advantage of creating a permeability between the private sector and public service. We currently have the grotesque situation that there is not even a change between the state service and the federal service, because the regulations are so different, let alone a change to the private sector or vice versa. I believe that both sides could benefit enormously. The private sector would benefit from the knowledge acquired by a person in the public service and from the skills he then brings, and vice versa, but also from the public service of people who worked in the private sector and who know the problems of the practice. If a person has made investments in the private sector, he will have a completely different understanding of investment law in the public service than if he has always done so from the desk. I consider this permeability, this flexibility to be a command of the future. The prerequisite for this is, of course, the creation of a uniform pension right, i.e. the harmonisation of pension systems in Austria. But this applies – I particularly stress – not only to the public service, but also to all the special pension rights we have in Austria. Mr Pendl! I appeal to you, too, because you are always in favour of social justice here at the speaker's desk. I would like you to say this to your railway workers once again when it comes to the right to pension for railways. This is also an issue that we must take into account in this context. That is to say, the abolition of all special pension rights and the creation of a uniform and fair pension system for all Austrians. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In principle, all proposals are on the table, including with regard to the state reform. They therefore allow me to make a personal remark that I do not think it is necessary – as beautiful as it is to have such discussions – to discuss and meet for several years, because we have known the discussion for thirty years. We know what to do. It is a question of political will. That is where my appeal is directed, in particular, to the countries. We've seen this in the so-called Achterrounde. We have been negotiating with the countries for one year on the measures of the reform of tasks and administration. It is therefore imperative to give the countries, the country leaders and the countryside the willingness not only to think about new distributions of competence in this area, but also to implement them, which means: Absence of competences on the part of the countries in order to be able to implement the objective of a slim state accordingly. We still have nine construction orders in Austria. We have nine Youth Protection Laws. These are things that you can actually explain to no one that has failed so far because of the rigidity of the systems. I would therefore very much like to see all these wonderful announcements that I am now hearing in connection with government negotiations, where everyone has a huge willingness to reform, ultimately lead to action. The Commission on Task Reform with Professor Raschauer and President of the Court of Auditors has presented a number of proposals. We have implemented 70 percent of these. What we could not implement was materials that require a two-thirds majority in Parliament. That is why my appeal is also addressed to the Socialist Group: I have heard what you, Dr. Gusenbauer, and many of your colleagues have outlined in recent weeks in connection with the administrative and state reform. To this end, I say: Message I hear well, faith is missing a little bit. All of these were proposals that we had on the table at the time and for which we did not receive your consent and the approval of your group. If you've been thinking about it, I'll be glad. Public service, like any other area, must adapt to the needs and challenges of a modern working world. This also means that we must implement restructuring and restructuring measures in the field of public service. We have achieved massive savings in the area of the Federal Central Offices, which I say in particular to you, Mr Pendl, because you have previously criticized: We have saved 13 sections, 54 groups, 121 departments and 225 units. This is – if you look at things in detail – an essential saving and no additional cost, because it sounded as if it cost more. On the contrary: We have achieved corresponding savings here. The fact that these measures were possible also has to do with the fact that, using the new technologies in the field of eGovernment, we have a model effect in Europe. Since January – and you will be pleased, Mr Niederwieser – you can make your wage tax declaration via the Internet. This saves you time, and this saves public administration time and money and meets the goal of a modern and slim administration. The savings we were able to achieve in the public service are considerable. We had – you know – made the goal of reducing 15 000 public servants during the previous legislative period. Although the legislative period has not found the originally planned end, we have exceeded the goal – if we start from the date at the end of last year. In the field of public service itself, i.e. in the Federal Administration, we have saved 10 279 staff or planning posts and by disbursement a further 2 368, so a total of 12 647 planning posts were saved. This includes, Mr Kogler, that is what I would like to say to your address, 801 planning posts, which have been saved on the basis of social plans. You, Mr Kogler, asked me how these savings were explained: This can be explained by the small one, Mr President, and I am very happy to do so. I've done it several times, but it seems you have to repeat it more often. It's easy: If I disband an organisational unit – for example, we have transferred the Federal Road Administration to the countries – then I have two possibilities: The first and most important step is that I see if I have other uses for these people in the Federal Service. If that is not the case, then I have two more options: either to leave them sitting and to pay 100 percent, although I do not have a job for these people anymore, or to send them to the early retirement with 75 percent and thus to save the taxpayer money. I would be very difficult at your place to explain to a taxpayer why you pay someone 100 percent, for which you actually don't have a job anymore. That's a simple fact; that's actually what anyone wants to calculate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With these measures, we have reduced the proportion of staff costs in the general budget – perhaps the most interesting number in this context – from 20.5 percent in 2000 to 19.7 percent in 2002, and this shows that we have achieved effective, sustainable and sustainable savings for the budget in this area. Public service is, as has been said, an area that is very essential because, so to speak, it is also the business card of the state towards the citizen. I have always seen the public service as a service for the public, for the citizen, whom one must consider as a customer, who has the right to receive the best possible performance, as cost-effectively as possible, as quickly as possible and as efficiently as possible. This is a common objective which, I believe, should be valid across all parties. I would very much like wish the next government to continue this course.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2592	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time will be adjusted to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2611	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by saying that I was able to go to the speaker's desk after Mrs Vice-Chancellor, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, to express my personal, but also the appreciation of the ÖVP Parliamentary Club. It could certainly be – none of us know how long the government probes or government negotiations take – that today's appearance here in the High House was your last appearance here in the House. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to say to you: Mrs. Vice chancellor! We have always appreciated your personal performance, your personal commitment, your goalfulness, your even charming non-avoidance of conflicts, but always linked to the goal of ending up with a consensus and a good solution. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the ÖVP]] You know it the same way: There are probably many people in this country who regret that you are leaving this government function. We respect this decision. I also very much hope that what you have said in your conclusions, namely that the next government will succeed in implementing a major state reform, will actually take place. As long as this fails, what you have achieved is the administrative reform under your leadership, the largest reform project in the administrative field in the history of the Second Republic. And you deserve our appreciation for that, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to say: Anyone who will have to take over and carry political responsibility in the future will ultimately be measured by your performance, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! And the latte is up. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank today's salary conclusion – I am very grateful to my two previous speakers Werner Kogler and Karl Schweitzer – for a little bit in a time of exploratory discussions, at a time when we read a few basic statements on this subject almost every second day in the media of the public service, of the state reform, of the officials. There is a reason for this, ladies and gentlemen: As one who comes from the economy in which the principle applies: The most important capital is our employees!, it hurts me when I get the impression, when I see the media coverage, that the officials are the classic sluggish hub, they are the ones to whom one accuses of office cape and sleeve protection mentality. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the right attitude towards the capital, which is also the most important capital in the public service, namely the quality of the employees in this field. As someone who comes from the economy, I would like to point out clearly the relationship between public service, public administration and the necessary strategies for securing and improving Austria's economic location with a view to Austria 2010. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say one thing: The experience of my long career is that the quality of an economic location is also highly determined by the quality of public administration. Economic location means jobs, income opportunities and social security. The quality of public administration, the quality of the education system and the quality of infrastructure also make a significant decision about the quality and attractiveness of an economic location. We should therefore be very careful, ladies and gentlemen, with lump-sum judgments and take the following experience from the economy: In the economy, the experience is as follows: You can only make successful reforms with those concerned and not with those affected. Change will cannot be decreed, will for change must be experienced together and jointly designed, ladies and gentlemen! This principle should also apply to all public service reforms. My experience is that there are hundreds of thousands of public servants in the public service who are quite willing to cooperate in reforms that often bother themselves daily about what absurd activities they have to carry out on the basis of our legal situation. If you read the newspapers, you'll probably find examples every day that are suitable to address the challenge to us: We need to change this legal situation in the next legislative period. Wherever it is about optimizing administrative processes, where it is a matter of avoiding double- and triple-tracks, where it is a matter of reducing unnecessary red tape, it is not a matter of reducing services, but rather of making life easier for our citizens – with fewer paper war, with fewer authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! I am still today – I say this quite openly; Fritz Neubauerwiss it – a bit proud that years ago I was allowed to participate in establishing a location partnership between the Chamber of Commerce and the Public Service Union. This area of public service and the Chamber of Commerce is very important for the country, I believe. Let me also say the following: If we have said about the Austrian People's Party in the course of the Alpbach process, we want to present a longer-term perspective, Austria 2010, and our three major strategic objectives of economic policy, which are there: first, stability in the state budget, second discharge of citizens and businesses and third investment in the future, we must also say that public service has an important role in all three areas, ladies and gentlemen! That should be my message today. My message should be that we should discuss everything we are discussing here, in the light of the fact that we also have a valuable asset in the public service, that we are discussing these reforms with those concerned, but that, if we have room for discharge of citizens and businesses, we are going to: Tax reform, and for investments to be made in the future, may well require an administration that is more cost-effective, more efficient and slimmer. Everything classified in the economy today as “Management of Change” is also necessary for public administration. The world is changing rapidly. There are constantly new changes in the working world, and these changes cannot pass by public service. We are invited to set the legal course in such a way that this partnership between public service and business – economic location means income opportunities and social security – is actually implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2699	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé has now come to speak. Speaking time: 7 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2717	Ladies and gentlemen! Several previous speakers have already pointed out the social component of this salary statement, namely that 30 € fixed amount has been agreed. I would like to tell you that we would have been liberals for strengthening this social component, that we wanted to place this salary at a fixed rate, because This would have been more just for the many federal servants who have a very low income. In the newspapers, one only reads about the high salaries of the section heads and possibly the ministerial councils, but there are thousands of officials who have a salary of 12 000 to 15,000, 16 000 S, no one speaks of it. In this area, it would have been particularly necessary to increase the coverage by means of a base amount disproportionately. Unfortunately, the union was opposed. Obviously, the trade union represents the interests of officials with greater merit, and that gives us much to think about. In reality, all of us need to ensure that low-income stakeholders receive equal reference increases and that high-income people do not get more. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also regret in this context that it has not succeeded in implementing its own law for the executives. Mrs Vice-Chancellor has made enormous efforts to remove the executive officers from the general official's schedule, because it is quite simply not possible to compare the service and work of a financial official or a general administrative official with that of an executive official who has enormous risks in his profession. But the union was opposed in this case too. I think there is an urgent need for rethinking. We need to motivate our officials. In my opinion, not only does a higher level of motivation bring. This is also necessary, but it is also necessary to motivate officials through appropriate reforms in their field. Everyone, including my previous speaker, the coalition negotiator and exploratory talk participants, really talks about the necessary reform steps in Austria. For decades, a state reform has been under discussion in Austria. That is to say, the project is not new, only is it constantly continuing to implement, namely, that the EIA cannot move its country leaders to withdraw from their power, and that the SPÖ must finally accept reform projects to the trade union federation, the Chamber of Workers. For example, we are experiencing the reform of the pension system, how the members of the Trade Union Confederation are stifling. Obviously, the trade union federation, the functionaries or the top functionaries have no perspective at all on how to deal with the challenges of modern times. There you go. You are a very valuable and important task in your ranks, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! For example, the Second President of the National Council of Fischer says that major steps are necessary in the reform of the state, and the smooth turning of some screws of our constitution is no longer sufficient. I give him the right, but say that it is also up to you from the Social Democratic Party to put pressure on it to ensure that this screwing on the necessary instruments is really effective, because otherwise nothing goes on again, just as it was in the past, except the time of freedom of government participation. Mr Deputies stupidly stressed the great merits of Mrs Vice-Chancellor, and, as the Freedom Party thinks about reform steps, the Vice-Chancellor has indeed embodied this throughout her term of office. We have taken important reform steps. The hard fight with the officials has been mentioned. We all remember: In the media, day- and night-long discussions have been reported. It was certainly a very hard fight that had to be fought there, and Mrs. Vice-Chancellor took up this struggle – for the good of a modern state, for the good of the Austrian. In our government responsibility, we have contributed to an administrative reform that improves the balance between citizens and state – in favour of citizens. We have also taken another step in depragmatization. In all There has been a Pragmatization stop, ladies and gentlemen, freely occupied ministries. All of this was very difficult to enforce. There have been commissions, own State Secretary for State Reform, but in reality nothing has changed, because these blocks of power within the ÖVP, within the SPÖ, have always been very strong. In the past there has been a gratifying process of thinking, namely: Mrs Gehrer originally said that there was no change at the national school councils. As early as 1993, our then state-owned party officer and current head of state Haider said that the district and state school councils should take over the countries. Then there followed an angry protest. In 2000, Dr. Riess-Passer said that the national school councils should be removed without replacement. The criticism of the Court of Auditors has also come to this effect. In June 2000, Ms Gehrer spoke against the abolition of the National School Councils. - Now, 17th. In January 2003, the Minister for Foreign Affairs called for the abolition of the National School Councils, meaning that this institution could be better, more effective. That is something that deserves attention, and this rethinking is also necessary, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. There is an urgent need to implement this state reform, but this includes courage, including the willingness to do away with power. I appeal in particular to the countries as well as to the Chamber of Labour and the Trade Union Confederation: This is essential so that Austria is a modern state, as other European countries have long realized it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2800	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Stoisits. I'll turn the clock off at 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2818	Dobar then, poštovane lady i gospodo! Dobro jutro, gospod predsednik! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Translate, please!]] Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Kogler, the previous speaker from my party, who made clear the position of the Green Group on this salary novel, has made it clear that the Greens will give their consent to the increase in salary for public servants in Austria, and has also expressed criticism that there is a lack of fundamental considerations. I would add that what we have experienced in the last two and a half years, since the start of the blue-black government, in connection with the human resources, with the working capacities of officials in Austria, is probably a unique situation. Under the title ‘Administrative reform’, ‘Administrative management’, a climate was partly created within the Austrian civil service, which, I believe, could best be defined by the word ‘total mbbing to officials’. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Excellent!]] The Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, who has a great deal of experience in what it is like to lead a place, knows how important it is to have officials in the house, to have the experience, to have the same positions for a long time, which through this experience have also acquired a knowledge that is of invaluable value for politics – now in the narrower sense – but especially for the Austrian population, for which the administration is there. But what I do from the individual departments and especially from those to whom I have a special close relationship – now through my work here, but also through my work earlier than public servants –, keyword: Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Cultural Affairs, keyword: Interior Ministry, listen, that, I must say, ridicules every description in dealing with service providers, speak boss or employer, and his employees. There was a ride in dealing with individuals and their personal environment and their personal destiny, and I can only say this: totally unresponsible – in detail, in personal! In general terms: If people with 55 or almost 60 years of age – the statutory retirement age for officials, as you know, at 65 – are pushed out of their positions, thus wasting their knowledge, their capacity, what does this mean for those for whom they do their work, namely for the Austrian population? People are being put on the streets from politically clearly transparent motives – they don't even bother to cover up or hide something. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the other hand, those who send the 55-year-old officials home for their will send signals to the public: Abolish the early pensions! It is immense what is happening in Austria in connection with early retirements, with people who have worked for 40 years since their 14. Year of life, and then on the basis of their physical constitution, they want to take their retirement in the truest sense of the word, because they have not prepared themselves in the spirit for 40 years, but from the years onwards. This is a contradiction, and I would like to see Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, not alone, but that the respective head of department, who all have a name and a face, Gehrer, Straster, Molterer, Schüsel, comment on what has been happening in the public service in recent months. I am interested in this as a citizen, as a Member and also as an official. – First part. Second part, my honours. Ladies and gentlemen: There has been something about public service in recent months, which is just a grotesque. The aim was to abolish a Court of Justice, namely the Vienna Jugendgerichtshof, which has become a model for dealing with youth crime in the world, up to Japan and the United States, out of complete arbitrariness, without any real factual justification. He's not here anymore, says Minister Böhmdorfer! – He did not succeed in implementing this because of legal provisions. There is still the Jugendgerichtshof Wien! There's him. Although it has been relocated spatially – I have always strongly criticized this resettlement action for material reasons, because it is precisely the network of judicial and judicial jurisdiction, it is now also the problems that have arisen – but the Jugendgerichtshof is still existing, but it has been since 1. Mr President, at the age of 65, the President of the Council has gone into well-deserved retirement. Mr Böhmdorfer, however, does not think of this – he has informed the public – as he has announced – to issue this void post of the President/President of the Jugendgerichtshof. Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you of the following: The President of the Constitutional Court also retired at the end of the year. His successor was already appointed by this government in October to preserve continuity in order not to cause any gaps in the Court's leadership. The Jugendgerichtshof, on the other hand, has been since 1. They're unleading. There is no – and this is my main argument that this is a damage to the case law – a worker, there is no judge or judge, who or she could also act in the case law. You need to know that the Jugendgerichtshof is not a unit where it is about hundreds of posts, but that it is a small, compact, powerful unit, where every labour force and every job is needed. But this is no longer the case because of the fact that there is not even an invitation to tender for the position of the President of the Jungengerichtshof, let alone a procedure when these posts are re-occupied. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The appointment of the President means that the case-law, in the administration, also carries out the special tasks which a President has there. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There are alternates who run the business, Mrs. Deputies! You should know that!]] The question of representation is completely unaffected. The President's deputy, the Vice-President, has been there before and there is now. There are vacations, there are situations that always require a representative. Now we are dealing with a position that is no longer in place, which negligently puts the continuity at risk. That is to announce the intention of Minister Böhmdorfer, another step in the destruction of a milestone in the judicial development of the last decades in Austria, because that is the Jugendgerichtshof Vienna. We will not tolerate that, nor will we allow it to happen. That is why I would ask you to join this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2917	The request by Mrs Mag. Stoisits concerning the invitation to tender of the President/President of the Jugendgerichtshof is sufficiently supported and is therefore part of the proceedings. Mr Spindelegger has now come to speak. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2939	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a typing error. I would ask the honourable Members of the House to accept this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I would like to briefly address some of the questions that have been explained today. Mrs Stoisits has tried to explain in her statement all the questions raised by the general administration. I don't trust that in the few minutes available to me now. I also believe that before the government negotiations begin, it will not make sense to outline the final lines. Many of the problems she mentioned are serious problems, and we will have to respond to them, of course. I would like to return to what is today the subject of the decision-making, namely the outcome of the negotiations between the Federal Government and the public service. I would like to begin by highlighting the difference between the negotiations there and what is happening in other European countries. I believe that the negotiations in Austria between the Confederation, represented by Mrs Vice-Chancellor and the Public Service Union, were very hard and, over many phases, were also carried out in the public in a dimension that was clear that everyone was consciously representing his position. But, unlike Germany, they were focused on the fact that there is a result. I believe that this determination – and we must recognise it today – and this sense of responsibility on both sides has enabled this conclusion to be achieved by 2.1 percent. This is a conclusion which represents a dimension for the employees of the public service, which they feel, but which, on the other hand, does not appear to be small for the federal government with € 205 million, but yet manageable. I would therefore like to thank both partners – both the Vice-Chancellor and the head of the Public Service Union – for their sense of responsibility, but also for their determination and consensus. I can also say on behalf of my group that these were really exemplary, result-oriented negotiations. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] I would like to make a second point, which has been criticised many times today, namely the amendments to the Civil Service Law. Ladies and gentlemen! We have in our government a system that regulates all these questions in detail. That's nothing new. When it comes to a certain position in the Ministry of the Interior, where everything is secreted, I'm looking for you: Take it as it is in the law and as it is meant! The purpose of this amendment is to provide a temporary limited function, which will also allow an executive official to move into such a leadership position. I think this is good and useful, because in the ministries we want to see not only officials of the general administration in management positions, but also executive officials, who, from practice, exercise such a leadership in the ministry. – That means that, and I think you can agree with it. Thirdly, I would like to refer to a point raised by Mrs Vice-Chancellor, namely the planned Austrian Convention. I have a different opinion from you, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor. I think it takes a broad majority in this House if you want to change something in the state. It also requires a broad consensus, and a broad consensus can only be achieved if everyone is ready for dialogue at a table. I therefore believe that the proposal made by Mr Khol, together with the President of the Federal Council, is that an Austrian Convention should be set up, in which all the questions - including legal issues - will be discussed and discussed by all parties. I think that if we want to change something in this direction, all the partners must sit at the table. That is why we welcome this, and I think it is a good start – think of the Europe Convention! – even if in Austria we are creating such a convention. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP and the Scheibner and Magistrates. Mainoni.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that today's legislative work, which we are to decide on, will come to a broad agreement. I think that this is also a good start for this legislative period. There were sufficient good negotiations on this, and there is a result that can be seen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3050	The amendment tabled by Dr Spindelegger, Mag. Schweitzer and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are negotiating. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3074	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As Mrs Stoisits and the Greens have tabled a motion for a resolution on the Jugendgerichtshof, I would like to make a brief comment on this. The Jugendgerichtshof consists of eleven judges at the national court level and five judges at the district court level, thus being practically our smallest court and having had a historical significance. In recent years, he has lost most of this with the increasing modernisation of youth jurisdiction. The transfer of the Jugendgerichtshof has been due – and still due to – to the fact that, in the area of the Jugendgerichtshof, illegal, illegal cells were created in the area of the Jugendgerichtshof. The President of the Jugendgerichtshof is responsible for this, which has also been included in the public debate and is well known. For this reason, it was necessary to make use of the fact that there were rooms in Vienna's Regional Court for Criminal Matters, which are now being used to allow the judges to be relocated there. With the judges, Mrs Stoisits, unlike your presentation, the whole so-called network has been relocated. Everyone there has the same facilities that they have so far available. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the Jugendgerichtshilfe are also relocated. The young people have the same job opportunities, they have even better training opportunities. Their storage is completely separated from the preservation of adults. [[Deputies Parnigoni and Reheis: Don't vote!]] - That's right! The fact that, of course, a youth, accompanied by a judicial guard, is being passed by an adult, is not an inadmissible procedure. Such an encounter is not inadmissible. This is physically inevitable in itself. That's the whole problem, and it's misrepresented by you. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] I would ask you to understand that this right resettlement measure is not being changed, that it will not go away. It would also be pointless to appoint a President now, as the common coalition will is to disband this Court of Justice as an organisational unit. Of course, I do not want to prejudicate my arbitrary successor as Minister of Justice on this issue. But it is an act of fairness to let the Jugendgerichtshof lead for the time being by its Vice-President. That is also true, and I ask for an understanding of it. This Green request does not make any sense. In my opinion, he is polemic and incorrect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3127	I call Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. I'd like to put the clock at 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3145	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Federal Minister! The House of Lords, you allow me very briefly to go into the statements made by my previous speaker, Mrs Stoisits, who here spoke of ‘the way in which human resources are handled’, which meant that there is a ‘total mbbing to officials’, and she has declared that ‘powered’, and has used expressions that I do not even want to repeat in her fullness. Officials are supposed to be on the streets against their will. Madam President, you have tried to represent a horror in this House. This is a perception that you may have gained very selectively, but which does not confirm to me. The fact is that the reduction of officials, as I mean, has been socially very acceptable and agreed. – These are my perceptions. I note that the Greens are obviously about maintaining the entire existing system, without the will to change, i.e. a rigidity. Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to implement the outcome of the negotiations between the Federal Government and the Public Service Trade Union. I should like to congratulate the Vice-Chancellor on his success in this form. There are at least 286,000 public servants affected. The decision we are taking today will have retroactive validity, i.e. with 1. January this year. It has already been mentioned that a base amount or an amount of at least €30 is intended for the persons involved in the lower income, for all persons below the reference limit of €1 765. This is particularly fair, as I mean, and it would have been quite possible for the liberals to extend this fixed amount to a larger number of people. In any case, the mentioned income stakeholders receive a higher amount or a higher share than 2.1 percent. The inflation rate for 2002 is still open, with – if I am correctly informed – a tax of 0.8 percent for 2002. The inflation rate is now in place, and there will be further talks on one-off payment in this respect. As far as the rate of inflation is concerned, it can be said that we are below the average of inflation in Europe. The European average is 2.2 percent. This is, as I believe, a new quality in the implementation of this pay scheme, just as there have been many new qualities over the past period of this reign of blue and black. However, these are reforms that are not completed, but require continuation. It has already been mentioned that in the course of the administrative reform, a savings of around 1 billion schilling could be achieved. However, it is necessary to continue these reforms. The state reform has already been addressed. An appeal was also made to the countries to show willingness to implement, to signal willingness and to address this state reform. In principle, however, a reform means changes, and that means that there is a basic need to show willingness to talk about how to get the best possible solutions for the country and its citizens through a serious discussion. It is little good to argue with keywords and to defy sensible measures, namely here with a disillusionment of the political competitors or the government parties. A cementing makes little sense in this case. It has already been addressed by my previous speakers to set up an Austrian Convention. But this does little if you don't signal a willingness to talk, but instead get stuck with fixed points. Let me give an example – this is addressed to the Socialist Group of this House –: If you always talk about the SPÖ that an essential prerequisite for your government assignment is, for example, the abolition of the study fee, then you should also tell the citizens the truth. Anyone who has watched your website in the election campaign could find out what you are doing in the sign. They defy our measures, namely the introduction of the study fee, which has had a positive effect, but at the same time do not tell the population – but it was to be read on the website that you quickly removed again – that you are in favour of abolishing the child allowance for students! Everyone can calculate that this is a multiple of the study fees. [[Contradict of Mr Binder and Mr Heinisch-Hosek.]] – This was your future platform, Mrs Collaborative, as you seem to be advocating it. The names of the participants of this future platform were also evident on the Internet. The important axis between public administration and the economy has already been discussed. Ladies and gentlemen! A reorganisation, a restructuring of public administration, a reduction in red tape is a necessity for the economy of this country, in order to ensure, on the one hand, the existing but also, on the other hand, the creation of new jobs in order to meet the requirements of the present and the future in international competition!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3231	Mr Jakob Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3252	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on Mr Kogler's contribution. – Yes, it’s actually interesting what can be changed if someone is called to a leadership function that comes from the practice of executive service. Ladies and gentlemen! We complain about bureaucracy, about the problems of law. There may be a need to make some changes here. We should be glad if there is a chance that experienced people from the practice will also get positions in leadership functions to also bring in this practice. Ladies and gentlemen! If a lawyer is called to such a head office, that is no problem. That's what I'm asking myself: What are you doing? There's a need for change! I agree, Mr Kogler, with a Federal Minister to create an efficient structure, even of course. This is ultimately his job, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Strasser has fulfilled this task. Remarkable – but nobody speaks of it – is also the following: 56 management functions were re-occupied, 55 in agreement, and only one is under public criticism, although this no longer costs, although nothing changes in remuneration. The President of the Council of Ministers of the The legal path is open to the feeling of being affected. An appeal is possible. I am excited about the reasons for this. I believe it is important that a Federal Minister, like a head of the company, should occupy the management levels in such a way that these people have confidence that he is sure that there is an efficient structure for the implementation of new structures and reforms – no more and no less, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I agree – and this is to be said clearly – that Mrs Vice-Chancellor has successfully implemented reforms. For this, she is to be thanked, but also the responsible staff representative, Mr Neugebauer. But both will be missing in the future, namely the successful visa fish. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the location determines the position. Actually, it is surprising how the public servants who do the great work that many tasks always handle – in view of the law machine, the law flood in Austria. I think that we should also think in our own house about making the laws more readable and easier, and perhaps be more reticent in the decision-making process. To tell the citizen on the one hand, a red tape reduction is necessary, and to demand a reduction of the flood of law, but when it comes to you yourself, to shout: There must be a law here, it won't work, ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Partik-Pablé! I regret that you spoke of the heads of state as ‘princes of the country’. I think Mr Schweitzer said there was a match against the federal states. – I don’t think of any such formulations. We should try, together with the federal states and the national leaders, to bring about reasonable regulations! Let me give you an example: Upper Austria has a new salary system. There were serious changes in agreement with the staff representative: All national officials are now in a scheme, there is no differentiation in officials, VB, employees or workers. This ensures equal pay for equal work. In the future, there will be evaluations of posts not only for officials but also for contract staff. The allowances have been reduced: There is only one salary allowance and the additional charges such as overtime and danger allowance – nothing else, ladies and gentlemen! It is also decisive that there are significantly flatter pay curves, higher entry fees and a corresponding reduction in final pay at the end of the career. Ladies and gentlemen! Together with the staff representatives, Landeshauptmann Deputy Hiesl has implemented a new salary reform, a salary system that might also be transferable to the federal level. The same is true of pension reform, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps you should take the positive examples from the federal states and take the best of them instead of polemizing against the federal states or calling on the municipalities and the federal states, they would have so many, Zig thousands of officials, employees and so on. You don't have to teach the communities how to save – they're used to it from time to time, ladies and gentlemen! This has been clarified here once. Finally, let me say the following: It was pointed out by Mrs. Vice-Chancellor that the public service was the State's business card. Therefore, it is also necessary to have a reasonable salary. This salary novel is in line with this requirement, and this business card of the Austrian State, namely the public service, is more than real! Thank you all for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3339	As the last speaker, Mrs Dr. Moser is currently speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3358	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, and, in particular, my new colleagues. You do not know that it is essential to make further clarifications on two points: First: Minister Böhmdorfer, at the Jugendgerichtshof, it is not about the question of overcrowding, but about the continuation of a proven institution in criminal execution. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If it's about overcrowding, then you'd have to create new space anyway. Their prison transfers again result in prisoners coming back from Josefstadt to the Rüdengasse. This is, as it were, an exchange of overcrowding. In this respect, your argumentation is in the back and in the front. I also do not know to what extent it is true that there is an interest in the building complex in the Rüdengasse by a certain Mr. Third President of the National Council, Prinzhorn. This is to be read in the media and should be clarified once. The second clarification concerns Rule 5 of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. This Article 5 is more or less the legitimisation and legalisation of a personal rochade carried out in their favour, particularly by the liberals. It was coloured in the blue sections. – Two examples – I take them from my own work area –: Mr. Federal Minister Böhmdorfer, you have sent a proven section leader who is excellent in consumer questions with the “Action 55” to the desert. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Don't fix us!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't let me there...!]] Now, under Article 5, you need to redraft the Civil Service Law, the agendas of this Section III, and you now have, as the head of the section responsible for consumer protection, a gentleman who may be familiar with budget issues and constructions, but not in the consumer field. The second example: Minister Chief! They simply dissolved the section IX to obtain a section head for a former liberal council, thus moving the field of “food safety” to the agendas of Section VII, into the field of health economics. This does not fit together in the back and in the front, and we have no contact in our ministry, especially in view of the problem that exists with regard to the European Union. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, above all from the Federal Farmers' Federation, which you are taking part in a decisive meeting today as a new Member of Parliament, please bear in mind what you are voting for today: for something that the old government, Black and Blue, has completely dealt with in a personal way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3426	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3448	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In view of this persistent refusal of reality, ladies and gentlemen, I have to speak once again – very briefly, I promise. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser, who refers to a written document kept up-to-date by her]] Each national court is necessarily a judicial body. This also applies to the Jugendgerichtshof. The cells of the Jugendgerichtshof have only eight square meters in size. After the Anti-Folter Convention, there shall not be two prisoners in it. This is the case because we have modernized the privileges of youth criminal law for young adults. Please take note at last! That is why we have had to look for adequate, modern, modern accommodation for young people and young adults. We have found these in the Josefstadt judicial centre in the so-called "Trakt E" and "Takt D" and have been rebuilt accordingly. There, 160 youths and young adults are now housed separately from adults in penitentiary execution. Now we finally have human rights-compliant accommodations. Why is this knowledge not worthy of your willingness to grant this fact as well? - That's one. As far as the involvement of the judges of the Jugendgerichtshof is concerned, this is, in my view, more appropriate. We have very few cases of division in Vienna, there is much more in the rest of the federal territory. I could now also mention many other things to you in this respect, but I do not want to take your time too much. I would like to stress once again: The whole network is relocated, the Jugendgerichtshilfe even into the building itself, so it is now closer to the youth jurisdiction than it has ever been. There is really no legitimate, objective criticism on this whole action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3502	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law in 3 of its supplements. Hiezu has asked Mr Pendl for a separate vote on Rule 5 of the draft law. Mr Spindelegger, Mr Mag. Schweitzer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment which concerns the correction of a typing error. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, taking account of the above amendment. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 5 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. I shall now vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in 3 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Spindelegger, Mr Schweitzer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I am looking for a sign of this to those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of it. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues concerning the invitation to tender of the President/President of the Jugendgerichtshof. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. 2. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment 10/A by Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek, Dr. Andreas Khol, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farmers' Social Insurance Act (Social Insurance Amendment Act 2003 – SVÄG 2003) (4 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3587	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Donaauer was the first speaker to speak. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3612	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Discussions on the formation of a new federal government are mainly about strengthening and securing what we have achieved, namely all that we have built and created in recent years and decades, and also for the future. In order to achieve these major and important objectives, we need a clear orientation, we need courage and in many areas of politics, the economy and also our lives a new access. Much of what is valuable to us is to question critically, to rethink and reorganise a lot. It is simply about ensuring stability, strengthening the economic location, because only then will we be able to expect good employment tomorrow and only then will the state's earnings remain in order. Only in this way can we keep the prosperity acquired and make the future positive. In the field of public finances. It must be clear to everyone that we cannot spend more on a permanent basis than the economy finally achieves. I can't do that privately either, no one will. Our goal is: We don't want to make any new debts as well as we can. We have enough work to do from the past. It is, as has already been heard from several contributions today, about public administration, about a so-called state reform. The Federal Constitution of 1920 is now no longer understandable and efficient in all areas because of the many novels. There must be a discussion that needs a lot of culture, but also a lot of expertise. The question is what the division of tasks between the local authorities will be in the future. It is also about security policy, civil security and the military security of our country. There is no doubt that there is a difference in opinion. If you look at world policy today, you need to know that there is no room for manoeuvre. There's a need for seriousness. It is not about persuading or preventing one or another, no, it is about security for all of us and in every situation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also about preparing for developments and processes that we may not even know – something like this has already happened in this world. It is also a question of education policy, of meeting the new requirements in the working world, of the need to remain competitive, and of equal opportunities. This discussion, of course, also concerns social and health matters. It is especially important that we refer to fundamental changes. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Do we realize that life expectancy has increased by seven years since 1970, since 1990 by another two years? It could be said that this is a good news, but it requires action. It is a question of better training, as a result of which, due to a later entry into work, it is about a reduction in working time. We need to see this very clearly: Since 1970, we have lost seven years of working time through better training and later entry into work as well as through the previous transfer to retirement age. It is also about extending the supply time. That is what answers are asked! If you want to deal with this, I can recommend a statistics from the main association. I refer to the year 1970 and 2001 for a comparison: In 1970 the retirement of women aged 61 and the care period was 15 years. In 2001, women were admitted to the pension at 57 years of age, and the care period was 26 years. In 1970, men entered the pension at 62 years of age, and the care period was 13 years. Today, admission is at 58.7 years, and the supply time is 20 years. It is simply necessary that we make clear decisions in this regard in order to ensure credibility as well. It's about keeping the generation contract. Many young people ask us how we think at all, and if we don't think about them, about those who will have to pay the contributions and who are getting less and less on the basis of demographic development, and about the relationship between them and those to whom we have to secure the performance – even in five years, also in ten years. I think that we need to make it clear that the state system alone will not be sufficient in the long run. We will need a dual system, i.e. a private provision where, of course, security needs to be offered. And it's also about finding new ways. We have done this in the last legislative period, namely by creating employee care, an exemplary social policy project for the whole of Europe, for all our competitors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That was the work of this government, and that was a special achievement of the last legislative period. In recent years, we have been discussing current pension reforms. I remember that the Social Ministers on the government bank, wherever they came from, said: This is a very decisive reform, and it is at human discretion the last ten or 15 years. This was the communication of the year 1995, the communication of the year 1997 and the communication of the year 2000. It was already important reforms, they were only too far-reaching and too far-reaching. This is why further measures are important, such as increasing the statutory retirement age. Don't say: People are falling into the social crisis! – It is simply about increasing the minimum age for early retirement pension for long periods of insurance in order to keep the whole business financially. Of course, it is also a matter of creating accompanying measures in the labour market, of ensuring education and training. I think that's very important. In this context, please remember that people often want to stay in their professional lives! We must offer them the opportunity to do so. In the long run, we must not give up on this resource of experience, of cooperation, of wisdom of life! – These are Questions to be considered in the context of the next pension reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is about creating a uniform system with the same calculation periods, possibly also with the focus on a life-to-life settlement period. I am also concerned that the concept of disability should be the same for all occupational groups. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot explain to anyone that there are also different provisions for access to disability or incapacity pension in the different professional groups. I'm sick! If someone is ill, you have to understand this and you have to offer him the opportunity to address the social system – in this case the pension scheme. – These are fundamental orientations that we have to take. We all know that the European Union is making great demands for the Germans and is disciplining them and giving the French a lot about their overall budget policy. The polite communication has been made to us that we finally have to go about adapting our pension system to European standards. We're far ahead. I can give that to everyone, but I can ask the question whether we can keep it that way. The clear answer is: No, no, no, Rather, we need to change these things with an eye, with courage and with commitment, but also with expertise. For this we are all invited – no matter where we come from, and no matter where we stand. That's our common task! Today there is a legislative proposal to raise the compensatory allowance rate, namely those for married couples, to 7.3 percent. It is therefore the one and a half times of the single position. We have thus achieved that the poverty threshold has exceeded that we also give these people a decent basic provision. In this context, I would also like to remind you that, as a result, the accounting rules for fictitious outlays, which affects all systems, have to be rethinked. It is a question of giving the 227,000 compensation recipients – 8 percent of pensioners in Austria – a new basis, especially those 37 000 couples who are cross-border with all systems of compensation. I think that this proposal for a law fully corresponds to social symmetry and justice, is financeable – we need about €25 million for it – that it might even strengthen the credibility of the system and perhaps also make the predictability seem somewhat more objective.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3740	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Lap. The speaking time will be adjusted to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3758	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My previous speaker spoke about, among other things, the major challenges facing the next federal government. Astoundingly and somehow significant, I believe that he mentioned the situation currently in the labour market only in a few by-catches and devoted only a few sentences to unemployment and the fight against unemployment. It is, after all, the most important thing in a society of a Western industrial nation, as Austria is one that ensures employment. The EU Commission also points out that employment-saving measures are an essential tool for combating poverty. We Socialists see the following as the top goal: To combat unemployment, to create jobs, to create jobs. Today we have an application to increase the compensation rate, from € 900 to € 965 for couples. This is an important measure to combat poverty. With regard to the fight against poverty, Austria is very good in European terms. We have about 13 percent of the population affected by poverty, which is still too many. The ranking in the European Union is as follows: The share ranges from 8 per cent, as in Denmark, to 23 per cent in Portugal. So Austria is well standing, and the social measures that exist in our country are very good. By receiving transfers, the risk of poverty can be reduced by half. Transfer services are an important contribution to reducing the risk of poverty. To the heritage of the blue-black federal government, which has worked in recent years, which has been rather sleepy in the area of the social system – now I would like to put it down more discreetly – and has run social reduction on many issues, for example: Who will receive a compensation allowance, who will receive this increase, this guideline? – Those people who were in employment receiving a pension. What, though, about those women who are unable to show self-employed old age insurance who are without their own pension, because they are not in the profession, and then face the age of poverty? An important measure, on the other hand, is the creation of an active employment policy for women. In this context too, the former Federal Government was very sparse, and it is now waiting for the Colognes to “pension reform”, “reform of the health system”. - All these are mere threats! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, in the area of social security systems, as well as in those of state finances, we need to focus on adapting, to make sure that the measures are effective, that they help those people who need it, that the State can afford the expenditure in this regard, and that the people who challenge the budgetary budget of that state are able to do so. These questions need to be resolved. In this context, there is a very large accusation from the European Commission that there is no comprehensive analysis of concrete challenges and no evaluation of measures. So there has been no review of the way in which women can be integrated into the labour market in order to have an independent pension scheme. I know that, on the part of the ÖVP and the FPÖ, there is always the money for children, but I think that for women it is more like a walk in the other direction. Children's money has often been discussed here, and in my opinion it is not an activity towards better employment policy for women in our country. The European Commission's criticism that there is no far-reaching analysis and no evaluation of measures must also be related in the field of disability billions in recent years. There were 32 000 disabled people in our country in December 2000, while there were already 34 000 in December 2002. I know that this is only a small segment with regard to over 300 000 unemployed people in our country, and it is clear that it is essential and important to look at them in general and to ensure that action is taken wherever this is necessary, but that must not be forgotten. You, Mr Donabauer, spoke of the need to secure the economic location. In my opinion, however, the economic location of a country can only be secured if jobs are created if the productivity of the economy increases – in no way if jobs are reduced. There was also criticism by the Court of Auditors of the evaluation of measures in relation to the disabled billions. Criticism was that what happened to the funds was not seen and how many people were then created. We have rising numbers of unemployed people, including disabled people, and I believe it is a great challenge for the Federal Government to consider what can be done in the “European Year of Disabled People 2003” for the employment of disabled people. There are no proposals and considerations either, it is always only threatened with the great sheath with which cuts are carried out. We are not available for this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The EU Commission's assessment is that, from the Federal Government, which has been active in recent years, it is based, so to speak, on the fact that the existing measures are simply taken, but that there is no way of thinking about how to implement longer-term structural reforms, that trends and causes are not carefully looked at. There are therefore little clear objectives and steps in the area of poverty reduction. An essential requirement for the next Federal Government will be to end this drowsiness, to transform the legacy of the blue-black federal government, which is still active now, so that social interests gain a very high priority again, and to ensure that they are also financially viable and especially in favour of people. Ladies and gentlemen! The importance of social interests is an essential basis for how to live in a state. One of the reasons why the quality of life in Austria is so excellent is the fact that the social interests are at the heart of our policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also think it is important that the discussions on these issues, which concern all Austrians, are conducted seriously so that they are held in such a way that one listens to the negotiating partners and does not always have one's own shear in the pants bag and takes it out again and again. It is essential and important to reach a consensus that works for the Austrians. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen: We Social Democrats are ready to do this!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3862	Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. He too has 10 minutes of speaking time to stop. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3880	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Lap of the Social Democratic Party meant that this federal government was sloppy and sloppy in social policy. – Mrs Lap, the matter we are dealing with today, the 2003 Social Security Amendment Act, is based on the National Action Plan on the control of poverty and social exclusion. The European Commission prepared the data on the risk of poverty in 1998. In 1998 a completely different government was in office, and my knowledge of the past 30 years before 1998, a Social Democratic Social Minister has managed the business in this area in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In 1998, the poverty risk threshold for a single-person budget of 124 000 S per year and for a two-person budget of 186,000 S per year, i.e. one and a half times. This federal government is now responding. So far, the compensatory allowance rate was €630.92 for single person, in the future it will be €643.54 and that for married couples will be increased by a multiple of the amount to which the guide rate for single person is increased. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] To avoid and prevent the risk of poverty of married couples is the meaning and purpose of these new laws. The guide rate for married couples is 1. January 2003 raised to the one and a half times that of the single and thus amounted to € 946.60. In addition, there is also an increase due to the increase in consumer prices, so that the guide rate is now €965,53. Ladies and gentlemen! This means – and this is very important – that this rate will be increased by 7.3 percent compared with 2002. I think this is an essential step towards averting the risk of poverty. Mr Donabauer said that we need to make a significant contribution to ensuring the pension system in Austria. I believe that every single person sitting here in the House is aware of it and will do his best to ensure that pensions are guaranteed in Austria. I believe that in recent years, under the Blau-Schwarz government, the pension adjustments – including the last pension adjustment, with 1. January 2003 – were correct by providing base amounts. High pensions have been increased by base amounts. The income limit is 1 900 € per month, resulting in a pension increase of 38 €. And anyone who receives a higher pension gets only 38 € per month of pension increase. I believe it is important that the low pensions be increased, because the cost of living, especially those of daily life, is the same for all people. It is an essential step that has been taken by the Minister of Social Affairs. We have always taken action to increase pensions, especially in the upper part of the area with base amounts. It is also assumed that the current pension system is more unfair. I feel that way. The current Austrian pension system is unfair: On the one hand, there are pensioners who have a calculation period of 15 years, on the other hand, there is a system according to which the pension is paid after the last reference, on the other hand, there are pensioners who receive their pension after 36,5 years, like the railways, and who have higher pension contributions, on the other hand, there are lower pension contributions – i.e. a whole bunch of different provisions. We have always advocated the harmonisation of the various pension systems, the long-term insurance of pensions in particular, and the harmonisation of the various pension systems in Austria. There are various ways of doing this. The Pension Reform Commission has developed various things. I believe that we must tackle the harmonisation of the various pension systems more quickly than planned. Pension privileges include forested. I have to tell you, someone who is ASVG insured, has a worker or an employee, 45 years of insurance on the bumple, and is 60 years old, will not understand it if one tells him to work even longer if, in contrast, there are beneficiaries, such as in the public service, as in the Austrian Federal Railways or at the post, which today between 50 and 60. Life-years can go into retirement, just because it comes cheaper for the state, which, however, I doubt, especially in many areas where people should be kept in work longer, but should be kept healthy in work. There we should begin by saying that the rule-pension age is reached there. And then it will also be understood by those who already have 45 years of insurance on the bumple when the retirement age rises. Someone who has 45 years of insurance and the 60. Is he supposed to work up to 65 years? – No one will understand that, no worker in the private sector! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt, however, that there is a need for action in the direction of older people, no matter in which areas, to work healthy longer. This is the essential step for the future, we must work on it – everyone should work on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3955	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3974	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Donabauer took the opportunity to present generally something like the Austrian People's Party's idea of a pension reform. Now, of course, I have to use them to say something about that. First of all, a comment on what we are deciding today: After the low pensions for compensation recipients had already been the subject of discussions not only at European level but also in the poverty chapter of the Austrian social report, it was clear that there was a need for adaptation rather earlier than later – and it has become relatively late – because these groups actually have to be regarded as poor and have been below the poverty threshold for years – with full knowledge of the politicians. It is therefore quite welcome that this has been adapted. But let me now address the pension system in general and the further necessary adjustments. Mr Donabauer! They talked about the increased life expectancy. – That is true, we all look forward to this, and we can also be proud that politics has also made a modest contribution to the fact that health policy, economic policy in Austria, a highly developed country, and, of course, social policy has done so. But life expectancy is not the same for all. I remember that study that I have already quoted a few times and is the only one in which the different life expectancy of certain professional groups has been studied in Austria. And precisely because this study has come to very depressing results, it has never been discussed. This study dates back to the 1960s, and it shows, for example, that welders, then in the 1960s, had an average life expectancy of 62 to 63 years. In the meantime the sweaters are getting older, and the working conditions are better. But imagine the following: There were – and I suspect she still exists – groups of professionals who had a lower life expectancy. The sweaters had a life expectancy in the 1960s, where on average they had to pay contributions to the pension system – like everyone else – but on average they had no pension to expect from it. I think it is already depressing that we are discussing a pension reform here without having to do with the appropriate foundations – how has life expectancy developed in different areas? – make it the basis of our discussion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's take a look at this! In Switzerland, which also does not have the most developed social system, there are at least studies that show that there is still a very different life expectancy – that is, Switzerland, and I think Austria too – depending on what work and activities one does. I think it would be equally important to take this into account when deciding on a pension system and the redesign of a pension system. for example, the fact that some aged 14 or 15 years – at the age of 15 years – but earlier it was 14 – have to enter the working life and work up to 60, so that they get an early retirement pension, while others still have the happiness – I am not speaking of a privilege here – to get in and work hard later. Work, regardless of whether manual or spiritual, means, of course, use for all, even if it hopefully also brings joy to many. But it makes a difference whether you have to work 30 years and pay contributions or whether you have to work 45 or 50 years and pay contributions. And it makes a difference in what activity this happens. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is still to be mentioned in the requirements for a pension system is the fact that – and this is not to be underestimated – pension incomes, Mr Donabauer, are unfortunately even more extreme in their diversity than the incomes of employment. I have here the wage tax statistics from the year 2000 ahead of me. – It also contains inaccuracies because, unfortunately, we do not have very good data, especially in the problem areas which I mentioned earlier. There are no data and no investigations at all. – Two million pensioners – persons – are listed in these wage tax statistics. Of these two million pensioners, the top part, one percent – about 20,000 people – is given, with around 30 billion schilling or 2.2 billion € around 7.4 percent of the total pension. One percent receives 7.4 percent of the total amount of pension, while the lowest part – I can't dissociate it – is 500 000 people, i.e. those persons with a pension income up to 10 000 S gross, with 25 billion schilling – less – received only 6.1 percent of the total pension amount. 500 000 people receive less than 20 000! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] I'm not making any accusations. I'm gonna notice, I'm gonna be fine. In order to redesign a pension system, there is also a need for social justice. This is a requirement that we send Greens to a pension system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Donabauer! I heard you speak differently under other circumstances. You have today praised the advantages and the need for the extension of the second or third pillar – dual pension provision, you said –. Does it not also concern you that the second or third pillar, when considering the last years, has come to a much greater degree of uncertainty – even to losses – than ever in a state pension system – and whether it is still so problematic? I'll give you an example. In the issue of last week’s “Falter” – I noticed this because I already found it impressive – the well-known pension expert Professor Marin told you that three years ago he paid €70 000 for a private pension provision in a fairly safe fund. By now, € 70 000 had become € 43 000 or € 47 000. The loss was therefore considerable. And he said on this occasion that a state pension system could not be made so uncertain at all when it was the private pension scheme. If we want to be honest with people in Austria the problems that exist in a public pension system in terms of social justice and its financialability, then not with the effect, Mr Donabauer, that we are conscious of it in a much uncertain pension provision – even with state support! ................................................................................................................................................. It is the good right of everyone and everyone to also operate private pension provision. But I remind you – and this is the conclusion of my discussion – that all of us MEPs are paying in to a pension fund here. Take a look at the pension income of pension funds for the year 2001, how much of your deposits were left in your pension fund in 2001! Nothing! No grins! You know that! If we honestly discuss this and put things openly on the table, then we must say: Yes, we have problems in various forms in pension systems, namely in terms of self-employed pension schemes for women and in terms of social justice, also in terms of a later retirement age. Yes! But we have to put things so openly on the table that we also see the problems. We must not draw the wrong conclusions: People, close a private pension provision in addition to the public, and then the problem is solved! Mr Donabauer! Don't do that! This is what you know and, hopefully, we all know when we start discussing the problems of public pensions honestly.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4092	Mrs Lentsch! Are you so generous and leaving your colleagues? Mr Donabauer referred to an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4116	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Oellinger has assumed that I would drive people into an insecure provision. - That's not true. I said – and I insist – that I advocate a dual system – with a basic supply from the state system and with a dual precautionary element with optimum safety. You can read this in the Stenographical Protocol. With optimum certainty! As a result, this your presentation is incorrect and has nothing to do with my presentation, which I have now correctly presented to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4150	Mrs Lentsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4168	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! With this proposal, we propose increasing the guide rate for the compensation of married couples – we have heard this more often today – by a total of 7.3 percent to now €965,53. There has been no such increase in the last ten years. This increase will also greatly strengthen the purchasing power of these couples. In the case of single people, the guidelines are not increased, as we already have a very high international level in Austria with 643.54 €. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This increase will not only please the 37,000 persons concerned, it will also show that this federal government is taking its social responsibility very seriously and that the slogan “social cold by this federal government, which was certainly only electoral rhetoric, is totally empty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the meantime, of course, it is also clear that we are doing a lot for those who cannot help themselves and who need our help. But we have something against injustice, and we have something against “social pedalers. ” That is why the Austrians can also be absolutely sure: Under our Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel the forthcoming reforms to the pension will be very fair and very social. More: We are not actually seeking a pension reform, but we are seeking a labour market reform. We do not want the Austrians to receive less pension, but we simply want the Austrians to work longer, as long as it is legally anchored. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we must ensure that these people also keep their jobs. That is clear, that is fully aware of all of us. We will urgently need this workforce by the year 2010. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, the action “60 plus” provided by Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel also provides for a 10 percent reduction in the additional wage costs for this age group. Further action will and will of course need to be followed. Reforms are necessary in order to ensure our pension system sustainable. Finally, if not a state pension, our children should receive at least a state pension. The longer we postpone these reforms, the more painful these cuts will become. Everyone should be aware of this. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that this request has received the approval of all four parties in the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4240	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4259	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lapp has let go of a true thunderstorm in allegations of the black and blue Federal Government in the social field. “Sleeping” was the Federal Government, it showed a lack of commitment in the social field. – This is all paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen, because you have said in no time that Austria is good in the social field, and you have also supported this with an EU study. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You should finally stop these constant debt allocations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not possible that you have forgotten what debt this black and blue government was burdened with. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lapp]] If we had continued to spend the money as you did in the socialist era, we would now have received the blue letter from the EU next to France and Germany. [[Call to the liberals: That's how it looks!]] You have to take that into account! It is ridiculous to always demand, without at some point presenting a proposal for cover. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (in the direction of Abg. May. Lapp) This is a “social democrat”!]] One more thing, Mrs Lapp! They complain of the lack of age care for women. I'll tell you something: I also miss the SPÖ's spirit of reform in this area and have missed it for years. In 1986, I myself was the head of a liberal working group on pension reform. At that time, I had already proposed to Social Minister Dallinger to introduce the three-pillar model with a period of twenty years. 1986! We already had this pension model, a modern pension model, which would have almost expired, and the Austrians would no longer have to tremble about their pensions, as they now have to do on the basis of this social democratic heritage, Mrs Lapp. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You announce activities. You say you're going to change sleepiness and so on. – So I fear your activities, Mrs Lapp, and the disabled people in Austria too. Under the title “Improvement of the care allowance”, you want to take the right of the disabled to take care of the care allowance which they are legally entitled to. [[Abg. May. That's incredible! That's really incredible!]] Mrs Bures! Under the complicated title “Integrated overall care reform” you want to take the free power over the care money to the disabled cold-blooded. This is not only my view, but it has already established a platform against your attacks, Madam Members. They want, for example, a labour and social security scheme for the caregivers. – Well, nice, but not at the expense of the care money! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The care allowance was created at the time to improve the situation for the disabled, and the disabled and their family members or their caregivers should determine how to facilitate and improve their lives. All the disabled, the disabled and the cetera need your measures to: You want to intervene in this, not, Mrs Lapp. I really want to tell you this very clearly. But this constant desire to access the care money through social democracy is already history. [[Abg. May. Worm: Who introduced it?]] – Sagittarius You don't have your head! Please read the old press services! – The former Vienna Deputy Mayor Mayr, the current Financial City Councillor Rieder – do you know what they called for? – Instead of the care allowance for the disabled, you have only required benefits in kind and a care check – i.e. not the care allowance for the disabled. That is what your social democratic friends have always called for, and you are on the same line! I can remember that there has also been a debate in Parliament on this. I think Mrs Reitsamer was a social spokesperson at the time. This is where you wanted to create women's jobs with the money of the disabled by saying that the disabled have to buy jobs with their care allowance. Create jobs for women – I am really in favour – but not at the expense of the disabled, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What you're doing is really a turning point in the wrong direction. I believe that the disabled should continue to have the care allowance, which they have taken over twenty years, available, and not that social-democratic interventions in the care allowance should be promoted.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4389	Mrs Mandak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4408	Mr President. High house! Shortly before an opinion on the care allowance or the idea that stands in the room to replace it with performance checks. This also comes from our side a very clear no! We really ask you to bear in mind that this is a demise of all those who are entitled to benefit. You can't deal with people like that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are clear – and this is what we call for – that the care money must be reformed, both as regards the amount, so that the benefits to be provided can actually be paid, as well as the area of the disease images that can be covered with them. As a keyword, I would like to mention here the concept of age dementia. It is currently a huge problem in the care of elderly people that the burden associated with the disease image of the age dementia is not recovered from the care allowance. There is an urgent need for action here. However, the actual point of the present request is that the compensation rates for married couples should be increased in order to prevent the risk of poverty, as stated in the grounds for the request. That is, the people concerned should not be in danger of getting poor. - Good. If you define poverty in such a way that the people concerned have an apartment to eat and dress, then you can actually survive two times with this 965 €. However, being poor means not being able to participate most of the social and cultural life. That means no friend can't invite a friend to dinner. That is, not being able to go to the cinema or even to the football court, and that means not even being able to go to the coffee shop to drink a “little brown ” so you can read the newspapers you can’t buy because they’re too expensive. These too are very clear signs of poverty, and it must be clear to us that these problems of poverty with amounts like those we are dealing with today cannot be solved. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Posch.]] Austria is one of the richest countries in the world, even though the budget discussion of recent years has gone to let us forget it. It's a fact: It's there for everyone in Austria. It is a question of redistribution, and we have the political responsibility to take action to ensure that this redistribution takes place to a better degree than before. I think that this seven-percent increase is no reason to be proud here and say: We're increasing by seven percent, because the sums we're talking about here are still embarrassing. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Posch.]] If you look at this carefully, you can see that this €965 is broken down in €643 for the husband who has the pension claim and €322 for his wife who has no entitlement to pension. Ladies and gentlemen – especially from ÖVP and FPÖ! In the Vorarlberger Landtag, I was very much attacked by your party friends when I repeatedly demanded the right of women to work and thus, among other things, their financial independence. I have always been assured of the importance of the housewife. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's right, too!]] – Yes, but with money, it seems that recognition ceases, because you, Mrs. Partik-Pablé, are worth all 320 € for these housewives who have done what you always praise and acknowledge, namely to raise their children, to take care of her husband’s well-being and the household. You will agree with me when I say that today's adjustment of the compensation guidelines is only a small emergency measure. I personally agree with her – I can assure you – with tooth gnawing. I expect everyone in this Parliament to agree that we urgently need a basic pension for everyone, not least because every woman – whether she was working or a housewife – has a right to decent protection in old age. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is an urgent task of the next government, no matter what it will look like, to ensure that an amendment is made here. The Federal Chancellor said yesterday: If you want to negotiate with us, you can't set any conditions, but I'll tell you: Here is one of the conditions that must be laid down, in my opinion, by everyone here, if they want to make responsible policies, namely the introduction of an old-age pension for each woman, whether or not she was employed or not. – This is a condition that no coalition can and will not pass in the future, no matter how it is composed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4474	All who are at the speaker’s desk for the first time receive an “Applause supplement”. Mrs Turkovic-Wendl has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4496	Thank you for that. Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It pushes me to put some personal words at the beginning of my speech, a few words about something that means a lot to me. Before, I would say that almost half a century ago, as a young sportswoman, I had the opportunity to do something for Austria, through sporting successes. It was a time when Austria – as a child, as a youth, I was 15 years old – had little value abroad. Toni Sailer's victories were something you felt: You look back at Austria. As much as you as a sportsman is focused on your own performance: Will it go well today and the next day?, so much so you feel this attention from abroad. That's something that'll accompany me all my life: that's Austria. is recognized abroad and that we can be proud of our people here, domestically, of our achievements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That's why it's nice for me to go today with a new law novel that brings something positive. I do not want to repeat the figures which have been expressed several times by my previous speakers, but the positive remains. € 965,53 is the new compensatory allowance rate for married couples. 37,000 people will benefit from it, which means additional costs of € 25 million. The victory has many fathers – we know it; everyone wants to hang on it – but the defeat is then an orphan child. After claiming to be the author of this legislative initiative in recent times, I have to clarify who really is the initiator of this social-politically important new regulation, namely Stefan Knafl, the Bundesobmann of the Austrian Senior Confederation. He made this proposal with Federal Minister Herbert Haupt and Secretary of State Alfred Finz before the discussions on the 2002 pension adjustment. The Bureau of the Austrian Seniors Council approved this proposal, but it did not yet reach parliamentary decision-making in 2002. During the negotiations on the 2003 pension adjustment between the government and the Bundesobmann Knafl and the chairman of the Austrian Senior Ring Dr. Paul Tremmel, agreement was reached on the introduction of this legislative initiative at the first meeting of the newly elected National Council, and we advise on these today and vote today. The Austrian People's Party as a Family Party is concerned with supporting and implementing these measures. I would like to thank all those who have contributed positively, according to ÖVP and FPÖ as applicants and especially those who are willing to accept this request. Ladies and gentlemen! Now it's going to be personal again. – I was asked by Chancellor Dr. Schüssel whether I would like to represent the concerns of the seniors in Parliament for the ÖVP. For ten years I have been involved in this subject in my television activity. And something really hurts me deep in the soul: the image of the seniors. The tremendous change that is taking place in this ever-growing group of our society is noticeable in all areas of our lives. If you wish the elderly a well-deserved retirement 30 years ago, this has already meant that you have recognized and honoured their achievements, their work, but it was also an absolute removal into the standstill, for example according to the motto: That was it for you – be grateful, be happy, and please keep your mouth shut! If there are 60 or 65-year-olds today, in which one feels much more that a new, exciting life for them begins than that their active life ends, then we should also use this new seniority for our society, for our country. Through medical knowledge and social progress, they have gained many years, and they are also a “born generation. ” I believe – and I know it from me; I am in the middle of it – that we will need these young old people for activities, for problems that will be associated with the changes, for example for the care of the elderly. The financing of our health system will also depend on our own initiative, as each of us grows old and older. I am in this process – I have already said it – and I want to achieve that the seniors of Austria not only have the reputation to have done decisive things in the past, but also that they and their achievements cannot be forgotten in the present and future. I will work to establish this new self-understanding of the elderly, and I am looking forward to this challenge. In conclusion, I would like to comment on the reform of the pension adjustment and to express the position of the Austrian Pensions Confederation, which is aimed at eliminating the clear formulation of net pension adjustment is required. With the Senior Confederation, I am looking for a rewording that is understandable to every citizen and that guarantees value assurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4577	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4598	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it has been said most of this bill, to amend the Social Security Act. I should therefore like to sum up briefly the following. It has also been carried out a lot on pensions as a whole, and I may remind you that the increase in the compensatory allowance rate not only benefits those currently affected, but in total more people: Instead of 30 000 people, it is 37 000 because of the increase in origin. Since the different pension systems have been addressed here, I would like to point out that the statement may be true in the upper areas, but not at all in the lower incomes. If one looks at how many are affected by this Directive, it is noted that of these 37,000 persons concerned 25 000 belong to the ASVG, 3 000 to the GSVG and 9 000 to the BSVG. If you put this into the right relationship, you can see that even the small pensions are by no means significantly above the ASVG-pensions and are well balanced in the lower areas. Thus, by more than 23 percent more people now benefit from this change in the compensatory allowance rate. I can add – and this is also on behalf of my Minister, who apologises for his absence, because today and tomorrow the meeting of the Social Ministers in Greece is taking place, which is about to start the ‘Year of the Disabled’: It has always been a question of free movement policy to increase compensation allowances above average. When you think back – it has already been mentioned –: The last increase took place in 1994. There has been no increase in the years 1994 to 2000! In other words, it has always been a matter of giving help to people who are difficult to cope with because of their circumstances of life. But perhaps I may add: You know that the compensation allowance is actually only the difference between the actual income and the guideline. Here, I think, an initiative will be taken in the near future to increase the guideline, which would lead to a further improvement of the system. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4642	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4660	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to remind you in this discussion, because it is often forgotten that there is also a risk of poverty for farmers and self-employed people. However, the risk of poverty for the self-employed and the risk of poverty for the farmers is a matter that is simply being wiped away. Being self-employed does not mean that you can look forward to a quiet evening of life, does not yet mean that you can be worry free, and does not yet mean that you cannot be at risk of poverty. The figures show quite clearly: We have heard that almost 20,000 self-employed and 53 000 farmers are compensation recipients. The situation is particularly tragic among the self-employed and rural couples. Once again, it is women who have worked for their lives who are affected by it. I would like to remind you that women with self-employed and farmers only have the opportunity to be fully insured since 1969. This means that all those who were not insured before 1969 are often in the situation of not having acquired any pension entitlement. One could buy retirement periods with hundreds of thousands of Schilling, but often the economic situation was such that one could not do this either. It is estimated that now about 3,000 independent couples and 10,000 farmed couples are compensaters. I also say: A free social minister had to come for the first time for nine years – for the first time for nine years! – an out-of-tour increase in this compensatory allowance rate! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There you have to ask yourself: Where were the various women's ministers, where were the various Social Democratic Social Ministers in the period since 1994, who had made sure that there was an out-of-tour compensation allowance? I would also like to ask the whole of the Socialist Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats about various women's initiatives. Why was this never done more than you were in the government than You asked the Minister of Social Affairs when you were responsible for the Ministry of Women? Once again, I am delighted that our Social Minister Herbert Haupt has so much taken on the fight against poverty. I would just like to remind you that the child's allowance, with the family hospice, with the free ride for boarding school students, with the free ride for apprentices, with which disabled billions have been made many contributions to the fight against poverty. In conclusion: We liberals will continue to be the guarantee that this policy, the social policy of the Federal Minister Herbert Haupt, will be adhered to. Herbert Haupt has also given way to poverty reduction, and we will continue to do so!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4720	In the word, no one has been reported for this. That is why I am closing the debate. We come to the votes. To this end, I kindly ask you to take the places. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 4 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent at second reading to this motion for a sign. The proposal was adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the proposal at third reading express this. . I note that the proposal was also adopted unanimously at third reading. That's what we've got on the 2nd. Agenda item. 3rd. Point Choice of committees
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4770	We're coming to 3. That is a point of order, namely the election of committees. I have a joint proposal from all four political groups on the subject: The National Council may, by decision, use the following committees: Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, Committee on Foreign Affairs, Building Committee, Family Committee, Financial Committee, Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Health Committee, Equal treatment committee, Industrial Committee, Committee on Internal Affairs, Justice Committee, Cultural Committee, National Defence Committee, Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Committee on Human Rights, Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, The Court of Auditors, Committee on Sports, Committee on the Environment, Public Health Information Committee, Constitutional Committee, Transport Committee, Economic and Social Committee and Committee on Science and Research. This is the list of committees proposed jointly by all political groups. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the establishment of these committees approve this by a sign of approval. . The proposal to set up these committees was adopted unanimously. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall also determine the number of members or alternate members of each Committee. The members and substitutes will then be placed on the parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of members. Members of their members shall be distributed in accordance with the principles laid down in section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The clubs shall then make the members of the committee and alternate members of the committee responsible for them known to the President, and shall be deemed to be elected by this Declaration. Following consultation at the Presidential Conference, the following members and substitute members were proposed by common accord for the Committees mentioned: The Committee of the Rules of Procedure shall consist of 13 members and alternate members each. Of these, six members and substitute members each belong to the Austrian People's Party, five members and substitute members each to the Social Democratic Party, one member and one replacement member to the Free and the Greens. For the other committees mentioned above, 26 members and replacement members are proposed each. Thus, each of the twelve members and replacement members of the ÖVP, each of ten members and replacement members, are the SPÖ, two members and two replacement members are the liberals and the Greens. A decision by the National Council is also necessary. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to these proposed figures for the members and substitutes of the various committees. – I notice: This is unanimously decided by the National Council. I can now ask the clubs to make known in writing the names of the members or substitute members they have proposed. These are considered to be chosen and are also mentioned in the Stenographic Protocol. [[At the time of printing, not all lists were available; see Annex.]] ==References====External links== Agenda item. 4. Point First reading: Request by Dr Josef Cap, Members of Parliament, concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Rules of Procedure 1975) (3/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4934	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The first speaker, Mr Cap, will be given the floor. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4958	Mr President. High house! It has long accompanied us with a very fundamental discussion on the issue of the rights of minority groups here in the House, as to how they can optimally carry out their control tasks in the course of parliamentary activity. Regardless of the fact that even our group in the past had different views on this issue in stages – I am thinking above all of the time when the coalition of the Social Democrats with the ÖVP was still in place, and of the many discussions that took place when a new Rules of Procedure were adopted here in the House – and also, regardless of how the famous talks between the parties to the formation of a new government might take place, I think, just now, the right time to find themselves in principle on this issue in order to strengthen the rights of the minority groups. That is why we have tabled a request that will in future provide the opportunity for a committee of inquiry not only to be set up by a majority decision, but already by a request from one third of the Members; and I add that, if a majority of the government in this House were to occur, the minority would probably have to make an amendment to the quota, because otherwise it would not strengthen the minority groups. In any event, it would be necessary to be removed from the requirement of a majority decision in principle. Furthermore, this request includes the fact that only one committee of inquiry is running on the basis of a request and that there cannot be two at the same time and that there is also a time limit, namely that within 18 months of the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry, the activity will be reported in the plenary session. These are clear rules. It cannot be blamed for the fact that, as is usually said by the majority groups or government groups, the minority groups are overreacted to the destructive instruments or the “criminalisation instruments” – under quotation marks. These provisions lay down a clear order and establish a parliamentary balance, a balance between government fractions and opposition, which, I believe, is really strengthening the rights of minority groups. On this occasion I would like to say – because today we are again bringing in two additional requests which are of importance in the context of the reform of parliamentary work – that it would be worthwhile to have a principle discussion on the question of the public here. In other words, it is about the possibility that, like in other European Parliaments, we could establish that there could be a permanent transmission of the debates here in plenary on a television channel. It is important to consider making the work in the committees more transparent by enabling the media to attend committee meetings and report on our activities in the committees. I believe that this would certainly make work in the constituencies easier, because how often is the question asked: What to do You're right now? Where are you working right now? What are your priorities? There is a link here with the extent to which voters have access to the information on the activities of their elected representatives. It would facilitate our work if journalism would have more opportunities to improve its information work, of course linked to a critical reflection. It is not meant that this should be a so-called court report. There may be some people who have this wish, but we are concerned that there is more public here to facilitate Members' work to a very crucial extent. The same is true of Question Time. One could also think about how to improve the quality of Question Time. This would be a very essential aspect in this overall package, in addition to this amendment with regard to the possibility of a committee of inquiry. The current practice is: A written request is made during this Question Time, which is usually not answered in writing by the Member of the Government concerned. Then you ask an oral supplementary question, and then the same game starts again from the front. I think it would be possible to make this question-time more vivid what my knowledge is like in some other countries, namely by being able to ask questions without this process of preparation and to answer them more spontaneously, by also involving day-to-day events, including, of course, a The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council a proposal for a Council Directive All of this would create a more lively Parliament and make Parliament's work closer to the people. No one is served by it when it comes to a distance, among other things because of the lack of information and the lack of public opinion, to a distance between the electorate and those who have been elected. To do something here can only be in our interest, in the sense of strengthening parliamentaryism. And this would in the broadest sense also mean strengthening the opposition groups, because they also have more fair access – in the division it is unfortunately a bit dependent on the majority, but nevertheless – because of course, government groups and government parties with the presence in a government, with the filling out of government functions have quite different ways of creating public for their political goals. It is, of course, much more difficult for opposition groups to be able to speak accordingly. I think that this would benefit all parties in a certain sense, but especially parliamentarianism as a whole, so that Parliament would be closer to people and also greater identification with the activities of Members. Then it is only the respective contents of the Members' policy that they agree with the electorate's views, but that will be decided on the election day, which is a completely different question. Whether we go even further and think about a reform of the right to vote is another issue that we can certainly negotiate and discuss on another occasion. In conclusion: Our aim is to strengthen the rights of minority groups and to enable the setting up of committees of inquiry under the rules outlined by me. For example, the question of the procurement of these warplanes would be a very concrete approach to testing this new regime, after which a report would be submitted no later than 18 months. But there were other opportunities too. Because the representatives of the FPÖ are smiling just as if government work had gone on – You'll know that better, maybe it'll be like this anyway –: Remember your opposition time, where you used to pick different tones! I really expect you to support our initiative right now. Maybe you're in opposition again, remember! At some point the time will come, at least the voters will ensure that you do not fall below the statistical threshold. At any rate, I believe that there could be a majority here to strengthen the minority rights of the opposition parties, and the time would be ripe for that. I'm advocating for the support.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5041	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. He's got the floor. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5069	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, as a People's Party, we are of course prepared to discuss all the problems and questions that Mr Cap has addressed here. Of course, it is useful and necessary to talk about all the parliamentary procedures to what extent we can make them more understandable and citizen. This must always be a concern of all parliamentary parties. That's our concern, too. We certainly do not conclude such a discussion during the next legislative period. But we also need to stick to the facts and facts. In principle, there has been the possibility for decades to set up research committees. For more than 13 years, discussions in the investigative committee have even been open to the media, and all surveys are conducted in the presence of the public and the media. In 1997 an own Rules of Procedure for Investigation Committees was installed in agreement with the Greens and SPÖs, and this Rules of Procedure has proved to be very successful in the study committee on ‘Euroteam’ over the last two years, and has demonstrated its practicality and effectiveness, this test has been excellent. When I listened to Mr Cap today, I could see that the SPÖ had obviously made a change in its argumentation here, because in the 1990s the SPÖ fought against the establishment of investigation committees as minority law and also prevented it. At the time, the Socialists in the government were, were the strongest party, held government responsibility and – possibly for this reason – clearly rejected the establishment of investigation committees as minority law. In the last legislative period, the S & D opposition Party was and have suddenly discovered its love for minority rights and now want to give minorities this right to set up an investigation committee. Now, after this election, they are the second strongest party and bring this request back. Ladies and gentlemen! I note that this line is not credible and convincing for me, because, as a government party, I reject minority rights, but as a minority party, it is not just convincing, but it smells a bit like party-political opportunism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Not the basic position, but apparently the respective party political position, your location determines this line. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What does the ÖVP want?]] In fact, we do not consider this to be objective or convincing in relation to the fundamental questions of parliamentarianism and the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: And what does ÖVP want now?]] As far as the Committee of Inquiry is concerned, we see no reason to change our position, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We remain in line, which we have also represented over the last ten years, with good arguments, because a minority right for committee of inquiry is far from known in the European Parliaments. The only exception is the Federal Republic of Germany, but even the alleged minority right in the German Bundestag is only theoretical, because there the investigation orders and the setting up of the investigation committees are usually determined by common agreement. In addition, German Constitutional Law is aware of the non-institutional nature of the institution in Austrian law against the responsible institutions of the Parliament. And if you already look at the German example, you probably have to discuss this question too. By the way, the Austrian Parliament is quite a leader in the provision of minority rights in Europe. For example, the German Bundestag has no possibility of carrying out special audits of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! The "Euroteam" investigation committee has shown that the new Rules of Procedure have proved to be successful and that minority rights are taken very seriously. The lawyer was present all the time and gave objective and party-independent information on issues of dispute, in matters where the parties did not agree, and interpreted the Rules of Procedure accordingly. Even if the majority – sometimes also us – did not fit, it took note of this. Government parties have even agreed to opposition requests for additional budget resources in the budget. Moreover, of course, every party was granted the same question time regardless of its strength. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, shortcomings and shortcomings in the Committee of Inquiry were not due to business or to lack of minority rights, but rather – I felt so – because of the lack of political morality of some members of the committee, because of the lack of personal responsibility and attitude, which is due to one's task and role as a member of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. I ask you, Mr Cap: How would you judge your judge's behaviour? – He has been sent by your party to the investigative committee, although he was a legal representative for a company that was part of the Euroteam investigation object, namely for the “bfi Vienna Euroteam”. He has even employed the managing director of this company, which is in fact being charged with the next time, as a parliamentary employee. Ladies and gentlemen! It is incomprehensible that Mr Jarolim did not mention his personal close relationship with the central character of this case in the committee with a word, but apparently tried to hide it until it was discovered in the committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He has at no time felt a political inconsistency between his role as an investigative committee member and his role as a person personally involved in this case. This is a case of lack of political morality, ladies and gentlemen. The SPÖ Justice Officer should never have been nominated in this Investigation Committee. That is why the lack did not exist with regard to institutional problems! But the same applies unfortunately also to the Green Member Karl Ollinger. The investigative committee has revealed that Lukas Wurz is a founder and still a member of the board of directors of the violent, left-wing “TATblatt”. He was also scrutinised by the Committee of Inquiry. Lukas Wurz is also an employee of the Green Club. Wurz is the social representative in the Green Club. Anger is also a major and important employee and confidant of the Oellinger Member. Of course, due to political partiality, Parliamentary Oillinger should have had the consequence and the Committee of Inquiry for Incompatibility – at least in this case! – have to leave. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: On the matter!]] But he has not done so and has shown that some MEPs will only apply political morality and high political standards if they are not themselves affected by it. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Theme Missing!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Only if these Party-politically motivated attitudes and attitudes are changed can the objectivity and credibility of the investigative committees be improved. That is what we think on this issue is a very important task, which we should also address during the next legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5192	The next item is the report by Mr Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5210	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The public sector and, above all, the top organs are seen very often. It is also true, however, that sometimes the same behavior, the same simple scheme is applied as in the private sector. The attitude of the parliamentary groups to the right of minorities to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry is certainly marked by the question of whether one sees itself as a potential examiner or a primary examiner. I know from the long time my party's government responsibility – Mr Kukacka has rightly reminded us of the attitude we have taken, just as he has brought wrong things here today, which are not part of this debate and which, in fact, only underscores that he sometimes sees things too small than that he recognizes the size of projects – that from the government's point of view, applications for committee of inquiry are not always seen primarily as a glaring light of democracy, but mostly as political interference, as an inadmissible mood, as a blocking and disability of government's work. But I also know from my party's opposition time that sometimes these have even been the reasons why such requests have been made. In the majority of cases, however, it was not. In the majority of cases, it was the concern that something was not well, it was the concern that something was heard in light. Ladies and gentlemen! We too have sometimes taken a different attitude in the past, but we have learned from our own mistakes. Mr Kukacka! We should all learn – both from the mistakes of others and from the mistakes we made ourselves. We are today confessing to the minority right to set up investigation committees, and we are doing so at a time when we are not influenced by the existence we have here, on which we do not know whether we will soon be in the government or continue to be on the opposition bank. At the same time, we also acknowledge the rules that will ensure that there is no abuse of this minority right, that there is no committee of inquiry, which is already halting the work of ministries or ministers by the mere effort of time. The right to set up such committees, the right to demand them and enforce them, must also be granted an opposition! In one point, our request will certainly be still to be discussed and changed. In one point, for example, he could not be democratic enough in a black and red coalition, namely as regards the number of applicants. If “a third” remains and there is black-red, then the opposition would not have a third, and then this would certainly not be a fair process. Especially when a majority of governments are very large and perhaps even a constitutional majority, opposition rights and control rights are particularly important. In these cases, there should be precautions to preserve the right, and there is also the willingness to amend our request in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! National parliamentarism is currently experiencing – and we have to admit this openly – no high flowering. More and more things are being decided globally and not nationally. We have rightly transferred many things to the European Union. Much has gone to the EU Council and to the European Parliament. However, there was far too little migration to the European Parliament. In addition, Parliaments have also lost importance in their role as government partners – not because governments do not want to act in partnership, but because the state level has also become weaker. However, this has not only been done by unification processes and international institutions, but by the new power of the corporations, the companies, the funds, of shareholder groups, whose partners are no longer parliaments, whether national, regional or international, in dealing with critical issues, but also of NGOs that express their concerns to the public, contrary to those groups. But not only in Austria, but also everywhere in Europe and beyond, Parliamentaryism must find itself only in its new role in this time of agreement and in this time of globalisation. There is the need to find new international and regional forms of cooperation, exchange of views between Parliaments, to further develop parliamentary diplomacy, to strengthen the involvement of citizens in closing alliances with NGOs at national level. The fact that parliamentary rights are being extended in every country is also a point that is necessary. This must happen even if it is laborious and time-consuming. As often in life, this does not happen with a big throw, but only as a sum of so-called little things. In Austria, there are these little things, and these are areas in which Parliamentaryism has been strongly diluted in recent years. We should do the following, ladies and gentlemen: There should be no more radical intervention into the right of assessment by setting the shortest time limits for the review, and of course there should be no more circumvention of the right of review. Of course, there should also be all rights to a government group, but it should use it very sparingly. There should be no excessive use of opposition rights by government groups, such as requests for special sessions, urgent requests, applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry et cetera, because in Austria it is just as in all democracies, where the root of parliamentarism in the 19th century. ==References== In any case, there is a great deal of rights for the members of the government and for the ministers also exist in Parliament, such as speech reports, speaking time et cetera. In any event, the government already has a bonus in the parliamentary movement from the outset, so that it is necessary to compensate for this by not using its parliamentary rights in such a way as to exclude opposition rights. We should agree that committees will be convened if there are legislative proposals, even if they are only requests, and not only if they are government templates, as has sometimes happened. We should no longer allow the treatment of applications for legislation to be permanently postponed and therefore opposition applications cannot even be dealt with – they can be rejected anyway. We should not allow the public to be excluded from expert hearings in committees. We should be for public committee meetings. In addition, where Parliament's work has been reduced by the transfer of agendas to the EU, we should be careful not to take things away from the plenary because it is essential to force an end to the committee or not to hold EU debates here in plenary, but only in the main committee itself. We should also consider that we are no longer refusing to charge information. Ladies and gentlemen! The government itself should contribute to the possibility of controlling its work. Questions should be answered properly and not superficially, as has been the case very often in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen! There are many things where we could improve things in our own field if we just wanted to. But the majority in this House must want to do so, and above all the government group is required. She must want to be here and ready for it. But the willingness must be borne by all. My group is ready to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5302	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5320	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that Mr Arbitrator is now here – I am assuming that I hope that this is not only his personal opinion, but also the opinion of the majority of his group – a little bit of the picture you could gain when you listened very closely to the Clubobmann Cap – what we all did here of course – and especially when you read the request as he is here. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe – and here I give all my previous speakers the right to do so – that, of course, it is important and necessary to review the rights of parliamentarians within Parliament, but also towards the Federal Government, always for their efficiency and their feasibility and, if it is possible, to continue to develop permanently. But this should be done from an objective point of view as far as possible and not from the point of view: What is best for me and my own group? If the necessary number has been set for the decision to set up a committee of inquiry with a third of the Members, I must say: This makes me suspect that, at least in this area, a little bit of the idea “What is the use of my group?” has been put to the fore and not the consideration “What benefits the minority, what benefits a possible opposition here in the Austrian Parliament?” I see these proposals, including the Greens' request, as an incentive to work intensively on the development of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and rights. I believe that it will be more valuable for many other things to discuss here in Parliament, for example on the preparation of the agenda. It would, I believe, be exciting, to be able to hold real policy debates at a prominent time here in Parliament much more often than before on current issues. In many other parliaments, it is the exciting times, the exciting events and moments when Parliament is discussing current internal political events, but also foreign policy events, that form an opinion and that it can take decisions. Of course, it is not only the question to be considered: What can Parliament, what does the Rules of Procedure say? How do Members benefit from their rights? This is probably also a little to be addressed to the self-understanding of Members. Of course, it is always to be asked, especially in sensitive matters, such as research committees: How can abuse be prevented by such sensitive institutions or parliamentary instruments? But I believe that we should go beyond that: that, and this is already true here, not only should we undergo the national Council's Rules of Procedure in the narrow sense of evaluation and further development, but we are also required to discuss, look at and adapt to the new circumstances of Austria's entire constitutional structure. The following questions should be considered: What competences have we given to the European Union? How do we view ourselves as a legislator here? How do we see ourselves in the involvement of the “legislation” – under quotations – in the European Union? What is the interaction between federal, regional and local authorities? How can we address problems and possibly resolve them as far as the abuse of a two-thirds majority here in Parliament is concerned? This is something the Constitutional Court has already assembled. You know this has happened over many years. We have often criticized this. Sometimes a little self-criticism was heard among those who did so at the time. We know that our constitutional structure is not based on the fact that a government in Parliament has a two-thirds majority. With this two-thirds majority, any control authority of the Constitutional Court can de facto be eliminated or at least greatly reduced. These, too, are things that are discussed. Of course, Mr Cap, we can always think about the right to vote. But we should also look at the self-interests, the interests of our own political forces and the political groups and discuss them on an objective, general point of view. I do not believe that all the ideas that have been put in here are to be measured by this standard when it comes to introducing a majority voting right here in Austria, so that the large political groups may increase as much as possible, even if they do not correspond to the will of voters, and small groups are much less proportional here in Parliament. If we find ourselves discussing all these points objectively, offensively, honestly, dynamically, then this would certainly be not only in the sense of parliamentarism, but also in the Republic of Austria, and it would perhaps be unique if such things were to be treated independently of ideological and party-political flaws. This was difficult in the past, but one should never give up hope of improvement.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5383	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler. Speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5402	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated colleague Schweitzer – Sorry: Mr Scheibner. I've had problems with the Clubobmann question. I can get in there. I would like to confine myself to the questions of the upgrading of parliamentarianism, because in the narrower sense it is then again about the committee of inquiry. I would also like to say in the direction of SPÖ: Everyone is allowed to fail sometime. Mr Kukacka, I do not understand why you suddenly believe that, with the position of the current majority group, you have the wisdom, so to speak, to get on the journey, because that is not art as you have put it. Everyone's allowed to be broken! - Let's get in touch with it. Upgrading Parliamentaryism: The question of the public of the plenary session and the question of the permanent public of the committees, on the other hand, I felt very important. We would in the Presidential we would spare ourselves the definition of many peculiar time schemes, which we then have to decide on, which are often due to the rise of television at 1 p.m. Inverted form: There are also many reasonable reasons that voters can constantly watch the drift here if you want it formulated in this way. There is no objection to this, which should be brought on the journey. At least so important, however, is the question of the public of committees. We have already made a number of proposals to simply reverse the principle. In principle, the committees should be public. Of course, if there are special reasons that either confidentiality or non-publicity – that is not always the same – it is decided, but in principle the discussions are public and have public and journalists access. This would clearly improve the control functions, which are also performed in the committees, but at least in the relevant committee, namely in the Court of Auditors and the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. Now I come to Mr Cap's suggestion. I also think that we should either abolish or improve Question Time in the form we are now holding it. Interestingly, Question Time has always been transmitted on television, as if it were a constitutional provision. It is really strange, as the television viewer is suggested that this is an oral question. In fact, they must be delivered in full sufficient time, and the Minister knows what he has to say. The possible gag is whether the additional question can be designed more or less original or creatively – then it is usually more pleased with the Minister; You know that, Mr Scheibner. But we should improve the other part as quickly as possible. It would also have made sense to conduct current and then relatively spontaneous debates, limited to this hour – these should not last forever – here. We could take all of this into this package. There is no point in negotiating the Cap motions on the one hand and our group on the other, which we are going to introduce to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the other, on the other. Now I'm coming to the Examining Committee. There is no longer much to add to the explanatory statement except to an argument put forward by Mr Kukacka and informed President Khol of the APA on the 15th of this month, namely that he refers to the Federal Republic of Germany with the argument that only there would be something similar to a minority law in relation to the establishment of an investigation committee, and that there is something like an organ complaint in the German Basic Law. That's right, Article 93 norms that there. What's that about? – It is about the fact that institutions of the Republic, therefore officials of Parliament, i.e. committee chairmen – this would be the case here – or even the presidents of the National Council, on their part, are still subject to an evaluation body. In our constitution this would be the Constitutional Court. Yes, if Mr Khol thinks that this is useful and necessary in the context, then you can talk about it. It's not supposed to fail. Mr Kukacka, however, that was the only argument left that we did not have. Yes, then let's look at this together. That makes sense. Why should there not be any provision which exempts the President from it, for example constantly determining whether a committee chairman has acted correctly or incorrectly – it cannot intervene anyway – and which provides for the Constitutional Court of Justice, in more serious cases, to be found in the form of a finding; no longer, because the Constitutional Court cannot, too, cancel the parliamentary procedure in retrospect. But if that is the only reason why we should not anchor the setting up of investigation committees as minority law, then we will talk about it, which is quite gone. I am looking forward to the negotiations on this subject in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I'm sure it won't fail. There you stand in front of us in front of open doors and, as I suppose, also at the SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Kukacka's already weak!]] Last point: Mr Kukacka, if you are talking about the need to preserve fundamental rights, I must resist this: This must also be the case if the establishment of a committee of inquiry is to date a majority. Should not the fundamental legal situation apply? - Of course! In this context, it is also a bit strange, not to say, to include colleagues Ollinger here in the debate as someone who would not have acted correctly in the course of the Euroteam investigation committee. I therefore think this is at least inconvenient, because you know that this committee of inquiry, without Mr Öllinger and his research work, is not at all at all... – Yes, if it is incompatible that the detectors are already sitting in the committee themselves, then I really can't help you. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Incorruptible!]] Then again it is clear what your majority is expected to do here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In fact, you have proved that you have driven a committee of inquiry, which does not happen to carry the title ‘Euroteam’, with your majority in the committee elsewhere than was the original subject-matter of the investigation. That was the problem! And now you want to make yourself here and fear the minority. Look, you don't abuse your majority! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: How true! How true!]] It would have failed a lot. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Then again, without these sermons, we could better understand what really serves to enhance parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5482	Mr Kogler, you can stay close to the speaker's desk, because this debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 3/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. 5. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Werner Kogler, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the National Council's Rules of Procedure (15/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5518	We shall come to the next item on the agenda. We are going into the debate. The founder is Mr Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5543	Mr President. I can now actually keep my remarks short and take the opportunity to point out a difference, which makes it different from the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kogler, which we are now discussing. The SPÖ's proposal aims to ensure that this minority quorum is exactly one third of the Members. On the other hand, in our view, it is similar to other provisions relating to minority rights on control issues that we grant to each group in the house. This, of course, needs a limitation to stop abuse, which is perfectly logical. That is why our request also refers to the fact that a second request on this subject, which would then be the subject of this proposal for a Rules of Procedure, is inadmissible as long as the first one has not been dealt with. So simplified: As long as the investigation committee is not terminated, a second request may not be made after this passage. – This self-restriction, which makes sense, is a clear proof that the opposition is not intended to make the whole thing superfluous. I can add that the SPÖ also has this passage in its application. The only difference that remains now is the question: May it be a third of the Members or may it be a political group? But, Mr Cap, you yourself pointed out earlier – if any abuse of the bars is proposed anyway, it is really not a problem to make it home to a strong political group, whether it claims this right once or not. Mr Kukacka! In any case, it is a bad advice to anyone who wants a committee of inquiry if he does not bring anything together there. But you have to deal with this problem again.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5579	I would like to thank Mr Kogler for the justification of the motion for a resolution 15/A. There is no mention of words. Therefore, I accept this amendment 15/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for preliminary consultation. 6. Point First reading: Proposal by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic, colleagues concerning a Federal Law on the Protection of Animals (Federal Animal Protection Act – TSCHG) (12/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5617	We're coming to 6. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The first applicant came to speak, and this is Mrs Dr. Petrovic. Maximum speaking time: 10 minutes, voluntary time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5642	Mr President. High house! The debate on the improvement of the animal welfare standards in Austria is now taking place for many years now by the National Council, although there is hardly any jurisdiction at federal level in the area of animal law, animal welfare. There are several areas of criminal law concerning animal testing, where there are federal standards, but in the case of “normal animal protection” – under quotation marks – that is, in the handling of farm animals, in the treatment of pets, there is no federal competence so far. This has not only been massively criticized by the Austrian animal welfare movement for a long time, but it is also often criticized by the European Union with sharp words. Austria, especially in the field of farm farming, has had to face severe criticism from the EU, and it is still such that I feel that it is being taken lightly. Now, more than five years ago, there was a popular desire for animal protection in Austria, a popular desire that had an amazingly high acclaim, but with the ever since in this high house, I must say, has really been mistreated. There was a lot of meetings – I can't tell you how many meetings there were in the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee – in which nothing actually went on in the matter. And it is true that on this question the only and only ÖVP has always blocked. A few days before the last National Council election, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany stopped, he announced that the ÖVP was now also for a federal animal welfare law. We have heard this message. I thought personally: A long overdue decision! – What has been done since then, however, makes me doubt again how serious the intentions are. There is now a written request from the Greens, which has been submitted. It is actually an application which is a coordinated work of the Austrian animal welfare movement. We have more or less taken over the service of submitting this request here in Parliament. In my opinion, it is a request with a great deal of attention. There were quite voices in the animal welfare movement that could have imagined even more, such as the anchoring of subjective rights for animals. I personally also believe that the development will go in this direction. But it has been elected by means of this proposal, one which I believe is very good. And it really depends on the standards of content, which are now to be discussed. There is a request from the ÖVP, which is now a mere constitutional correction: It is intended to allow for the adoption of federal standards in this matter. This does not say anything in the matter at all, because, as we all know, the standards of content as regards the level of animal welfare are very, very different, the rules, in particular as regards farm animal husbandry. We see that the countries where there is little mass animal husbandry – this is the case in the far west, in Vorarlberg, Tyrol, but this is of course also the case in the state capital Vienna – are rather strict standards. You can do it, too. Where the large livestock farms are, the A few farms, which unfortunately have to be referred to as animal factories, have been based on a bad reality. And this is a condition that is no longer tolerable. It is therefore of no use to change only constitutional competences, but we need to talk about these contents. Now there is a proposal from the ÖVP for holding a survey on the table – I say late, but at least once. However, already from this proposal, I must say that I now lack the belief in how far one really wants to make a new, modern law that meets EU standards and the requirements of the animal welfare movement. Because it was usually with such surveys use that you put yourself together in advance and say who should speak, who has something to do with the matter and who we must necessarily take into account. Here it was actually a requirement that came from you, and I think it would be a bad start to the project of a federal unity, and indeed good animal welfare law, if we did not try in advance to establish a sensible program for such an survey. That was probably also to make the opposition and on this question necessarily the Austrian animal welfare movement come to mind. My appeal: Start You do not take this debate with a new affront, but take the matter seriously now and make a parliamentary survey that deserves the name Animal Protection too!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5702	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. The clock is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5720	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Before that, I would like to make a clear commitment to comprehensive animal protection. This comprehensive animal welfare, as I believe, is based in Austria on a truly broad social consensus. However, I also say that this broad social consensus must also be based on consensus that those who take over tasks in the interests of society will receive support in carrying out these tasks. We already have high animal welfare standards, we have an exemplary level across Europe. We have pursued a very ambitious animal welfare policy at national level, and we have a consistent development of animal welfare in Austria based on the Article-15a agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, But of course this high level of animal protection also requires accompanying measures for those who have to comply with this standard. The question of the competitiveness of Austrian agriculture needs to be ensured. Animal welfare standards are used today – we know – as quality and selection criteria for the purchase of food, and therefore a clear quality seal strategy in Austria is required. We need appropriate instruments to promote animal welfare, for example in the form of investment support for particularly animal-friendly forms of attitudes. Ladies and gentlemen! The clear objective of this Austrian animal welfare law simply requires alliance between farmers and consumers, and we must consolidate this alliance. We need this consumer confidence in high quality Austrian food. Of course, this comprehensive animal protection is necessary. That is out of question. Agricultural farming must be included, as must the attitudes of animals for demonstration purposes, such as circuses and zoos, as well as pets and pets. The discussion on animal welfare must, of course, also be seen in the European perspective. It can't be just a national question, and I'm very glad, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, you have said that European standards are also to be taken into account. It is precisely in this direction that we must interpret this animal welfare law. The date of accession is: In the area of animal welfare, we must now make the way for an optimal success of enlargement. Therefore, I say: uniform European standards, security that only food is offered in accordance with the EU standard, safeguarding consumer confidence. There must be no uncertainty about the quality of food, even if there are transitional periods for animal welfare provisions. Therefore, we really want to stand up for it with a strong single voice in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We are all aware and, above all, agriculture is aware, agriculture and animal welfare are necessarily interconnected. One can almost say that they form a community of fate. It is really useful to place the common on the parting – regardless of whether we work with animals or for animals – and to highlight the common interests of animal protectionists, farmers and consumers. This is to be articulated in this Austrian animal welfare law. I therefore very much welcome this initiative proposal from the ÖVP, even if you think it is too late. It's never too late! I am very happy and grateful to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that he has also taken this initiative for domestic agriculture, especially in view of enlargement. That is a very important point. The aim must therefore be to anchor legislation in the field of animal welfare at federal level for pet animals, farm animals and animals for demonstration purposes. That is why I also ask you, there can be no question who is present at this survey or who is not in it. I think we should discuss this. That won't be the problem. But we should support this request for the holding of this survey, and therefore the appeal to all political groups to create an Austrian law on animal welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5781	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. The clock is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5799	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a positive assessment of some of the approaches and remarks of the previous speaker. There is really some hope that one will finally come to a conclusion, because in the field of animal protection policy has clearly failed in the last legislative period. The legal organisation and the administration in this area are in fact in a embarrassing state: 11 national laws, 35 regulations – or are they more? – and more than 600 paragraphs. Ladies and gentlemen! What has actually failed to do with a modern federal animal welfare law? – Only the idea of taking away national leaders' competences was obscene in the last legislative period. Or an influential lobby in agriculture meant that it was all economically impossible. It has been mercilessly prevented, I can sing a song of it as an officer in the committee responsible. The reform has been blocked and any progress has been prevented. There is also no reason – it is generally known – not to say who is responsible: It is the ÖVP that has blocked every reform in this area in the past. But – now, so to speak, from the whip to the sugar bread – the statements of the Chancellor and of the heads of state that this was wrong and that one wants to carry out a reform in this respect is, of course, a great opportunity to move forward on this issue, which is really about living beings and not about things. It is also an opportunity for Parliament to prove once to the population that it is doing something, something that 330,000 people called for in a daily campaign 10 years ago. It is known that in 1996 460 000 Austrians supported a popular desire in this direction. Animal welfare organisations For many years, they have been engaged with all the greatest commitment. All in all, it is also about cleaning up a legal fragmentation, summarizing competences and putting the idea of economy in the foreground. But I believe that some conditions must simply be fulfilled so that we can actually achieve a result. First of all, it must be done openly, fairly and with good will by all those involved. Ladies and gentlemen! If I look at the request for a parliamentary survey, I have to ask: Is it really fair, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA to determine the date to set the procedure? Is it really fair to put the request to the other political groups one day before the parliamentary deliberations of this first reading on the table? – It is still a certain margin to prove common sense. I would like to appeal to you urgently to vote as essential things as such a survey in advance. ==References== The European Parliament adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we could also start to clarify the constitutional side immediately. We do not have to wait half a year for the German Chancellor's statement, some time before the National Council election until mid-April 2003. There is no reason at all not to explain formal legal matters right now. Perhaps – Mrs Rauch-Kallat is certainly legitimate – we could agree at this first reading that we are already clarifying formal principles in advance, as the survey will focus primarily on matters of content. What will be important – no matter how always a coalition will look – is that then everyone must resist the temptation to pack certain things with the animal protection matter. In this matter, the opposition parties, whoever will be, are not allowed to operate opposition for the sake of the opposition. This too is very important. I would like to argue that a coalition-free space should be created and that all should focus on this matter independently of other political matters and constellations. I believe that we should also allow the public to do so, which has already been discussed today. That would be very important. There is nothing to hide here, we can handle the animal welfare matter in front of the public. I think a certain pace is also necessary. It would have to be possible to adopt a Federal Animal Protection Act before the summer. I think that if everyone concentrates and tries, we could face the population and say: We did something together, we created a Federal Animal Protection Act before the summer of 2003. The SPÖ is very ambitious and very committed to working on this topic. We have the relevant expertise, the relevant experts. I would like to make one more point. There is also a SPÖ resolution request towards a federal uniform framework law for fisheries. This also has a lot to do with animal welfare, because more than 410 000 Austrians are among the anglers. Ladies and gentlemen! It is absurd and ridiculous that various tests are required in the individual federal states, for example, or that there are bureaucratic obstacles if someone from Vienna wants to fish in Carinthia, or that dealing with the living beings in Vorarlberg should be different from in Lower Austria or, for example, in Styria. The Austrian Fisheries Advisory Council and the top officials are waiting for the green light of politics and are also ready to do something in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, the Federal Animal Protection Act: The SPÖ and the Greens have been ready for this reform for many years. It has been the ÖVP for a quarter of a year, the FPÖ as well. Let's do it at last! Let's do it competently, quickly and together!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5862	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. The clock is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5881	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! It is welcome that all the groups in the House want a uniform animal welfare law. We liberals have been fighting for a very long time for this animal welfare law. Since 1994 our Minister has repeatedly pointed out these abuses. We all know why it failed, and we have always fought in the countries for this law to come. Ladies and gentlemen! Animal welfare is a difficult matter. We agree that animals are not a matter. We liberals have long called for a cross-border regulation because it is not to be seen that there are nine different national animal protection laws. I can remind you, for example, of the differences in the legal regulations between the West and the East regarding the holding of chicken. This is, of course, a sensitive area for us, especially in the field of agriculture. This is why special attention must be paid to this area, because it is not intended to create conditions that threaten the existence of farmers. It is therefore also important that, in the application of the Greens concerning such a Federal Animal Protection Act, § 4 of which deals with this subject in detail, namely the remuneration or promotion of animal welfare – I would put it in the same way as environmental protection – so that farmers do not suffer any damage from it, since this is a matter in the interests of society. There may be additional proposals, because many of non-agricultural incomes – especially in the case of auxiliary farmers – go to agriculture, such as the granting of tax relief for income tax or other things to pay off investments in animal welfare, in animal welfare and in animal welfare and in the creation of additional incentives. In principle, I think it sad that animal welfare in our society is not a matter of course, but rather of a constitutional regime. With regard to education – whether in kindergartens or schools – one should establish animal welfare as a teaching subject, so that not only measures are put in place, but this issue is also taken seriously in the education of our children and our youth, because especially in the youth the protection of animals begins. I think that would be an essential thing. To anchor the protection of our animals in the federal constitution is approved by all of us. Conscious animal torture is strictly persecuted and punished. This also includes the animal torture killing – I am very behind it myself – of animals such as chess. I personally believe that the award of an animal protection seal for holdings whose animal husbandry is carried out in accordance with the animal justice index is a good idea. This could also be done well in marketing to consumers. There are a few things I reject. If I look at the request of § 31, “competences of the supervisory bodies”, point 1, this is a bit disturbing because these provisions do not give protection. In point 2, it says: ‘2. (a) to enter the land, buildings and facilities referred to in Z 1 outside business and operating hours; This is a measure which, in my opinion, goes too far. I would like to remind the Greens that they have always rejected the surveillance state. In these areas, greater sensitivity should be shown, and these points should also be discussed jointly, namely whether there could also be another regulation which is nevertheless efficient enough to ensure animal welfare. Of course, you also need to talk about the establishment of an independent animal lawyer. In principle: Animal attorneys, yes, but as far as the question of whether he should be wise, I believe that this would not necessarily bring an improvement. Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to praise you from the Greens for your intensive work, because it is important that every group in the field of animal welfare strives for something to go on. I invite you that we, together with all the political groups, not only work out this animal welfare law as quickly as possible, but also decide finally.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5948	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5966	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! “As soon as possible” – these words used my predecessor at the end of his remarks. I'm allowed to hold on to this: It should not be up to us that in the area of animal protection, which has been discussed here repeatedly for several legislative periods, nails are finally made with heads. It's not supposed to lie to us! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I only need to point out, since when we have made requests, how intensively this issue has already been discussed in subcommittees, that there are, in principle, already very practical proposals by all experts to ensure that they are on the table and in principle only to be negotiated more effectively. I see in this loop, which is now regained by means of a survey, possibly a delay tactic, especially since this is no longer necessary: We know that the 460 000 people who have signed the popular desire are for this; we know that the EIA's peasantry is for this; Mr President, we also know that the FPÖ is working with us in this regard, and, of course, the SPÖ has been working with us on this matter for a long time. So I wonder why there are still these many survey loops! It's clear we want a sensible, targeting animal protection. We want higher standards. We want a uniformation. We want this alliance between consumers and farmers, because the quality of the product, the food, the meat is an argument in the sales area. That the quality is better if the animals live fear-free, I need that, I don't think I'm telling you. That is why I do not understand this slight delaying tactic in any way. We could have been dealing with committee work for a long time; we could have already edited the final texts, but I fear that something will come true, what my colleague Fekter from the ÖVP said in a report on 21 January. ==References== In fact, at a district assembly in Vöcklabruck, Breitenschutzing, in front of farmers, it has literally answered a question of the national harmonization of animal welfare: It won't be eaten as hot as cooked. So the farmers should not worry, after all, they are now in the election campaign. That was the wording of Mrs Fekter, according to an APA press release. I hope this doesn't happen now. At the moment, as far as I can see, it is not in the hall, but I think that Mr Grillitsch's word is true, which has expressed his support for the creation of this law as soon as possible. My previous speaker also said: has been shown that we need it quickly. It is therefore a matter of ensuring that this is respected and above all that our approach towards the prosecution of animals is taken seriously. It should not continue to be so that only one infringement or a torture of 5 000 is displayed. In this respect, there is a high number of dark figures, which proves that in the area of animal torture of misery and pain, it is only so depressing. We need competent people who make up the voice of animals, because that must belong to the past. We will be happy to take care of it as soon as possible, and this first reading will also contribute to this. As I said, it is important to eliminate the emergency as quickly as possible, to advance the lawyer's office and to maintain the alliance with open agriculture and to bring it to a successful end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6033	As the next speaker, Mrs Rauch-Kallat is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6051	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Today, we have a big discussion on the occasion of a first reading on a Federal Animal Protection Act in a situation in which the Austrian People's Party will make a constitutional change in animal welfare after intense discussions in recent years – and after an agreement that Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel could reach with the national leaders last autumn – because this is a major concern for many people in the country. I must say that in the discussions I have repeatedly held that it is about protecting animals as effectively as possible, and that it is not significant whether this is done in national competence or in federal competence. But in part the opposition has succeeded in making visible, or it has tried to make visible that it is also due to competence. We have a very different situation on this issue, especially now, because of the changes in the European Union, than we did a few years ago. On the basis of an EIA initiative, the issue of animal welfare has been brought into the European Union at all. It was also true that Austria has been anything but inactive in the field of animal welfare in recent years and decades. I should like to point out that, at the beginning of the 1990s, an Article 15a agreement on the protection of farm animals in the agricultural sector had already brought substantial improvements to this Austria within the European Union, although we were not yet members of the European Union at the time. This agreement has been in force since 1995 and includes the conditions of use, movement, soil and cage characteristics, the stable climate and the care intensity for cattle, pigs and poultry. In addition, several years later, we also reached an Article 15a agreement in order to create uniform federal standards – that was ultimately the concern – to improve the non-agricultural sector, both for pet farming, in other words for dogs, birds, tortoises, turtles, as well as for the attitude in animal acts and the zoo directive in the EU also for the position in zoos. There are minimum standards which already apply throughout Austria, i.e. federally uniform, and which have also been laid down in the framework of an Article 15a Treaty. There were also corresponding improvements or initiatives in the area of the attitude of martial dogs – in each case related to the occasion. There was an intensification in the § 89 of the Criminal Code, and with the Criminal Law Change Act 2000, a subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee was set up. We have implemented an intensification of the penalties for animal torture, which is based on an initiative by Georg Schwarzenberger and Deputies Grollitsch from FPÖ. In particular, we also have in the field of education and training. the animal testing has been a model for Europe and has always tried to develop and improve a federal law on animal welfare, namely the animal transport law. Especially in the area of railway and air – there is already this in the area of road – we are trying to bring about appropriate improvements. But above all, I believe that we have achieved the inclusion of animal welfare in the legal system of the European Union in 1997 with Wolfgang Schüssel, on the basis of an initiative by German chancellors, then Foreign Minister, together with Italy, and with the Amsterdam Treaty, there is now a protocol on animal welfare and welfare. This also enshrines the matter of animal welfare in the primary law of the European Union. Especially in view of the enlargement of the European Union to include those countries which, in particular in agriculture and thus, of course, also in the field of animal welfare, it is important that this initiative be taken in the European Union. Therefore, it has also been the German Chancellor's concern to convince our federal states to agree to a constitutional change so that European initiatives or European framework directives can be implemented more quickly in Austria. We have also presented this, and we have tabled an own-initiative proposal at the first meeting of the National Council in December, and we have today a request for an inquiry to be held in April. As I can see from the speeches made by my colleagues from the other political groups, there is still a desire for changes in the formal procedure. I can only point out that we are at any time ready to take into account these formal wishes at a fractional level or at a club level, or to agree that we can be treated fairly in the survey, so that we can very soon come to a draft, which hopefully – that was always my concern – will not be the smallest common denominator, but the largest common multiple.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6108	As the next speaker, Mrs Pepper is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6127	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Animals also have rights! Let us remember: In 1996, the animal welfare population was signed by almost half a million, exactly 459 096 persons. In the meantime, full six years have passed, but the problem is still the same. We still do not have a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act in Austria, and I have to pass the ball on to the ÖVP again: You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, have not been able to decide on this and have always managed to delay and prevent it! – But just a few days before the National Council election, ÖVP suddenly discovered the love for the animal. The reasons for this are, of course, obvious: This sensitive issue, ladies and gentlemen, which affects and employs many people, is not to be underestimated. However, I am still not sure whether animal welfare will be a serious concern to you, because there would have been a long time since there was a need for action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Grill: Every day, animal welfare is a serious concern for us!]] We from SPÖ have been fighting for years for a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act. [[Abg. Grillitsch: In our daily work, animal welfare is a concern for us!]] Even now, at the beginning of the new legislative period – on all fronts, Mr Schweitzer – we have tabled a request to finally have a common Austrian-wide regime and solution. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where did you fight?]] I am therefore very excited and curious about whether the ÖVP is fulfilling its election promise. But I would also like to deposit one here: If there is indeed a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act, it must be one of the most modern and strict regulations. We will not be satisfied with an alibi action. A uniform Federal Animal Protection Act must bring a tangible improvement to all animals, ladies and gentlemen! I can still remember very well the negotiations in the Committee when a colleague from the ÖVP meant that we should wait for the federal states to be able to make improvements. I share this view. – I would like to be delighted and proud to report that my federal state of Burgenland has succeeded in winning all four parties for a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act. This was still happening under the then clubman of the ÖVP Burgenland Franz Glaser, our current National Council colleague. Dear, my dear colleague, Glaser! I hope and wish you were standing here in the House in spite of the anti-wind of your party friends and raised your voice together with me for a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the only way to get closer to our common goal. So let us take the opportunity and finally do something for our four-legged friends!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6208	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6226	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, as a very young Member, as someone who is out here for the first time, I should like to express my astonishment at what consensus SPÖ, ÖVP, the Greens and, in part, my own people are prepared to fight together for animal welfare. I must say that I am also wondering about the SPÖ, because it has been fighting very intensively for this animal welfare law for only two years, although the last 30 years have had enough opportunity to do something in this area. [[Objection to the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can only follow the remarks made by my previous speaker, Mr Wittauer: FPÖ was always a factor in animal welfare. Prime Minister – Mrs Rauch-Kallat has already carried it out – and his department has taken a lot of initiatives. You have already mentioned the more stringent criminal provisions. However, I would like to add this: It was also a liberal initiative under Minister Reichhold, on the basis of which laboratory stations and drinking stations for transports were introduced for the first time, which significantly contributed to the improvement of animal transport for the individual animals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Since I'm just at the replica on my predecessors, I have to say: Mr Grillitsch himself comes from the peasantry. He meant – how did you say? –: “It’s never too late!” – Mr. Cot! This word will be You need more often if you want to change something in the future, because it will really be necessary to bring about changes. Mr. Dr. Kräube complained about eleven laws, 35 regulations and several hundred paragraphs. – Mr Colleague! I would like to inform you as follows: I believe that these regulations, laws and paragraphs are at least the guarantee that in Austria – currently at country level, perhaps also at federal level in the future – we have very good, very detailed legislation on animal welfare, which really ensures a high level of protection for animals, and that this matter has certainly been treated very well in our federal states so far. The example of laying hens was mentioned. It is true that there are federal states, which are already voting on it and which have been decided that in 2004 and 2006 – depending on the federal state – a ban on laying hens and laying batteries is to be imposed. However, I would also like to remind you here that there is a need to guarantee legal certainty for the peasantry – there are farmers who operate these leghold batteries. I consider it very critical and also very problematic to report to such farms – in Carinthia, we have such a holding, whose operators received more than 10 million schilling from the country two years ago in support of public support for the renewal of his farm – that they are to be closed in two years without a transitional period, without financial compensation. Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ and the Green Group! I already give thought to the fact that one should act with caution and not put existence at risk – even if there are only 20 or 30 farms in Carinthia. I am convinced that every farmer has the right to continue his operation and that he also has the right to live safely on the basis of his investment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Very often today the shoulder closure between consumers and farmers has already been addressed. It is quite clear that this is one of the most important shoulder closures we need, but one should be aware, as a consumer – we are all consumers and not just parliamentarians – of the fact that one has the highest decision-making power in ensuring improvements in animal welfare. Why don't you take your own nose? There are detailed studies that demonstrate that 80 percent of consumers and buyers take eggs from cage holding and not eggs from soil and from the nature of their attitude. This means that policy can create maximum conditions to change something. It is up to us, to the consumers, that we are willing to pay more for these products, that we are willing to set up initiatives to promote this and maintain our peasantry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6304	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6323	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that if we discuss the issue of animal welfare, then we should seriously discuss the subject and not make any refusal to do so – a refusal of reality, which some of the previous speakers have already done. I would like to address these points in detail. I do myself as a Salzburger It is relatively easy to argue here because Salzburg is the first and only federal country in which animal welfare was enshrined in the constitution. There's been 20 since 20. On 1 March 2002, a government target was set to ensure that the animal's dignity as a fellow animal was safeguarded. Now you know very well that this is not a fundamental right, but rather an orientation for the administration, a commitment to the country's legislation. I personally see this as a first step. I believe that further steps must be taken. We Socialists are also confirmed by this, as was the case yesterday with Commissioner Fischler, in the context of the debate on agricultural reform. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Parts of the agricultural reform also include animal welfare. Animal welfare has become an objective within the framework of the European Union, as part of this agricultural reform. Payments to farmers should, inter alia, be made subject to compliance with animal welfare standards. I'll hold on to this. The Socialist Group is committed to this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grillic: Which standards?]] I now come to speak to colleagues Grillitsch, who is not in Parliament for a long time, but thinks he has to shine with intermediate calls. I don't think I interrupted you either, Mr Grillitsch. You're a young Member. Maybe you can lift the standard of this house, but then I would ask you to distance yourself from intermediate calls. [[Abg. Dr. Bleckmann: Are you uncomfortable?]] Mr Grillitsch said there was a social consensus on animal welfare. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is a general consensus. As far as Austria is concerned, we have no high level of animal welfare, and according to Article 15a-B-VG agreements, the high level of animal welfare in Austria is not guaranteed. Examples please? – Suspicious of animal diseases in a pigry farm in Upper Austria. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Which one?]] On this question, Landesrat has committed itself to Achatz. And now I'm saying it very concretely here. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Which one?]] I asked parliamentary questions. What did your Federal Minister Molterer tell me? – He informed that no information could be provided for data protection reasons. [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: So nothing!]] Mr Schweitzer! But your minister has given a very concrete answer. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's how we're used to it!]] In the course of this local eye-catching, the official veterinarian killed ten pigs painlessly under the terms of the Upper Austrian Animal Protection Act and applied for their section and so on. “Four paws” and other animal welfare organisations have committed themselves to this issue and identified the shortcomings that are precisely in the field of veterinary management, and we need to talk about them as well. Mr. Grillich! They meant that animal welfare should be seen in the European context. I agree: We need uniform standards at European level. – But: We already have them, ladies and gentlemen, only they will not be respected by the federal states! Examples please? – Total current: The European Commission has launched the second stage of the infringement procedure against Austria, Belgium, Greece, Italy and Portugal, as these countries have apparently failed to implement the Directive adopted in 1999 laying down minimum requirements for the protection of laying hens. Further example: An action against Austria because Austria has not transposed the Directive on the protection of animals in zoos. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, if we are seriously discussing the problem of animal welfare, then we must not make a reality refusal. We need to see the problems that lie particularly in the field of national administrations. We Social Democrats are in favour of a federal animal welfare law, and we will actively and in terms of content.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6441	Mr Waneck, State Secretary, has now been reported by the Government Bank. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6462	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It may not be for me, but I may make the following comment after having the honour of working here for almost three years: I do not feel that intelligent calls of call in debates are disturbing, but I believe they are raising the parliamentary debate. [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] Nor is it a denial of reality to say that we do not have a federal uniform animal welfare law; nor do we have a single law on the protection of young people. What's the Crux? – The Crux is that the farm animals are legally located in the Ministry of Agriculture, all other animals in the Ministry of the Interior, but that the professional competence actually belongs to the health resort. In this sense, I can express here a great deal that both Prime Minister and I are very open to such an individual. We must not forget, however, the European dimension that has been adapted here. The Austrian Federal Government has been very successful in bringing animal welfare law into the EU's agricultural negotiations and also making important arguments. The most important thing for both a human and a veterinary physician is respect for life. Therefore, from this point of view, I can show you the basic support for a federal animal welfare law. The question of an animal prosecution is also something serious, worthy of discussion. This has always been part of the free movement policy, as you may know. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever loves people, he also loves animals, and vice versa. I am therefore quite optimistic about the discussion today of a possible four-party agreement within the meaning of a federal uniform animal welfare law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6513	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6532	Mr President. High house! This debate today shows that the demands of the Greens, which have been massively raised for more than a decade – not only here in Austria, but Europe – have obviously met with hearings, have finally come across recognition, and that, at last, there is a willingness to start this dialogue, namely the dialogue for animal welfare, which is at the heart of consumers and which should also be of the heart of farming, which unfortunately has not always been the case in the past. I therefore regard your opinion as a change of course here and today, which we will certainly take note of. [[towards ÖVP]] We will also look closely at whether you are really on the issue and take seriously the opportunity to finally fix mankos in the quality assurance of our food in Austria and to reach a solution with this debate on a federal animal welfare law. I would like to give an example. Mr Grillitsch, you have referred to the quality seal strategy. The AMA seal does not continue to have any animal protection-related standards in its regulatory system, except that in eggs the cage holding of the chickens is prohibited. Apart from that, this does not work formally, because each federal state has a different animal welfare law. Thus, the AMA can also not develop a uniform Austrian animal protection standard for this quality seal. . You see that from the point of view of agriculture in particular, a uniform law is obsolete. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One word on the question of who put what into this agricultural debate. – That’s quite clear: From the outset, Commissioner Fischler has called for uniform European environmental and animal welfare standards in his proposals, in the same way as the Greens in Europe, in the same way as many NGOs, animal welfare organisations and so on. Not you, Mr Grillitsch, have asked for this, but the Commissioner for Agriculture has seen it in the many debates he has held in Europe – and has rightly seen it, ladies and gentlemen! One of the accompanying measures you mentioned: There is no doubt that during the last legislative period, we have called for a destocking programme for intensive animal husbandry so that these farms can be reduced to an agricultural level. In this context, we have so far only been able to notice one headshake on your part. Or: the question of cagekeeping. That'll be the nail sample for you. Mrs Rauch-Kallat said that the biggest common multiple would be the strategy you are going to pursue here. I am very excited to see if you can endure this, because that would mean, at last, seriously discussing how to get out of cage farming in the area of laying hens. This is not an animal-friendly attitude, it is not a consumer-oriented agricultural production. It would really be time to let that go, Mr Grillitsch, and I would like to say that we are ready to discuss the dates and the possibilities there are. One thing is certain: The shaped cages are not the solution because the chickens then, when they have more space, are under even more stress and the so-called crowding effect is removed. In the cages, where they sit close together, they cannot develop aggressions at all, and therefore there is less cannibalism there than in shaped cages. – But this is a subject debate that we will hold in the poll. As far as this survey is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I take your signals seriously. You said that it was still going to be discussed and you were ready to speak in relation to the speakers in relation to the procedure et cetera. I believe it is urgent that animal welfare experts working with farmed animals conduct relevant research with farmed animals should also be invited. I have so far not been able to see such a thing from the proposals for introductory references, but I am sure that we will come to a solution in the discussion. Finally, on the issue of information policy on your side: Mr Grillitsch, please make sure that, in questions of animal welfare in the agricultural media, a positive discussion style finally takes place in Austria! Stop with this nurturing of green animal protectors! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can show you a number of examples that have just been used by you in your media in the last National Council election campaign. Put it off, it's time, my colleague Grillitsch!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6601	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 12/A to the Constitutional Committee. 7. Point First reading: Request by Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the University Tax Act 1972, the University Study Act 1997 and the University Law 2002 (16/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6637	Now we're on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The word will first be given to the applicant. It is this honourable Member Dr. Grünewald. Your speaking time is voluntarily limited to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6662	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I have always thought that discussions, explorations or negotiations should be primarily based on exchange of views, exchange of arguments, rise from allegations and come to arguments. I would like to mention these arguments in terms of tuition fees once again, with the criticism that they are ultimately poor. I even propose something positive to you, because you know the need for the arguments, but I think that these thoughts and ideas are very important. At this point I allow myself to say: Thoughts have nothing to look for between the teeth, they should be located elsewhere, then you can talk. I observed Mr. Khol once on mountain climbing, there he was in motion. Now, in the effort of level and negotiation, I see no movement. I see only insistence on dogmas, but no dialogue. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also really bordering on absolute dyeing, if it is now claimed that students and their parents would have accepted the tuition fees. – They assumed nothing, they gave up, they gave money, and that not little. The Austrians, as you say, have also accepted it and have thus confirmed the government rate that they pay the highest taxes of the Second Republic, that they pay ambulance fees. They've taken all of that. But why did they accept it, Mrs. Minister? - Because they didn't have any other choice! From this I find a confirmation of the government's course arrogant. I'd win this bet that's not the case. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If people don't have a choice, they don't get any arguments, and the resistance didn't help because you didn't listen to them. So that wasn't a fair fight. Nor did the goodness of the arguments increase when they said: What costs nothing is worth nothing! - That's not the way it is. I would like to spare you to think about it, but there are certainly values that cannot be measured in money. I would like to admit, if you want to hear it, that there may be more disasters than tuition fees, but that doesn't make them fairer, it doesn't make them any better sense. Sage You're telling me: How do you want to achieve your bold goals – a doubling of the academic rate, a significant increase in the number of researchers per thousand employees – when you draw in lattices when you build barriers? To believe that more people will study through tuition fees is absurd. Let's take a look at the statistics! It is true that the number of first semesters has increased slightly. But first, the number of students has fallen by 20 percent. In the winter semester 2001/2002, the number of first-inscribers fell by 14 percent. If it now increases by 10 percent, then – you don't need to be a mathematician to be able to subtract it – still a minus of 4 percent. – This is a small success, but not a huge one. There have always been untruths that one cannot call lies here, that is clear to me. It is known and calculated that after students enter their professional life through tax progression, 90 percent of all benefits that the state has invested in them are refunded by their taxes. The bowl meant that students cost so much per capita. I can tell you that since 1970 the costs per student, as measured by GDP, have fallen by 60 per cent. That's the truth. More cost-effective than students are only people's students. All other students cost more than students per capita. This too has been misrepresented over and over again, and I don't like it. It was the great word “fevering these loads ” in your mouth. What is the truth? The share of study aid recipients has risen from 12 percent to 14 percent. This is one of the lowest values in the OECD countries. I got the numbers here. If you are trying to disprove them, I will present your statistics to you from the ministry. You only have to be able to divide and control the other basic accounting modes to prove that. Do you know what effects have not been eroded – therefore the report on the social situation of students since 1999 – it is overdue –? It has never been reported that Austria has the highest value among all OECD countries with 74 percent of students already working in addition to their studies. [[Abg. Elf wall: Bravo!]] There was your government. Bravo, say! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ellwall.]] You think the study can be completed faster if 74 percent of students work next door? I know, in practice, but then I'm gonna lay it down. You don't ask students to be with us longer, so I'd ask. Karl Kraus once said that it would be particularly difficult with people who don't have new and good ideas and then try to explain them. I would ask you to return to the tuition fees again. There may be major disasters, but only by measuring whether the disasters are larger or smaller does a government not lead us either. You have to see tuition fees in the context of the entire university reform, and as far as they are concerned, you know that the majority of those concerned oppose your plans. And there are not only the stupidest, there are not only fundamentalists and concreteists behind it, but quite recognized international top scientists. I would like to ask you: Let us stop cutting each other's chandeliers, but let's really try to enter into a dialogue! If the goodness of the arguments here has a value and not only power, then, I think, one has good chances of having a reasonable dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6728	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6747	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Groenewald. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent work. Dialogue and appreciation of the arguments have been requested. I would like to enter the dialogue and read your request very carefully. If you follow this, you have to say that the Austrians will soon be asked for the cash register with about € 145 million. This is the money that universities lack after the cancellation of the study contributions according to the university tax law. Their request is that this should be made available to universities from budget resources. I wonder – if the budget is 100 percent: Where are you taking it? How do you take about 2 billion schillings to give them to universities? Or do you want to say that the universities could give up these 2 billion schillings? – I don’t say that because I know the universities, they need the money. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: This is the academic rate!]] So: Do you take it away from the families, the labour market, the social chapter? Who are you taking away these 2 billion schillings? [[Abg. Oils: Unemployment insurance is already paying for it!]] I would also like to say the following. In the meantime, the statistics and research institutes are also working with numbers of students – when it comes to students – with study activity and students without study activity. I am very happy about this differentiation, because it is thus proven that the number of students with study activity has remained the same, that the number of degrees has increased and that the number of students taking the exams has also risen. I know, and you know that too, Mr. Colleague, because you are actively teaching and researching in university life: No university teacher, no university teacher will confirm that fewer students sit in the audiences, that fewer students want to have their seminary studies or that fewer students want to hold their research talks. That is, the work has remained the same, the number of students active has remained the same; it even increases – which I am very pleased with – not by 10 percent, but by 12.5 percent, if I read the statistics carefully. There is even an increase of 20 percent for beginners at the WU. – These are actually quite encouraging numbers. Have now She said: Study contributions are not a disaster. – Of course, I would also like to go to the universities with full bags and say: A miracle has occurred, we can give up all the savings and budget consolidation measures. – But that is not the case! Otherwise, you have to explain other budget chapters, other budget sectors where you take the money. Further confirmation of the path initiated and implemented by the government – I am now responsible for Gehrer-grasser, namely, responsible for science and finance: The study aid has been increased. And we are not that bad with about 20 percent of the approved applications. If you consider that the highest scholarship is €7272 per year, then you must admit that is not a small sum. If you are looking at this amount of a simple employee, a simple worker, you will reap astonishment. Then: This is a very solid social security. Sage She also asked that a family of two studying children who do not study at the place of residence receive 60,000 S tuition grants at a monthly household income of about – I still say in Schilling. If you call these numbers, please also take these relationships into account! This means that I will only be confirmed if the study just completed on the social situation of students comes to a good conclusion. I quote the following from the press, where you could also read it: “It has therefore not changed in recent years in higher education with regard to the social origin of students. The introduction of the study contributions in October 2001 has also had no effect.” [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: It should improve!]] There are no changes, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. You said the situation had worsened. They have developed scenarios that were anything but gratifying. I am glad if the conditions have not worsened and if we – I recognise your willingness – are working on an improvement. What do we have to work on, in my opinion? - On the one hand: We know, the typical students, the typical students are not the eighteen-year-old maturant, but the professional. Therefore, the high rate of professional activity. The same applies: Under this government, under Ms Gehrer, the number of female students who complete their studies has increased for the first time. And women are also the majority of the total population of students. I am very glad that the female students have become more. And I'll invite you to: Please let us work on the fact that female students choose nontypical subjects of study, science, technology. We know that these subjects are also equipped with the option of good professional success. All in all, ladies and gentlemen: The study contributions are accepted. You didn't cause all the social hardships you wanted to talk about. We have an increase in the number of first-inscribed people. What we need to work on is a stronger motivation for girls to choose atypical studies, and the so-called remote shifts are also more likely to move to devote themselves to academic studies. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: How?]] This is a very complex task. This is a difficult task in a fun and fun society, because the performance of submitting to some time of this disciplining may not be quite as easy to achieve and the gain of the study becomes visible only later. I'm sure we need a long breath. We are also – and that is right to say – not as bad as you want to be in relation to countries such as Bavaria, Baden-Württemberg or Switzerland with the academic ratio. We are better, as measured by the population! If you compare our numbers with the American numbers, then of course it is true that these are higher. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: No, please! With Sweden, Scandinavia!]] As far as comparisons with American numbers are concerned, I would be careful in high-school diplomas. Not every degree in a U.S. high school is equivalent to our matura. I'll finish. I believe that the future generation, just as it is now in work, has every reason to work towards budget stability. If we keep this assessment from young students, if we do not motivate them to work on the implementation of this practice, we will lead them to an uncertain future. This minister or current government – and I hope every government sees it the same way – cannot expect the young generation to go into an uncertain future. We will only be able to achieve this budgetary stability in terms of social balance and taking account of the needs of universities and universities together, with the consideration and appreciation of all the arguments, Mr Green Forest. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I'm asking for this!]] I'll invite you all to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6870	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6888	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Are the tuition fees abolished or not? – This is undoubtedly one of the exciting questions these days. The fact is that our 69 Members and 17 colleagues in the Green Group will not be able to make a majority decision on the abolition. Federal Chancellor Schüssel, who has the task of forming a government, said yesterday that he does not accept any conditions. This will be difficult, because the only party that, after our observation, is unconditionally ready to deliver to the ÖVP are the liberals. But Knittelfeld can repeat itself every day. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: My God, he can't let it!]] On the other hand, we Socialists have a clear programme for open access to education without barriers, and we also have a commitment to our 1.8 million voters. And it is probably one of the intensities of each negotiation that it can only lead to a result if both parts are willing to take steps on each other. However, the Austrian People's Party has been commissioned by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, and it will first have to explain what steps it is prepared to take. But I didn't come out here to explain our pain limits to you. That would certainly not be wise at this stage. But I can explain to you why we are still firmly convinced that tuition fees are not the right way to increase the academic rate in Austria. Nor did anyone claim – even from the FPÖ or the ÖVP – that no one claimed that study fees had an educational policy objective. They are exclusively a way to add additional revenue, and they do not lead... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I can remember you've paid tuition fees!]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: That was your call!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What led to your change of mind? On the matter! On the matter!]] Mr Auer! I have not taken these quotations with me to explain them in detail. But when we talk about quotations, I can read to you two that may not have been quoted here on the pult. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I remember exactly what you said!]] There was once Mr Amon's statement to read in the APA of 22. September 2000: ‘He, Amon, would have ‘greatest problems’, such a ‘Gscheiterl tax’...’ – to stop budget holes – to ‘vote’ – that sounded quite good. [[Call the SPÖ:Hear, hear!]] And German Chancellor Schüssel himself can also be quoted what the tuition fees are. ==References====External links== May 2000 states: “And so the chancellor believes that the government has ‘not done’ study fees and pleads for the ‘incentive through education’. He too stems from modest circumstances. My mother was a manual teacher, my grandmother housemaster.” – Quote Schüssel in 2000. Yesterday, the 2002 inflation rate was presented: 1.8%, a good value. But what the ORF has so far not shown in either the “ZiB 1” or the “ZiB 2” or the “ZiB 3” I can quote you from the APA where the Statistical Central Office and Statistics Austria have reported about it. I quote: “As the biggest ‘price driver’, the study fees introduced in autumn 2001 proved to be 21.9 percent expensive in the field of ‘education and education’.” – Quotes. 21.9 percent – this is the value to which individual budget expenditure on education has increased by introducing study fees! If anyone else claims that this is something you don't feel in the wallet or in the account, then he's wrong. My colleague Broukal will deal with the specific group of professionals and the numbers of students. These figures also belong to the right light once. But I would like to quote you, Mrs Federal Minister, from a letter that you also need to know, because you have received it, like all the scientific speakers. A dissertant writes the following – I quote –: “I paid my study contribution in this semester, but not my first supervisor,” Prof. Sowieso, “and still my second supervisor,” Prof. Sowieso said, “in this semester, a dissertation seminar is held because it has been reduced to one semester per year of study for reasons of savings. Since I'm still in the old study order, I don't have to attend any additional courses. So that means that I pay study contributions in this semester, without being able to attend the courses I'm planning” – because they simply don't take place! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But you can write!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This student can write at home and pays a study contribution at the university. But that's a "love" argument, colleague Brinek. So, please, do not really argue, if you always emphasize it was also about the achievements of the university that it had to do. However, the tuition fees are only a part and a point of all that is currently showing weaknesses in the university field. The University Law 2002 also shows its first weaknesses before the implementation has started properly. We have always warned against giving the group of ordinary professors an absolute majority in the bodies. A knowledge organization can't be conducted like this! The professors are – I am so reluctant to say “Professors and Professors” because the professors hold almost 97 percent of all professors’ posts – who, with their majority, decide on the new strengths in the founding convention. They also decide how the university's new management bodies, namely the university councils, look out. In this decision-making structure, it is no wonder that the university councils are male in the majority. There are exceptions such as the University of Vienna and the University of Salzburg, but otherwise it looks rather sad. In Vienna there are two women and two men at four councils, in Salzburg there are three councils one man and two women, at the Faculty of Medicine Vienna there are two councils one man and one woman, at the University of Graz there are two councils two men, at the University of Graz there are four councils, at the medicine Graz there are four men, at the Kunstuni Graz there are three councils, and at the University of Klagenfurt there are three men. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you claim that this doesn't make you uncomfortable too, I would be very deceived in you. We from the SPÖ can only ask from this point on all those in the founding conventions who have to do with it to change this condition rapidly during the remaining orders. However, it is also to be criticised for the lack of the university's financial resources – and there we are again in receipt of the tuition fees – as well as the most corrupt service law and the abolition of co-determination. In the last few days, we have all received a scientific appeal from the Federal Conference of University Professors and University Professors, an institution that is in itself positively opposed to this university law which has supported this reform, and in that it says: “In addition, the 2002 University Act requires urgent innovation in some and, in some cases, essential points.” That is what the professors who have always welcomed this reform write! Therefore, one cannot simply say that it is all right, there is no need for reform. I believe that this will really have to be looked at carefully in the early stages before the rails are misplaced. We are concerned with the functioning of the universities. We want a form of organization that enables universities to continue to exist in the future. That's what it's all about! This includes free access to universities, which includes an organisation adapted to the knowledge society, and this includes participation. We will stick to these principles. We will try to bring in our principles of education policy. Whether we will do this in the future in the role of the opposition or as a government, this will be shown for the next 14 days or three weeks or possibly three months. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7028	As the next speaker, Mrs Bleckmann is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7047	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the time when I was studying – that's not so long ago – the audiences were overcrowded at the Faculty of Business, they were full of bones. There was the drug strike at the time because too few laboratory sites were available and colleagues had to wait two to three years until they got a laboratory site. That was under a SPÖ government. I can easily answer the question raised here by Mr Niederweiser, whether there will be any further fees or not: If there is a black and blue coalition, then it will remain because we see it as a sensible measure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, if there is a great coalition, then the question of your large, clearly declared programme is already raised to me, because I see it now that your colleague Burgstaller, who is on the Exploratory Team, is already saying that she could imagine a compromise between ÖVP and SPÖ: for example, a loan model, an exemption from study fees for socially weak, but higher fees for self-indebted long-term students. - So Mrs. Burgstaller in the original tone. This is already the soft line of the SPÖ, as it can imagine the tuition fees and at the same time respect its election promise. – We liberals remain with our program, and we are at our points! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When Mr. Green Forest says to the people... [[Abg. Eder: You also cut off “super” with your program when choosing!]] Excuse me? [[Abg. Eder: You cut off “super”!]] - I'll be right there. If Mr Greenewald says that people didn't have a choice, I have to say: We all know that the choice is very well given and always stands up. The final election result did not please the Greens or the Freemans, but the elections took place and - even this is undisputed - the government course was confirmed, ladies and gentlemen! This reality must also face the greens. It seems that the topic of “student fees ” was not quite the right program, otherwise the result would have looked different. You all know that a student costs the state of Austria €12 350 a year, and the student himself pays only 6 percent of the actual costs. We also know that only a kindergarten in Austria costs more money than what students have to pay monthly for their study place. I mean that the study fee can really be required for the performance you receive, namely 12 350 €, which are spent for each student. We have thus also achieved some effects: First, the duration of the study will be reduced. This is important because we need in a European competition that our graduates are quite young when they enter the work process. In the EU competition, there is no need to compete 27-year-olds with 23-year-olds, because this will be difficult for Austrian graduates in the future. The second effect that has arisen is that the number of graduates has increased very well. In any case, this is also an important point. In 2002 we had more than 16 700 graduates. The number of graduates thus increased by 7.9 percent. It is also gratifying that the proportion of women has increased by 50 percent. All the money taken in with it then directly benefits the universities via the university billions, and this is also an important effect. I would be interested in how you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, would otherwise imagine financing if this money were not lifted. Where are your good ideas, how else could the money be raised? These funds or they will now be used for structural measures that are important but also for teaching and study activities. It is really important that the study contributions remain in the universities. Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, the number of applications for study funding has increased recently. It is important, in our opinion, that no one is excluded from studying on the basis of his financial situation, but it is also important that no one is simply instigating. But that's exactly what happened before. This also proves your reasoning in which you write that there are 45 000 students less than in the last semester before the introduction of study fees. It's exactly all the sham-screws that have been dropped away. I think this is a very important effect. It cannot therefore be that we say: The new idea that exists for the universities is that everything remains the way it is – as you might imagine from the Greens or the SPÖ. If we need and want new ideas for Austria, this means that we are also implementing reforms and changing things – and that is what we stand for.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7130	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. The speaking time is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7148	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mrs Bleckmann, said that the election was neither successful for the liberals nor for the Greens. – Well, we are not really so dissatisfied. But I admit: If we had achieved what you lost, it would have been much better for us! - But we still have time to do that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: (in the direction of Abg. May. Mainoni, point to the speaker) He's right, you have to admit that!]] [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: Dieter, that was your best shame ever since you were in the house!]] What was more interesting, however, were Mrs Brinek's comments. To a certain extent, I admire it again and again for it to represent measures, as in this case the tuition fees, in total, as if that had made everything better, up to the social situation that would have improved. That's where I wonder: If you were to double the tuition fees, would the students do so well twice? - It won't be. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Listen!]] But what you can really look at is: What were the developments after that? – As far as I have come to understand it correctly, Federal Chancellor Schüssel calls the doubling of the academic ratio as one of the key objectives of politics for the next years. In my opinion, this is the case, because if you look at the Austrian figures, you have to find that Austria has a student rate, an academic rate that is simply below average by far; you know that just as well as I do. – You have also said that we are not at all bad with other countries, such as Baden-Württemberg. I do not know which country Baden-Württemberg is in the EU. If we compare ourselves with Germany, then we have to find that the academic rate there is also higher than in Austria. If you look at the initial study rates according to the OECD report, you will see that the average in the OECD is 45 percent in the age, the Austrian value is 33 percent, and peaks as in Finland are 71 percent. I do not need to refer to my own figures, but I only need to refer to OECD numbers in order to show what the data really looks like. The introduction of study fees has led to a reduction in the number of students. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: On paper! Active students!]] You'll be able to admit that. – Now you celebrate it as a huge success, that there has been a resumption afterwards. – Well, up to a certain degree you can observe in the curves that, if there is a very strong decline, this trend can also reverse again. But they call it a success! At least I don't understand one thing: If this goal of wanting to have more students is serious, then I don't quite understand that 45 000 students are trying to sell less than success! It will be difficult to really raise the quotas in this way. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: It's about the active students...!]] Because always talking about the shamsters, one has to say the following: The benefits there have been for such once have been gradually reduced. What's left of it? – A discounted meal in the Mensa, perhaps a discounted entry into the museums. For this you pay € 15 per semester as a contribution to the ÖH – this can then be calculated against each other to see what remains. Where are those benefits you're always talking about? Where are the free rides? – All of this has been abolished! So you're talking about sham-scripers who seem to be having fun going to the bank twice a year to pay for this because it's apparently a game of society. Of these, there were no longer many, and you will have to recognize that. – A few will have already given it, as I give you the right, some things will have already spoken for it. But if you want to explain that 45 000 students in Bausch and Bogen were misguided, that all those who have studied for long periods of time, who simply could not afford to do a full-time study in addition to their job, in addition to their work, and exactly those who have then considered whether these 5 000 S are still reasonable in the half-year, are not worth anything – and that is what you can say when you call these numbers and speak of the “success” of the decline – then I can only say: [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Interpret the numbers!]] Our access to it is another one! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In my studies, it is not primarily about studying at maximum speed and coming out of university after four years with his degree. There are also other values and other values. If someone says that I want to study a certain amount of work in addition to my work, it has a value for me. In view of what you have done with these students – this argument now comes back to burdening the long-term students – you have to ask yourself the question: What makes this happen? – As a rule, it is not because it is very fun to be at the university for 15 years, but because of the fact that the framework conditions are that way. Mr Grünewald mentioned earlier that it would be 74 percent who would have to work in Austria in order to finance their studies somehow. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Don’t “work”, “work”!]] – Or “work”; do not have to work, but work. – Among these 74 percent, there will be a relatively large proportion of students who have to make restrictions on their studies, during their studies, and they have not been taken into account. You have mentioned a number that also seems remarkable to me – that comes back again and again: Up to a household income of 60 000 S, there are scholarships. I assume that the average Austrian household income is below 60,000 S. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek:... two students!]] If I look at this now, then if this new measure has led to such an improvement, it must have led to an explosion of scholarships and scholarships. In fact, there was an increase of 12 to 14 percent, i.e. a two-percent increase. – So something can't be true of these figures either. If it were the way you represent it, then there would hardly be a net effect on the budget either: If the scholarships have been extended to such an extent that all of this is suspended, then not much can be left. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You mix a few things there!]] Finally, what is also important to me is the following question: If you really want to double the number of students, it will not only need measures at universities. We know that in Austria we have rates of departure in higher schools, which are far below those of the analogue countries. The ÖVP also calls as one of its objectives to leave as high a proportion as possible of young people in dual training, apprenticeship training, namely 40 per cent, a figure which in no other OECD country can only be used as a starting point. These two objectives fall a little apart: On the one hand, as many as possible do not have higher education and dual training, and on the other hand, student quotas should be doubled. Where are these students to come from? In fact, if this is to be calculated, only those who come from vocational schools, from higher schools, are left who are not supposed to go directly into the profession, but who are to study. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Look at the education statistics!]] I don't really know if that's the target either. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: professional maturity test! Read the education statistics!]] If you are talking about the social situation of students in Austria – I would like to remind you again on this occasion that the report on the social situation is a bit overdue; perhaps you can do something to ensure that we do not have to wait a few more years – then I would like to tell you the following: As far as the situation in the school system is concerned, you know – I refer to the PISA study – that Austria has been told that social conditions are crucial for educational careers and educational opportunities in this country, that there is hardly any other country – it has been called Austria and Germany – where the social layer of parents, the income of parents, and the cultural needs and the cultural participation of parents is so crucial for the success path, the educational success path of children. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What do you think? - Nothing!]] Of course, the follow-up effect on the studies is because if these children leave school earlier, they will no longer get to the situation of being able to study at all because they do not have a matura, no access to the university. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What do you think?]] Therefore, it is necessary to increase the number of students, a package of measures at universities and the promotion of remote shifts from the start to the schools. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's it! What proposals?]] This is something that the Greens will continue to insist on in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7409	Mr Broukal has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7427	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I know you can also speak a little away from the agenda at the first speech, and I would like to do this briefly. I've been connected to this house for many decades, probably longer than most of you. Thomas Ortner was so kind to look up in the ORF archive: ==References== In May 1977, I was there for the first time in the top of this glass chateau, which is still as uncomfortable as at the time, and had the pleasure and the honour of attending a plenary session. And since I had to start as a young editor at the “Time in Picture 2”, I had the pleasure, much longer than the colleagues of the “Time in Figure 1”, who were already satisfied at lunch with the OTs of the major calibers, and also the pleasure of being here longer than the colleagues of the daily newspapers, who then also had at 3 p.m., on disaster days, of course not. At the time of the “Time in Figure 2” – and many of you may not believe so – the firm view was that 20 minutes of parliamentary reporting per plenary day would meet the Austrians’ interest. This was not easy work for those who spent a day writing, but it gave the seers of the ORF a much better picture of the work of this House than is given today in the short contributions of the “Time in Figure 1” and the“ Time in Figure 2. ” It may be that people's interests have changed in such a way that people can no longer feel that way. At that time, you were able to do it, and I'm telling you: It was enjoyable, though strenuous, days here in the House, and I heard speakers speaking, whose rhetorical qualities I still remember today with admiration. At least I'm looking forward to my new work here. I know a lot of you from my old job, and I want to get to know the conversation base I built up with you as ORF staff and moderator, even if you sit in other parts of the house than I do. The life of a Member of Parliament has a lot in common with the life of a journalist – I think I can say that now: First of all, not everything is said voluntarily; second, one is sent around the circle, and thirdly, one must be glad to get at least behind the hand that one or the other is still “cuffed”. [[Call the ÖVP: This is the case with the SPÖ! – What is this club?]] - Well, that's right, isn't it? Are you okay? Then I'll come and find you! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – So whoever says, he knows everything, I will be happy to turn to it. I'm making it easier in this way, too. But my first experiences here are not so bad anyway. I thought I'd see what happens when I call the Ministry of Economic Affairs and say: “Glory God” – three months ago I would have said: “Broukal, ORF”, I now say, “Broukal, SPÖ” – “I would like these numbers.” – So that was not very successful. [[Call to the ÖVP: Earlier he got it easier!]] It was better for me, I must say, in the Ministry of Finance, where Mr Winkler says: Of course!, and a few hours later I had the PowerPoint presentation that Mr. Finz and Grasser held a few days ago on my laptop and could use it in a lecture for which I thank very much. [[Demonstrative applause as well as bravo and super reputation at the ÖVP.]] You see, often the world is not the way it is presented at first glance: Support where you don't expect them – and where you think you're going to break open doors, concrete against which you clap. But you learn about it every day, and I've learned: I'll get everything I can't research myself from you in the future. In Austria, there seems to be some private knowledge of the government – and I am now slowly coming to my topic – and I have to say: This doesn't make my new work so different from the old one either. Just as, of course, as a journalist, one often needs very good relations in order to get documents made with tax money and to form administrative and ruling knowledge towards the subjects of this country, it is now also a Member. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that there is alleged to be a study of the tuition fees, the results of which the Minister of Education hears exclusively. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No,...!]] She tells us what she wants to tell us about it, but the SPÖ's request to get this survey presented in its entirety so that you can make your own image – how many respondents?, what exactly was the question? –, this request has not been fulfilled to this day. If I have entered open doors, I am very pleased. My email address is jb@netway.at. [[Sociability and applause at SPÖ and Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] – But please don’t bother me! Just important things, please! That's what I'm on the subject. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Now? That's incredible!]] – Mr Schweitzer! I have previously asked whether I should be allowed, and the President would certainly not have allowed it for a second longer than he thought it was appropriate. I would like to thank the President very much. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Further call of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] The rest, please make up your mind internally. Ladies and gentlemen! We have agreed silently on the content of last week's exploratory discussions on education. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Mr. Broukal! The President has not switched on his hearing aids.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – Mr Schweitzer! Mr President, I think that would require a corrective position. Please don't let me down now!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7544	You are cordially invited to continue your speech and get to the point. I'd be grateful to you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7565	So don't underestimate Mr. Prinzhorn! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Would you please now...!]] – Before that, I always feared: from the calls of the FPÖ. But I said, Now it can only be less annoyed because it's no longer 52, but only 18 intermediates, and that's right: [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens as well as cheerfulness with the ÖVP]] It's tolerable! Thank you, it's an improvement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We have agreed silently on what SPÖ and ÖVP have also spoken in terms of education during the last week, and I want to pay attention to that – but no more than our counterpart, Mrs Gehrer, who has observed: She has always reported in the newspapers a little along with how this thing went about. You are right if you have said that we have not moved on the question of tuition fees: We have remained with our No, probably for the same reasons that Mrs Gehrer had been moved to say no to study fees for a long time in 2000 – two days before it was supposed to have become a black and blue policy at the request of the FPÖ. However: In these negotiations – and more could be expected, I believe, from the first “beschnepper” of us – we have recognised that the state will benefit 130 million € from the tuition fees, which can easily be replaced. I think that was movement. We have been very moved, compared with the attitude of the ÖVP negotiators. You – I would like to say that – have not moved on this question at all! If I had been sitting on the other side of the table, I would have known where I would move without giving up my principle, because even if you need tuition fees and want: A little more intelligent and a little more just could be done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to tell you that before you say that it is not true, on the basis of three examples, and you will say afterwards whether it is true or not. Point 1: You know this as well as I do: If a person is a professional or a single parent or for whatever other reason life or the chosen lifestyle is only slowly moving on with his studies, he will nevertheless pay the full study fee every half year. This would be more just without any effort, for example by demanding only half the fee from professionals – foreign examples for this. Or: Yes, there are also people who earn so much money that they don't get a scholarship, but still study slowly, and who also pay the full fee, and there are foreign examples that show that even in this case you simply ask less for the fee because it is paid longer, so that the principle “an overall sum for a study” is respected. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Horrible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Bleckmann: You deserve so much that they don't get a scholarship!]] Point 2: It always happens that students simply lose half a year, and that is why – Mrs. Dr. Brinek – it is a matter of doubt – because in some cases the university does not manage to care for them optimally. [[Abg. Steibl: That will be improved!]] We know the examples for this: We saw the photo of the Tombola machine in the “Kurier” a few months ago, which decides whether someone gets a laboratory site. We know that the rector of the University of Vienna threatens the professor with a fee withdrawal if they do not give evidence in such a timely manner that a seamless progress of study is ensured. – I don't need to invent that, but I read it in the paper and see it as you do. In all these cases, the tuition fee shall in any event be cancelled for absence of study time. There would also be movement in place. Point 3: The study fee is not required by small earners, which is true, but whoever is only one euro above the scholarship limit is paying in full. From this point of view, the majestic inequality of a lack of law prevails. If I had been sitting on the ÖVP side of these rounds of negotiations, I would have presented proposals that would take more precise account of who could afford something. This would relieve many, and it would ask those more for the study to checkout for which 720 € are not victims. But there was no movement at this point in the talks with the ÖVP. All these things, as I believe, could be changed within the framework of the existing situation, but nothing changes the fact that for many reasons we believe that the tuition fees are a barrier that we prefer to abolish today than tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7666	As a Member of Parliament, Mrs Gehrer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7684	Mr President. High house! We have just heard Mr Broukal's first speech, the young speaker. [[Call the ÖVP: The Young People's Address!]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: It was good, wasn't it?]] I was asked by a journalist what I said to Mr Broukal that I would know him from the negotiations, and I said: I find him moderate. - I'm changing my mind. One of the “moderate” is that one also tries to reflect the facts, and that is also one of a journalist. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He was ignorant!]] To accuse me of having reported out of probes is a culmination of dishonesty! And to know that you're in favour of abolishing the tuition fees, I don't need any probes, because that's in the paper every day! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You don't need to break your head over what we should have said. [[Abg. Ing. Gartlehner: You are too instructive!]] I assume that you have not heard anything: that in the discussions – and now I report from the discussions – we have also said: We need to make some improvements, we need to think about hard cases, and we also need to consider whether we may need to make some changes in the case of working students. – These are further developments that are reasonable and correct. However, I believe that the fundamental considerations and the fundamental changes in education in recent years have pursued a very clear objective: greater autonomy and independence, a secure funding framework, performance agreements, quality assurance. And we have implemented this consistently in all areas. We have implemented this in the field of schools. We have given countries more competence, more competence to schools, more independence, more autonomy. We have transferred tasks to the National School Councils. In this context, I should like to clarify a misunderstanding: The discussion on national school councils is about whether we need the colleges of the national school councils, the colleges of the district school councils and what position the President should have. But what I certainly need for my federal schools in the countries, this is a regional education manager, who also has educational experience, and that is a school administration. So it is not about the authority, it is about the political institutions. I think we should really ask ourselves if we still need these political institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also implemented this strategy in the university field. The new university law is accepted, the implementation is under way, the founding conventions are elected. The individual board members of the university board are now named, the university councils are named. That'll be until 31. Januarys completed, and the planned implementation takes place. I really have a very big request to all those responsible in this area: Let us support the universities in their goal-oriented implementation! Let's do a accompanying evaluation! It is certainly right to ask yourself in some areas: What might you need to change again in three or four years? That is the case with all the laws. But: If we help with implementation, we make an accompanying evaluation, and then we ask: What else can we do better? Now on the question of tuition fees: It is said here again and again by the speaker that the Minister did not actually want her, because the Federal Chancellor did not want her either. In this context, we could blame ourselves for a lot of quotations. I could now point out who once said of the Greens that he could actually imagine them, Mr Van der Bellen. [[Abg. May. Posch: Your own position will not have been forgotten, Mrs. Minister!]] I could also point out who said of the Reds that one could actually give up the resistance or accept the tuition fees under certain conditions. I say to you: There are developments that simply highlight a different point of view and then lead to a different conclusion. We have experienced this development. We said first: We want to read study contributions – each one of you can read from me – for the studying pensioners, for the elderly and for the long-term students. [[Abg. May. Posch: What did you say, Mrs. Minister?]] But I have often explained this to you, because of the principle of equality. That's why we finally went through with it and said: We introduce the study contributions – we stand by them! – but we want to give support to all those who need support. And I'll tell you: It works! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Böhmdorfer.]] We have 199 526 students – more than in Bavaria and Switzerland. 40 781 students receive a total of € 156 million in funding. The study contribution shall be reimbursed to those who receive funding. And 70 percent of ordinary students are usually students. This means, of course, that universities offer students a good offer, and, of course, young people can study in the normal time. Of course, there are some cases of hardship, of course, there are the working students who are not in the normal study period. A great deal of thanks to the universities, which also deal with the funds we give them from the study contributions, is very responsible. 109 million schillings have been used to improve the study offer, so that the regular study time can be observed. Now to the statement that I would not issue a report. Whoever knows me, he knows: Anyone who asks for something in the ministry receives an information, receives the documents. Every four years, a report on the social situation of students is presented. The last report was voluntarily presented by me to Parliament in 1999. The next report is in March 2003 – every four years! – is ready and will, of course, also be made available to Parliament. Only: The report was commissioned in autumn, 3 300 students were interviewed. I received a first evaluation. This is done by the IHS under Dr. Felder, and it is concluded that the tuition fees do not have an adverse impact on the origin of the students. It's the same as before. Of course, we can say that we want to improve something, that's okay – then we talk about it. But I insist strongly: The study contributions are not barriers to study! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you want to study in Austria and have the necessary conditions, you can study! I really ask the opposition parties not to take a step back again and again, but to take steps together with us for youth into the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7823	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. The speaking time will be adjusted to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7842	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer is perfectly right if she thinks that some of the quotes from the opposition parties could still be brought to show that there has not always been a clear line here. – Mr Collegue Van der Bellen, sponge over it! But I think one should and must be shown in this debate – above all, I have the greatest interest to know, Mr Broukal, how you would have been working in your old metier, you would have had to report on what I am going to show now. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is Mr Niederwieser, who now – probably also because he already knows what is coming – wants to say goodbye from the hall – no, he is setting himself back – who spoke in 1999 when he was still a member of a government party, here and also in press conferences. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: No, I never know about you!]] – DDr. Erwin Niederweiser! He was then banished to the opposition bank on the basis of the voter's will, and he wanted to represent another line, namely against the introduction of the tuition fees, and has again spoken annoquently – as Mr Broukal did. Then there were elections again – the conditions have shifted, and the SPÖ sees again or saw again, depending on what date one is talking about, the possibility to come to the government. And Mr Niederwieser – Mr Broukal, that for reporting, which we are considering, in case you are still working in the old Metier – gave it on 11 November. ==References====External links== Erwin Regrets: The abolition of tuition fees is not at all a condition for SPÖs. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This is not a literal quote from me! That's not a quote at all!]] – This is Erwin Niederwieser’s quote. ‘No condition’. He may well imagine that there are still tuition fees for SPÖ government participation. So once that, then different, on 11. ==References====External links== - Yes, it's different. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Some become smarter...!]] - Erwin Niederwieser! It clearly depends on where the SPÖ is right now! – Whether in government responsibility, in opposition, in the hope of taking over government responsibility, or in the knowledge of the opportunity to play, depends on Erwin Niederweiser’s position on the subject of tuition fees. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think that this line is not really voted on by anyone, and I therefore consider it really important that many recognize that the SPÖ is not willing to bear responsibility, but merely expressing the opinion that is thought to be particularly good for party politics.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7926	Mr Dr. Niederwieser spoke on an actual correction. Mr President, you know the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7962	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I need to correct two things. On the one hand, the Federal Minister said that 70 percent of students complete the study period in general. – According to the statistics available to us of the Ministry, the proportion of the degree degrees in the minimum statutory study period is 7 percent, not 70 percent! - That's where you added a zero. On the other hand, Mr Schweitzer's comments. Mr Schweitzer has literally quoted me and said: Niederweiser is for – what was it called? .... I don't know the quote because it's not mine. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You'll know that!]] He said that I was in favour of relinquishing the requirement to abolish the tuition fees. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is a speech!]] – This claim is proven to be incorrect. This interview has been written literally. I said: If one party has four demands and all four call it indispensable, then there will be no negotiations, so there will be a break somewhere. – Where that will be, I never found out. I have by no means distanced myself from the tuition fees and I have also expressly justified this today, which is why we think this is the wrong way. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: A real confirmation!]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: But now is calm!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8040	Mrs Gehrer is speaking as a member of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8058	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say the following: According to a current survey, 70 percent of the students are now within the regular study period. - That was my statement. Not the degree degrees, but 70 percent of the students currently at the universities are within the regular study period.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8085	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 16/A to the Committee on Science and Research. 8. Point First reading: Proposal by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic, colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the National Council's Rules of Procedure (22/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8124	Finally, we reach the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8148	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After the debate on the tuition fees back to the Rules of Procedure and the Federal Constitution. Today morning was very often the talk of minority rights, of rights of Parliament, even of rights of animals – I now want to talk about other rights, namely the rights of citizens. This is a request concerning the return of popular desires beyond a legislative period. It is essentially a request aimed at strengthening and upgrading the direct democratic instruments we have in the federal constitution. I would like to make a few general political remarks about this, a few general thoughts and then a few special arguments. The general remarks: Since 1995, Austria has been a member of the European Union, and with this has shifted a lot: Many competences have migrated from Austria to Brussels, from the national level to the European level, but have not found a fully democraticised European Union. And, basically, we are already very much in arrears with two very important projects, namely on the one hand, as regards the democratisation of the European Union and also as regards the rights of citizens, on the other hand also with regard to the upgrading of direct democratic participation of citizens in the Austrian federal constitution. However, this discussion would be very important in any debate on the state reform, which, in my opinion, is not only about discussing the rights between the levels – between the federal government, the states and the local authorities; the removal of fees, tax collection – but also the question: Where can citizens talk more and directly influence and shape more? The special arguments regarding the passing on of popular desires are very comprehensible and lie on the table. It is simply not to be seen why a popular desire brought in a few months or a few weeks before the sudden collapse of a government should not be treated in the National Council, but others should. This is a great disparity. This is not based on an explicit rule of law, but on a reversing of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 46, namely the so-called principle of discontinuity – that is a very difficult word. This conclusion is derived from the fact that Members' requests during the next legislative period could no longer be dealt with, because these Members are no longer represented in the National Council. The people, however, are unchangeable, the people are always there. Why this principle – which is really a difficult word – is also applied to popular desires is actually not understandable, it is unfair. It is associated with a very large effort, also a very great financial effort for many citizens who are working for such a popular desire – we are thinking of the animal welfare people's desire, of the genetic engineering people's desire, of the women's people's desire. And then it fails because maybe suddenly a government can no longer work on it or that popular desire has only been achieved shortly before the end of a legislative period, so that it is no longer treated. Not even the discussion in the National Council on this desire is possible then! The decay of popular desire makes little sense either because a popular desire is one of the few direct democratic instruments that we have at all in the federal constitution and which are not strongly expressed anyway. Other states do this with much more courage – whether this is Switzerland or also Germany, where intensive discussions are being held, how to strengthen popular desire, how to force more intensive treatment in the National Council or the Bundestag in any form. We in Austria have also discussed this in great detail during the last legislative period. This should be at least a first step – you can then think about more, but at least that should be guaranteed. In view of the very, very great efforts of citizens, where they have made a lot of thoughts about content, have collected signatures for it, have ultimately spent a lot of time and commitment, it is the minimum we can do that we let popular desires go beyond the beginning of the next legislative period and then discuss it. One last point in this context: Indeed, in the government coalition between ÖVP and FPÖ, there was also a debate about how this would be with a compelling referendum from a certain numerical obstacle to popular desire. We have commented on this with a little scepticism, and I would like to explain this once again and make another proposal. Of course, the number of signatorys also depends very strongly on the public response of a popular desire, how many media partners find themselves. And we don't want it to become a distinction between good and bad people's desires, because some content is much more difficult to communicate to others much easier. All popular desires should experience good and serious treatment in the National Council and should not be differentiated on the basis of a certain sum. It would be important to bring all popular desires to a more serious treatment, and there you can think about many ways to think about many things. – That would be a first step at least once. In this sense, I hope that this request will be approved by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8212	The next speaker was Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8231	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a request from the Greens for the first reading, and a first reading provides an opportunity to make a few thoughts about a proposal – and I would like to do so here too. I understand the Greens' request in such a way that the political intention is to ensure that popular desires are treated in principle in the National Council. I can do something about this, and I am positive about it. In fact, during the legislative period which has expired, there has been a partial dissatisfaction between the treatment of popular desires. I can therefore understand that there is no doubt a need to think about it. However, whether this proposal by the Greens – by Dr Petrovic, Dr Glavischnig, Brosz, Friends – is the best way to live up to this political desire and these political considerations, I see this as a little critical and I am somewhat in doubt. I am also in doubt because you, Mrs Colleague, raised the principle of discontinuity, i.e. the principle that documents at the end of a law should be submitted to you. the period of grace has not been completed. That has a historical reason, but that also has factual reasons. These factual or content reasons are, of course, based on the fact that the National Council is being re-elected every four years, is being re-assembled, new mandates are coming, new majority are here, and the National Council should actually start to re-design itself. This principle, as such, I think is right, should continue to be laid down. The political concern that popular desire should be treated differently, because of the fact that this is not only a political request from mandaters, but also a request from citizens who have the right to vote, is of course justified. We will also do so because the electorate ultimately wants to have a political discussion in the National Council and also an answer from the National Council. It is already true that the Rules of Procedure also know other ways of dealing with popular desires, such as the priority over other requests and articles in the National Council. The People's Party will deal with this, and it will take a stand for it. Our President, the First President of the National Council, Dr. Andreas Khol, and also President of the Federal Council Hösele, as you may have followed, have launched a proper and good initiative in my opinion by encouraging them to carry out an Austrian Constitutional Convention in the form of an Survey Commission. I think that we will discuss this subject matter there, discuss it there, and also provide a satisfactory response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8279	The next speaker was Mr Wittmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8297	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens' request, which is being debated here, is actually in line with the SPÖ's view on this issue. I do not think it is true that popular desires should end with the end of a legislative period. In particular, this is not right if one wants to strengthen the instruments of direct democracy in many areas and has an instrument that is actually accepted by all the sections of the population and is actively supported by many sections of the population. It is not right even if it is ultimately not treated by those people who have been elected to treat these desires. What can a citizen do to ensure that the National Councils or the National Council are sound? What can a citizen do for one thing, that only because – for what reasons always – a government is imploding, like the latter, its legitimate concern is still not treated? . He cannot expect the political situation among the elected Members to change in such a way that the legislative period is shortened and that his concerns which he wanted to have dealt with for this legislative period can no longer be dealt with. It is neither his fault nor in the sense of democracy that this desire is no longer being treated. It thus appears that in this case we do not deal adequately with the legitimate concerns of the citizens. I believe that the willingness to take up state reforms or to make certain changes in the state structure should also be useful in resolving these mistakes in the current Rules of Procedure. In my opinion, this is a mistake, because, while the Members are changing, it does not change the concerns and not at all the people who want to have dealt with this issue. Only because the people in the National Council change, however, does not change the position of the population on this issue, especially those people who have taken active action for it. It should also be taken into account the cost factor generated by such mobilization of people in dealing with popular desire. These costs are practically put in the sand as soon as a new legislative period begins. This new legislative period It is not up to those who want to have dealt with this matter, but rather with us Members. This is, I believe, the wrong way. It would be easy to stop this abuse. I think we agree that this is a point that needs to be integrated into a state reform, a state reform or a democratic package, because there are already few instruments of direct democracy. The instruments we have here should also be taken accordingly and not make the citizens dependent on whether the same persons are sitting here in the National Council during the next legislative period or whether other Members have their concerns to deal with. In all cases, the citizen wants to have dealt with his concerns. The individual citizen, who is committed to a particular concern, does not care who treats it. He expects his elected representatives to deal with this problem. This must also be possible over a legislative period, since there are also elected representatives. This cannot depend on which people are sitting here in the National Council. That is why the whole thing is a matter that is fully supported by our side. I think you could extend this concern. We are still too far from the SPÖ because we want this to be extended to parliamentary citizens' initiatives, which have a similar background. That is why we should also create a system for citizens' initiatives. I've already seen my predecessor ready to talk about it at least. I believe that in the overall context of a comprehensive democracy reform, in the overall context of a comprehensive state reform, it would be necessary to take these steps because they would strengthen the confidence of the population in the elected mandates and in the treatment of their concerns.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8352	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8370	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals are in principle in favour of strengthening direct democracy. We are therefore in principle in favour of this request from the Greens. In our view, it is a shame that, on the part of the opposition parties, only punctual proposals are made in relation to the reform of democracy and in relation to the reform of the Republic, and less is seen as a whole. Above all, it is a pity that only these punctual proposals are made by the SPÖs, although the government between ÖVP and FPÖ has made comprehensive proposals in this area during the last legislative period. I recall our democratic package, in which a 15 percent clause for popular desire was already intended for a mandatory referendum. I would remind you of the proposals for a new federal division of competence, the strengthening of the constitutional autonomy of the countries, the election of letters, the reform of the Federal Council and the entire reform proposals of the former government. Mr Wittmann. You, in particular, would have been invited by the SPÖ to enter seriously into a discussion with the Federal Government on all these points in order to pass on the overall reform of the state, the overall reform of democracy and the parliamentary Republic. In principle, we liberals are in favour of establishing a Constitutional Convention at the Austrian level. We hope to have a summary of all the proposals so far, a new wording and finally results in all the areas, which we have been discussing for many years in the Federal Council, the National Council and beyond. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] In principle, this Green request is also an excuse for us, which we hope will be properly advised within the framework of this overall approach over the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8418	Mrs Petrovic. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. She's been talking for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8437	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! These announcements, one will bind a huge constitutional package, come to me with very mixed feelings, because I know many issues that have been discussed in this Republic for decades, for example, the re-codification of fundamental rights or the reform of the state. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has been guaranteed for many legislative periods, but it will not be done. Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, there is actually a very simple question, which is not as simple as some other questions, which can probably not be solved satisfactorily from today to tomorrow; but the question whether or not people's desires should fall by the end of the legislative period can be answered with a simple yes or no. If you think they should not fall, then I believe that the legal consequences are relatively simple. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would think that even the intentions of the Constitution do not conform to the fact that people's desires are treated differently depending on whether they had the luck or the wrong to have been brought in at the beginning or at the end of a legislative period. In particular, the exponents may not know this at all, because – and this experience we have already done – legislative periods can be ended early, and then it is certainly not fair to say to people who have invested a lot of time, effort and money to present their concerns to the House: Bad luck, now the legislative period is over, now you can start from the beginning again! That is to say, I think we should decouple this question from the other questions relating to the constitution that are certainly going to concern us even longer, and we should take some questions out of this constitutional stop and deal with them in advance. I also draw your attention to the following: The displeasure of the population or of those who have introduced a popular desire, which is then threatened by decay, is particularly affected by the strongest political groups, because they will say: They would be able to improve the legal situation. Just as was the case with the great popular desire, one has, of course, – and not wrongly – repeatedly brought serious accusations to the ÖVP. It would therefore be in the interest of the entire House to state here that it should not make any difference when a popular desire has been made. It must be dealt with by Parliament in the next legislative period. Another thing: They have said that the principle that Members' requests are being rejected has already made sense. – It may be possible for a new National Council to reject old requests if it no longer identifies itself with them. But it may also make sense to say: If applications are so important, they can also be brought in again! – Only the same cannot do the exponents of popular desires. We all know that it takes much more effort and money to bring together a large number of signatures for a popular desire than simply saying: Please, get five more people together and sign! – It’s not that simple! Therefore, I think that we are really talking about different things here and that a different treatment in this case is absolutely factually justified. We do not have to do with hundreds of people’s desires either, but the few people’s desires that have existed during the last legislative periods will probably be a new National Council if, with this “hypothec” – under quotation marks – he is burdened with wishes from the people, his new activity begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8500	As the last speaker, Mrs Mag. Grossmann in word. Time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8518	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Dear youth on the upper ranks! Each popular desire as a direct democratic instrument mobilises thousands of citizens to use their signature for a subject, for a concern, for something they believe in, to act personally or to declare themselves clearly against a subject matter. If, in a legislative period – for whatever reason – a popular desire does not find its deposition in the form of a law or is not dealt with sufficiently, this is a task for us, because of the democratic sensitivity of matter, to deal intensively with this issue. This task of the population cannot, must not end with the expiry of a legislative period. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, I fully agree with Amendment No 22/A by Dr Petrovic and colleagues, namely that people's desires, which were sent to the National Council, do not expire at the end of the legislative period, but, in such a case, continue to be treated by the National Council of the next legislative period. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At this point, however, I would also like to encourage the completion of the request concerning the treatment of parliamentary citizens' initiatives, in which the concern must also be supported by at least 500 citizens. Popular desires such as the Social State People's Desire, the Women's People's Desire, the genetic engineering, as well as the Temelín People's Desire have triggered an intensive public discussion process and this problem has moved into the awareness of the Austrians. In this respect, I am convinced that a popular desire will be successful even if it has fulfilled this function of conscious discussion of a subject in an open, fair discussion or has caused a valuable orientation in much of the population through such a discussion. Against the background of this quality of direct democratic instruments, it is therefore secondary – or in German “wurst” – whether it is the delegates of XXI. or the XXII. The legislative period is obliged to deal with the concerns of the base. If thousands of people are mobilized for a topic, then this must be a lasting signal that obliges us to a longer-term debate. Let us show people outside this House who are intensely concerned with politics that there is not only a life after the registration week for their concerns, but also a life after the respective legislative period! This is especially true of those people within this house who have actively applied for a signature among their sympathizers. You can't say on the one hand: Signed! and, on the other hand, allow these signatures to become worthless from one day to the next, so that it is only then made dependent on the parties' goodwill whether a concern is discussed in Parliament or not. People's desire is expensive, very expensive, and therefore we should not allow it to become frustrated costs for efficiency reasons either. But it's about more: This is the fundamental question that is certainly not easy to answer for all of us sent by the parties, because it is a loss of monopoly, though small. The question is: In addition to a party democracy, do we also allow for serious basic democratic elements? We will have to answer this question before the people, and I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Take this responsibility seriously!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8592	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 22/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-01-23-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8625	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 28/A (E) to 42/A (E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 21/J to 54/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be called up immediately at 3:12 p.m., i.e., for now. This meeting is closed.
