ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e1699	The meeting was opened. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, Peter Schieder, Dr. Caspar Einmund Dr. Evelin Lichtenberger. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e1739	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for State Defence Günther Platterwird by the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Ernst Strasserverstreit. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e1766	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e1860	Before I go into the agenda and make decisions, I would like to inform the House that yesterday, at a presidential conference which took place after the end of the plenary session, we agreed on a new procedure for the design of the budget debate. We are debating the 2003 budget and the 2004 budget in these days. The previous practice was that we held a debate over several days, every day then interrupted the session, resumed the next day and finished the votes. We have now come to the point that this practice raises problems with the Rules of Procedure, because in a debate a speaker can only speak for 20 minutes and only give two words. This would have meant that, especially for the smaller groups, the speaking time would have been enormously limited, and in addition, for the entire budget debate, only a urgent request, a urgent request and only a short debate could have been made. Yesterday at the Presidential Conference, we decided on the following new procedure: that we are not interrupting the session every day, but we are adjourning, therefore starting a new session every day. That is why every day there is the possibility for each Member of Parliament to speak for 20 minutes and make two speeches. In addition, every day there is the possibility to exercise minority rights or the control rights of the House, namely the possibility of making urgent requests, urgent requests and requests for short-term debates. There was agreement on this, and I would like to thank the members of the Presidential Conference for having been able to solve a difficult problem in agreement even after a long day. Is the word wanted for that? - That's not the case. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e1918	I now come to the formal communications. It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e1944	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question to the Federal Minister for Finance, Dr. Cap, prior to the entry into the agenda, of Dr. Cap, colleagues, regarding ‘more than €27 million for self-representation and advertising’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e1964	We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e1983	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block period of 10 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed for today’s session day, so that the following speaking times may arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 175 minutes, Free 120 minutes, Green 130 minutes. There is also agreement that the term of office for members of the government according to § 57 para. 8 GoG is not used. If the 20-minute speaking time is exceeded for each member of the government responsible or if the 10-minute speaking time is exceeded for each State Secretary responsible for the department, in the case of the respective parts of the federal financial legislation, the overdue speaking time shall be taken into account in each case at the time of the respective government group. The term of office of non-governmental government members or State Secretary shall at any rate be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the speaking time of Mr Vice-Chancellor is the general debate held on the occasion of the discussion of the upper organs groups and the Federal Chancellor's Office with departments, provided that the speaking time does not exceed 10 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (60 of Supplements): Bundesfinanzgesetz for the year 2003 and investments (112 of the supplements) 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (61 of Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2004 and Investments (113 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2044	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are the reports of the Committee on Budgets on Government Templates (60 of Supplements): Bundesfinanzgesetz for the year 2003 and investments (112 of the supplements) and (61 of the supplements): Bundesfinanzgesetz (Federal Finance Act) for the year 2004 and investments (113). There was no oral reporting. In the sense of a concerted procedure agreed at the Presidential Conference, the debate will be held in a part of the Upper Institutions and a part of BKA with services; a part of social security, generations and consumer protection; a part of the judicial system; part military affairs, a part of the economy and work, a part of agriculture, forestry, the environment and water management; part health and women, a part of the inside, a part of the external, part of transport, innovation and technology, a part of education, science and culture and a Other part of the financing ==References== The structure has also been given to the honourable Member in writing. The votes on the draft federal financial laws 2003 and 2004 will be held on Wednesday, 18. ==References== Top organs Chapter 01: Presidential Chancellery Chapter 02: Federal legislation Chapter 03: Constitutional Court Chapter 04: Administrative Court Chapter 05: Public Prosecutor's Office Chapter 06: Court of Auditors BKA with services Chapter 10: Federal Chancellery with services Chapter 13: Arts Chapter 70: Public performance and sport (for the 2003 budget)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2226	We now proceed to the negotiation of the “Top Institutions” section. Mr Gusenbauer spoke. I'd like to set the speaking time to him at 15 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2248	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Members of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The double budget of the years 2003 and 2004 must be considered, above all, against the following background: What contribution does this double budget make in this economically not very simple situation: a contribution to the growth in Austria becoming a stronger one, that we manage to increase employment and reduce unemployment? What contribution does this budget make to stabilising public expenditure and public budgets? And what contribution does this budget make, in particular, to the opportunities and opportunities that Austrians will need over the next two years? If I look at this double budget against this background, I will try to carry out a fair assessment, Minister of Finance, especially in the light of your announced objectives, including those in your budget speech. You, Mr Finanzminister, have pointed out that it is about achieving more growth, and your own budget and the accompanying notes are based on the fact that, on the basis of your budget, Austria's economic growth in the next few years will be 0.4 percent lower than that on the European average. It wasn't always like this: Over the last one and a half decades, Austria has had an economic growth significantly above average growth in the European Union. Now you give up on such a high growth and are modest at 0.4 percent less than the European average. Mr Finanzminister! This does not seem to me to be a very ambitious growth policy, but rather – quite the contrary! – the acceptance that Austria comes from the European trail of overcrowding on the European critical trail. This is not a shaping policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why this is so, you can also read from the figures you presented to us. For example, if this year's public investment in the federal government will be 40 percent less than it was in 2002, then that means nothing more than that the public hand will take back its responsibility for investment. If, as far as the development of purchasing power in Austria is concerned, precisely because of the budget accompanying laws adopted yesterday, wage income and pension income will not really rise, but at best stagnating, that means that even at the level of purchasing power in Austria nothing happens in the form of an additional incentive for economic growth. Considering what long-term growth factors look like, namely investment in education, science and research, one can see that the approaches they have chosen in the budget remain far behind the self-employed objectives. Therefore, these double budgets, Minister of Finance, are not in line with your announcement to do everything possible to promote economic growth, but quite the contrary: They make the biggest contribution to the fact that growth in Austria cannot develop better! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have always pointed out in your budget speeches in recent years that you have no options, because the zero deficit is the great objective that has to be set above all the other objectives. I remember that you, Minister of Finance, have already responded to several budget debates here in Parliament on proposals that the Federal Government should be active in investment policy in order to make a contribution to stronger economic growth, mostly by saying that all these proposals would endanger the zero deficit and therefore these proposals would not be relevant. It is interesting and remarkable, therefore, that you have literally said in your budget speech that “in a weaker economic phase, as we currently have in Austria, deficits in the government budget are quite useful”. Mr. Minister, have you slept the development of the last two years? We also had a difficult economic situation in Austria in 2001 and 2002 and that was your answer: We need to achieve the zero deficit and can therefore no longer afford to invest! The result of this policy was that in 2002 you did not reach the zero deficit nor respect your own budget path, but quite the contrary: The budget deficit has exploded! The budget deficit is also not the result of a shaping economic policy, but the result of the failure in the economic policy of the last two years, as you have not been willing to invest again and contribute to growth policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your insight, Minister of Finance, is a little too late. But the teaching money for this economic policy must be paid by Austrians, especially those who have lost their jobs in the last two years. Since you are always proud to point out that our unemployment rate is significantly lower than that on the European average, I must tell you: This is both right and important for Austria, but if we honestly analyse this question, then we must find that Austria has had a significantly lower unemployment for more than two decades than it is on the European average. But the key to this lower unemployment has been, among other things, a central conviction: In Austria, we have always understood economic policy in such a way that even in times of good economic activity, it is very difficult to get away from this socket unemployment. It was therefore crucial that, at the end of the 1970s and at the beginning of the 1980s, when unemployment exploded in other European countries, we pursued an economic policy which enabled Austria to minimize the unemployment of the base. This historical reference makes clear the following: The fact that we have low unemployment in Austria today is primarily the merit of your predecessors – and not your merit, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Let us take a look at the performance in the labour market policy of the current Minister for Finance: The most unpleasant thing is that, without prejudice to the lower unemployment rate in Austria, the Austrian unemployment rate in the framework of the European Union is the strongest. That is to say, there is a danger that in the current economic crisis, the unemployment of the base in Austria will rise, which, after a hopefully soon end of this crisis, will be very difficult. Mr Finanzminister, it would be your job to ensure that we do not reach the highest rate of unemployment in Europe, but that unemployment falls under the existing conditions, as some European countries, ladies and gentlemen, also bring together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Germany!]] I already hear from the ÖVP’s ranks the “cule argument”. You should obviously have more to do with Germany than with Austrian reality, because you – and that is blasphemous – do not understand anything but the argument in any economic policy debate: Let's look at Germany! As if Germany were the only country in Europe that could be used as a benchmark for Austrian economic policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: Tell me how you would do it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Red-green is very embarrassing!]] I have the impression, Mr President, that, when it comes to the Austrian economy, you are making it too easy. Faith Do you really think that the reference to Germany solves any economic policy problem in Austria? I'll tell you: It really does not solve anything, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: The comparison makes us sure!]] It is already an extraordinarily defensive attitude to be able to stand up to 15 states in the European Union at 14. The place lies not with the 13 countries which are at the forefront of economic growth, but with the only state in the latter place. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Where are their full-bodied announcements that we should be among the best three in Europe? Why Compare Are you not dealing with the Scandinavian countries and their economic successes, with those countries in the ranking before Austria? When it comes to making the future of Austria positive, you should compare yourself with those countries that make it better – and not with those countries that make it worse. This would be a much better policy for Austria than your constant reference to Germany! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A key point of these budgets – repeatedly presented by the Minister of Finance – is the beginning of the ‘largest tax reduction’ and the tax exemption of less than €1,000. – It is true that many people will benefit from this tax reduction. But have you ever considered the extent to which they will benefit? Half of all people who will benefit from this tax reduction will benefit from it with exactly 4 € per year, i.e. less than 40 cents per month. By contrast, the burden of increasing energy taxes, increases in fees, reductions in pensions now announced and the need for private pension provision are recognised: This so-called tax reduction is no more than a drop on the hot stone! It is by no means equal to the burdens that the Austrian population will have to bear over the next two years, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In your speech, Mr Federal Minister, you have often pointed out that a small economy has hardly any independent opportunities to stimulate economic growth. And I admit that this is also much more difficult in an internationalized economy than it was 30 years ago. Nevertheless, there should be one to think of if there are countries similar to or small in Europe, such as Austria, which, despite the same international conditions, manage to achieve an above-average growth. And there should be one to think that Austria only achieves an under-average. I am satisfied with the reference to this: We have to wait for the upswing in the United States!, not at all, because I have the impression that this is how “waiting for Godot”: You wait, you wait – and nothing happens anyway. However, politics must be entitled to tackle all the opportunities we have at state level to promote economic growth, and not to rely on and wait for others! This is the task of politics in these times! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One question you should also address in today's debate is how you will keep it with Austrian industrial companies in the future. The companies where there are still parts of state property are largely in an excellent economic situation and deliver excellent results, and privatisation has been a major contribution to this. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Thanks to the privatisation!]] But, Mr President, one can also push it too far, if there is no more public or Austrian participation in these companies at all, and if these companies become the playing ball of international corporations. [[Abg. Head: “Austrian enterprises” does not mean State participation!]] – We social democrats attach importance to the fact that the essential Austrian industrial capital remains in Austrian hands and there is no sale here, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm just saying, It does not always have to be public property, but it is essential that important Group decisions be made in Austria. [[Deputies Kopf and Dr. stupid:Eben!]] It is essential that the research and development tasks are carried out in Austria. It is essential that the industry services are carried out in Austria and that there is an industrial policy perspective in Austria. It is important not to allow individual businesses to become cash-cows international corporations, but gradually to lose the services and jobs. Therefore, Minister of Finance: Once again, consider whether you really want to place some of our ÖIAG stakes on the market for cheap money – or whether it would not be significantly better for Austria to continue to have control of it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2486	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Molterer. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. – Mr Klubobmann, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2505	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In the sense of a fair discussion, Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, I believe that it is also necessary to correct some of what has been postponed in this discussion not only by you, but in the entire discussion of the last days and weeks of impressions, I would say. Ladies and gentlemen! We are in Austria in a situation where we can speak of the highest level of employment that has ever existed in this Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There are almost 3.2 million people working in our country. Everyone who deals with economic and economic policy knows that social is what creates work, and that is why this situation is the best basis for social peace and social security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Among this correct picture of Austria is that last year we recorded the absolute record of company start-ups: Nearly 30 000 young people, men and women, have taken the step into independence. And I think that's also a quality sign for the mood in our country: It is worth becoming a businessman, it is worth taking this risk. This is a positive signal I feel here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Last year – I think that economic policy is a real milestone – we have achieved a surplus in the trade balance for the first time through sensational export success for our country Austria, ladies and gentlemen, because Austrian companies are [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is the result of an international development!]] We have had courage to take the step across borders, more than before, and because, I think, Austria, as a whole, has recognised that the enlargement of the European Union is a very great opportunity for economic and employment. Especially in the enlargement countries, a significant part of this sensational export success could be achieved. Ladies and gentlemen! In our country of Austria, however, we can also talk about it – and this also proves international studies – that our education system achieves top marks, best in international comparison. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: That's not true! This is the white untruth! That's a joke!]] And this is important if we are also talking about the future security of our site, because it can only be ensured by the quality of our heads. Ladies and gentlemen! This Austria receives, also as regards the issue of safety standards, top marks, international top marks for internal and external security. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: Wrong! Wrong! Read the study, Mr. Klubobmann, inquire!]] People can feel safe in our country, and, ladies and gentlemen, the people can feel comfortable in Austria too. We get top marks on quality of life in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: It's a joke to say something like this! That's something unscrupulous! Can't even read the studies!]] For example, quality of life can also be read from one of the most important future resources, namely water. This is the most important food, and how a policy can bring the necessary economic objectives of growth at the same time as security into line with the ecological objectives. The water situation and the quality of life policy are signs of this. Ladies and gentlemen! Our country Austria also gets top marks when it comes to the families. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Austria is the most family-friendly country in the world, I would say, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Yes, yes, we are paradise on earth!]] This is much more than just the question of family support per se: From my point of view, this is an important question for the families of the future. The future for the families means: The future for children, and the future for children, means to have a modern, dynamic, a life-worthy and future-oriented society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Yes, yes, we are in Schlaraffenland!]] Ladies and gentlemen! So it is when we talk about social security in Austria. Especially following yesterday's discussion and decision, I would like to say that, of course, even after this pension reform, Austria will be the country with the highest social standard – at least in Europe, and I think, in the pension area worldwide. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Gusenbauer, in the sense of this debate, it is also necessary and proper to highlight other pages. Yeah, that's what I'm very much for! Of course, we know that the issue of world economic development poses problems and does not remain without an impact on Europe and Austria. But if you have already addressed Germany, I can tell you where the problem lies: For Austria and the Austrian economy, Germany is one of the most important or the most important trading partners. The problem is that Germany, which once was the economic engine in Europe, has become a more slower economy in Europe today, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Auer: Unfortunately!]] – Unfortunately!, I say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this respect, the comparison makes us sure that we are in Austria, of course, in another, in a better situation, because – and I say that full of self-confidence – a better policy is simply made in Austria. That is also an essential difference! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am right that we should not deny the problems in the labour market, but also the labour market and the employment situation in Austria should not speak badly. I have heard something like praise from your words, because the labour market situation in Austria is really very good compared to other European countries. And if this indication comes from the opposition, then it's a sign that we're on the right track, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I do not deny questions and problems – we still have to talk about them – for example for older workers, but also for younger people on the labour market. Of course, we also have some question to solve in the structures. Of course, pension reform is a necessary measure to change structures so that the good is preserved. To change structures also means to clarify how the local authorities stand together. However, to change structures also means where the state is to withdraw from tasks to do so consistently. In this sense, of course, privatisation has also been a real step. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer, go to the VOEST! I am Upper Austrian and therefore I know much in detail about the earlier and the present situation there. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I was there!]] Talk to colleagues from the workforce, but also with management. Mr Gusenbauer! The VOEST is a prime example of the fact that it was right for the state to withdraw from business decisions, because it is simply not right for the state to take over tasks that others can do better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer, when you talk about privatisation, I have a certain sense of humor, because perhaps that might mean something about Bank Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We too!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Oye!]] – We do it differently, we do it better, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Austria Tobacco works! “Super”!]] An offensive policy – and the budget of this Federal Government for 2003 and 2004 is a solid basis for this – of course has several objectives, especially the objective of an offensive standard and growth policy, so that we can not only pursue the goal of full employment, but can also achieve it. We therefore also invest: About economic packages 1 and 2 are an investment at the right time in this offensive location and economic policy. We are also acting on the labour market. Just remember, for example, that reducing the additional wage costs for older workers makes a very important signal for the labour market, which, incidentally, has not yet been noticed, for example, led to a net increase in wages due to the loss of unemployment insurance contributions for workers and employers. This is the effect of reducing the additional wage costs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the right to qualification for older and younger workers is also the right signal. In the area of social security – I have already mentioned the topic of pension security reform – we will also need to make the necessary structural changes in the health field in order to maintain the best and most efficient health system. We are investing in security. We are therefore investing in security, because it is also an essential question of the well-being of our people, to have the right to live in one of the safest countries in the world, if not in the safest country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also take the objective of discharge very seriously. Mr Gusenbauer, I am annoyed when a tax exemption for income below €14 500 is put as “panuts” as a small item. – Do you know what that means? That 200 000 Austrians will not pay tax more than before! I think this is a really important economic and social milestone! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we also invest in education and the environment. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Everything folded!]] [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: That's a shame!]] I think that with the eco tax on the one hand and the climate package on the other, the right signal is also set for the environment and for ecology. These budgets, ladies and gentlemen, have also been prepared in all seriousness and caution, taking into account – admittedly – the not easy economic situation. Professor Helmututh Kramer of the Austrian Institute for Economic Research confirms that the budgets naturally take account of the economic situation and the dampened growth expectations, but at the same time says that this budget also provides the right impetus for employment, for the economy and for infrastructure. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Wrong quote! Citation right!]] In many discussions, which are also led by the opposition in this House, I often cannot resist an impression, ladies and gentlemen – that which is repeatedly demanded on the expenditure side must be earned first – but sometimes I have the impression in your opposition that the budget will be seen as if it were a banknote filled in heaven and emptied on earth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Close the control loops!]] No, ladies and gentlemen: The budget is, of course, an important booster for the site, an important booster for the economy, an important booster of employment, an important booster of security, an important booster of the environment and sustainable orientation. However, this budget has also been drawn up out of responsibility for feasibility and, of course, it also aims to relieve citizens of taxes and taxes. So it is a budget of responsibility, a budget that this Federal Government, which has the courage to take responsibility for the future, has rightly and rightly prepared. Thank you for that! This is a solid basis for business and work in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2912	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Kogler. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2931	Mr President. High house! Allow me to request a speaking time of 15 minutes; Mr Molterer has animated me to do so. But first of all, I would like to welcome the members of the Government Bank, the President of the Court of Auditors and the ladies and gentlemen of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr Klubobmann Molterer, it is quite surprising how to change a political role, I almost want to say that it can lose its analytical capacity. That is worrying, but at least that corresponds to my perception, and I really appreciated you with your contributions, which I was allowed to hear as long as you held a ministerial office. Something has happened, but that may be a topic of its own. Or it has happened that you may have borrowed from the Minister of Finance, on whose budget speech we might have to take in today, instead of starting the attempt at how you might have done this to imitate him. A little more with the pathos of a religious-cultural act, something similar to a small sermon, a few reciprocitys and applauses, but yet he uses it – that, be it not bad for me, is not a budget debate! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr. Oberlehrer!]] Let us refer once again to Mr Finanzminister's budget speech – which may at first be, let us say, the better point of orientation – and let us take this speech away from the 'advertisements' which have already been sufficiently honoured, and let us see what remains then. What's left? - Not much, that's the problem! It seems to me that the obvious attempt to present the situation in such a way that at the end of such an analysis – on the ads we will be dealing with separately today – there is quite a requirement to legitimise that neither the Federal Government as such nor the Minister of Finance – except for the ads – have nothing in particular to do with the given situation. [[Call the SPÖ:Insect!]] This is the conclusion of such a budget speech if we want to recall it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now I am surprised that we find ourselves in the situation of having to deal with these things because I have assumed that at some point the first speakers will have the time to really address what is going on, namely the 2003/2004 budget. In any case, we should talk about the alleged tax reform in 2004 because that would have direct reference to the figures we find there. Mr Molterer, you have managed not to say anything about that. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: You didn't listen!]] Maybe we'll go through a few points together and look for differences and similarities. I have to start with the differences, precisely at the point where this pressure of legitimacy is being produced – a self-force to do nothing in the end. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: Where were you?]] Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor! Mr Minister for Economic Affairs – he is unfortunately not present! I have made the effort to look at your speeches on economic and budgetary policy in the last two and a half years, and I must say that it is always the same image that you convey, although reality has long changed. You're always talking the same thing, something can't be right! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Your speech is not so properly prepared today!]] We do not necessarily need to understand: ideological struggle vocabulary, here neo-liberism, here Alt-Keynesianism or something, that is not my intention, but somewhere – and that is nothing wrong in politics – is behind the alleged analyses and the resulting consequences, something like ideology. If I count this together and divide what you actually want to say – in my opinion at least – then the following results: The reality in Austria is particularly great! Although the international situation is bad, we are still great! Everyone is surprised at how this can stay so great, where it is supposed that nothing can be done here. – I do not agree, and I also tell you how this is resolved. The truth is as often in the middle, you will not be able to clear it out with your ideological accesses. On the one hand, it is true that there is only more nationally limited scope for economic policy to act. – At this point, we should note that budgetary policy, of course, is first economic policy, second redistribution or distribution policy, third investment policy and so on. All of this you are ignoring, you have to say, if you look at your contributions, in particular the current budget speech of Mr Finanzminister. – Therefore, it should not be surprising at the end of the day that the budget now available here, which I say very carefully, can hardly be seen in any control attempts or impulses of economic policy. The worst thing about it is: You don't want that either! There, too, the sermons of the clubman Molterer no longer help. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Only a single bond from the past, which shows this: You have spent the longest time with relatively much effort – at least with more effort than you have done in actual economic policy – initially claiming that there was no crisis. We remember the year 2001. Not even “The Economist” has you clearly been able to convince. The Federal Chancellor spoke of stagnation, but at a high level. – Thank God we still have this good situation in Austria! But it is crucial for the analysis of a government's economic policies: What causes it to do with change? And the changes in the data you always strapatize is by far not as rosy as the absolute level. This, of course, concerns growth as such, which is defined in this way, but it also affects the change in the unemployment rate. They are always going to house that the unemployment rate in Austria is relatively favourable. No one will object to this, the question is only: Is that the result of your policy? Or is it the result of your policy that this is rapidly getting worse in Austria? Elsewhere, this quota stagnates or, as Mr Gusenbauer said, it even improves. That's what you need to be measured by! You cannot constantly list any global data here, and with a benchmarking chewer, you can negate the economic policy debate. That doesn't lead to anything! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But if it is true that the situation is not so rosy – which you could confess quietly, because no one will ask you to act there alone – then certain measures would subsequently be required. You don't want these and that's why you don't make the first step at all. But this game can no longer work, because the reality is now such that you have to admit it yourself: There is something like a stagnation-like situation, and the only question to be answered now is: What does a small country like Austria – despite its small size, if you like – have on economic policy opportunities? Therein lies the difference between a misguided analysis and one that addresses this question. This is the difference between your government policy and what we are proposing. I am now making it quite clear that the opposition, at least the Greens would have quite different approaches to the 2004 budget – let us remain only with this one – and with regard to the corresponding tax reform measures; unfortunately, I have to say in the conjunctive. With you, it's perfectly clear: In your opinion, the 2004 budget may be strictly restrictive. Mr Molterer, you have misquoted Mr Kramer, I am sorry, but I am not entirely quoting it is also wrong to quote it. Of course, the 2004 budget assumes restrictive effects. This is also the problem: Everyone realizes that something needs to be done now. And what are you doing? – God’s grace, perhaps you would have said, or how about the Heaven-Bankomat? God's grace is that the automatic stabilizers can still work. Great! Bravo! Do you want to prevent that? You can then march around in Europe as an economic zombie, which will not bring you further. The fact is, you have to show possibilities. What would be possible? Of course, it would be possible to take control of a certain volume of financial resources – I say this quite consciously and offensively – because this has nothing to do with increased debt policy, which was mentioned earlier in three interlocutory calls. [[Call the ÖVP:Sonder?]] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. – It is then necessary to take economic policy measures if they are needed, and not to distribute tax sugars if the whole economic policy in fact only leads to an electoral budget cycle that is committed to intensifying economic problems rather than solving them. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What means?]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: What about economic policy?]] If it is true that we can take control of tax money in this legislative period, be it to force certain expenditures that you always claim to be made – in fact, there are balance-sheet extensions that you sell as an issue, for example in university policy – then please, at the right time, and this would be now, 2003 and 2004, so that both consumers and companies can adapt to the fact that something is happening. This would not only be real political, but also psychologically very important, because that would have corresponding consequences. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So if it is possible to promise by 2006 – and you do so, at least to this day, Mr. Finanzminister – 6,5 billion tax leave, for whoever, that would be the question, then we will tell you: Don't take your mouth so full, but take it You at least have the money in your hand, which is realistic and sensible! Take advantage of a stage of tax reduction, but target it! This only happens in homeopathic doses, I don't want to deny it, but that's too little. The fact that those levels of income, which have so far only been affected by your tax policy, should also have some of these tax cuts, has two effects: firstly, a meaningful and just distribution policy effect, and secondly, if we are in the economic situation, at least in part – not 1 : 1 of course, but at least in part – an economic-invigorating effect. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: This is a contradiction!]] Why Refuse Are you aware of this simple fact that the lower levels of income cannot have any relief at all because they have not yet paid any tax? That's quite clear! They cannot therefore benefit from these measures either. And these are much more than those affected by the measure, with an income of between 900 – I say now monthly – and about €050 tax-free. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] – This measure will have an impact on about €3.5 million, Mr Commissioner, and then you will talk about it. Now, the simple access to this component of the negative income tax would be extended in such a way that a similar amount – we have calculated an amount of € 250 million, which I think is quite reasonable – will be made available for these lower levels of income. This is technically quite possible, but it is not done because it does not fit into your ideology. That's the problem. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That would have, because you're just shaking your head, actually doing something about the improvement of the so-called little people. [[towards ÖVP]] You obviously don't want that, but you have to represent it yourself. By the way, it would be useful to really improve half of the income stakeholders, which is also possible, but not at 4 € per year, as was done, but so that it is also noticeable, and that we then save ourselves a major announcement for the year 2005. You cannot know what is in 2005 at all today; I would congratulate you on doing so. [[Abg. Scheibner: A tax reform anyway!]] The economic forecasts you have used for your budget calculation will be revised every three months, down – not that I blame you, you just don't want to react, I'm throwing that before you! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Now, in this situation you are going – next point I have to criticize – and talk about capitalisation – super, that's what we've been saying for 20 years now – talking about something happening now. Wrong again! [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you know it anyway! It is not a promotion of equity if there is the possibility of de facto tax-free collection of the money so set aside after seven years – let us say so. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You have even less idea than the...!]] It is quite clear what incentive mechanisms you are creating here: Perhaps the operating balance is temporarily improved, but you create a massive incentive that the money will end up being taken out. And in my opinion, this is tax premiums for entrepreneurs, which has nothing to do with investment incentives that you announce here. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Nor will the future savings of the Minister of Finance, which we will soon be able to accept again, change nothing of this simple understanding. [[Call the ÖVP:No idea of the economy!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: That was nonsense!]] Last point: Mr Molterer has once again stressed the need for ecologisation. What you have here in this budget with the budget accompanying law underlying it...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3194	Mr Missethon, I have not heard the word 'fathom'! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon makes a defensive hand movement.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: That was me!]] Please, Mr Mitterlehner. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: But it was nonsense!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: But it was not very wise, Mr President!]] Please continue, Mr Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3254	I'll tell you: The greening of the tax system would be a useful thing. It is a perfect agreement. The problem with the proposal that we have here is that the idea is not only done good, it is actually being betrayed. And that's what you're responsible for. What is really being triggered is the special improvement of the agricultural diesel. This is a nonsensical measure, be not angry with me, it has nothing to do with ecologization, but that is the opposite of it. Also to be You do not achieve any special steering effects with your actions because you do not even get into the subject. Ecological tax reform means structural reform, as the name says. And for this to happen, for several years, it is quite clear that you would have to amass a larger volume, introduce it in stages and in return – now you listen, Mr Mitterlehner! – reduce payroll taxes in such a way that this becomes noticeable. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: But there are no more payroll taxes!]] That's what happens when you refinance it. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Mr Colleague, there are no payroll taxes anymore!]] We are already ahead of the Chamber of Commerce with our measures because our volume here is much more than what you are even promoting. But you have to counter-finance, that's the point. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Ah, you want to introduce her!]] And just leave it out, you leave it out, as in many other areas, where it really is about future policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will talk about it again, and sometime at the end of the stage we will see that the Greens have kept right. In the future, it will be increasingly important that the Greens can also get right and implement it. You'll see how this goes on. It may not take so long for the situation to occur that you will all be very happy that the concepts of the Green entrance will find in any constellations. If you want to tighten up the budget speeches of Mr Finanzminister and let a single advertising announcement apply – which he then has to say more or less secretly, because otherwise it will no longer succeed – you can say: For everything that's going to be ambushed: Green makes it good again! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] And then we'll be able to talk again. For now, the Minister of Finance should explain what his budget speech has had to do with reality and what this budget has to do with the real problems to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3339	Mr Mitterlehner insisted on the “failness”. - I'll give him a call for order. Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 15 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3363	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen' lawyers! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler, thank you very much for the nice bruising you have offered here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The next time, hopefully, Professor will speak again. Van der Bellen, because there are at least content approaches to react. It should also be possible to have a discourse in the debate, but if this continues, at least the speakers of the opposition will leave the air even before it has started properly in this budget debate. Mr Finanzminister! I know that this federal government's budgetary policy is a good one, but that it is so good that the opposition is so little in favour of it that I would not even have believed it. Congratulations! But you too would have deserved more discussion in this debate. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In fact, there is little to be done in the second legislative period of a government led by ÖVP and FPÖ, but since 2000 it has been a principle of a budgetary policy. The objective is a balanced budget beyond the economic cycle, but also a simultaneous growth policy with a clear set of priorities. One has to remind again and again of what happened at the beginning of this budgetary and government policy: a difficult, very difficult recovery course. We had to work out a piece that was left behind by the predecessors who pursued an open wallet policy – but not for the benefit of taxpayers or the population, for which a careful budgetary policy would actually be in place, for which the Federal Government would be responsible, but only to give constituency, gifts for its own protected areas. This rehabilitation has been successful, ladies and gentlemen. With the zero deficit reached in 2001, it has been the case for the first time for decades that the public hand does not spend more than it takes. That was a success of this federal government! With this renovation, it was also possible to create scope again, especially at a time when the economy is giving us all the problems and in which, as I have to remember last year, due to natural disasters, it has been necessary to help the affected population really noticeably – and not so in Germany, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. I know you don't want to hear these comparisons, but you have to draw these comparisons, because Germany has always been the parade example you have quoted: a socialist-led government, even with the coalition model you want. Mr Kogler, too, wanted to startle us earlier, when he said: Green makes it good again! – So that, please, really not! The example of Germany, which you do not want to hear, shows where it leads. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It leads to budget deficits that explode and, as a result of which, one no longer has room for manoeuvre, when it is necessary to put in place invigorating measures and where it is necessary to help the affected population. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Of course, you don't want to hear it, but we have to spend 7 billion € per year alone in these years! [[Call the SPÖ:Go!]] There will be God's thanks now, but we must spend this amount alone for the interest burden on the debts you've accumulated over the past 30 years. [[Call the SPÖ:And the ÖVP!]] – Yes, of course not. You alone, but the Finance Ministers have all asked you from SPÖ, and they have done so that the year does not have twelve months, but has 13 months, at least when it comes to asking the economy to cash. That was your budget policy! That's what you brought together! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At the same time, you have piled up a mountain of debt! What could we do if we didn't have this interest rate? [[Abg. May. Hans Moser: What are you talking about?]] - What am I talking about? Where did you live until the year 2000? [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] Have you contributed all this to how the money has been spent with open hands, how have cuts been made over and over again, and – because we discussed the pension reform yesterday – savings packages have been re-octrorated in the years 1995/1996, with zero percent pension increase? Ladies and gentlemen! There was a burden on the other hand, only to keep the budget deficit half-way in the short term so that one can continue wasting – but not structural reforms. They have not made fundamental, forward-looking reforms, but only budget cosmetics. And a few years later, we were again confronted with these problem areas. That is what I am talking about, honourable Member. But you don't want to know that anymore, because it's been a few years. We have corrected this, and you should admit that in a positive way. You should admit once that this federal government... [[Abg. Silhavy: We have the highest tax burden since this government existed!]] Ever since this government existed? – Well, then you will agree to our tax reform, which we will bring into force at a first stage in 2004 and which will include a total of €3 billion at the stage of 2005 – the largest tax reform that has taken place in recent decades! Why are you against it? – A bad conscience may move to some kind of intervening call, but it should also lead to a return to the government and consider whether it would be better to support the government’s positive budgetary policy and also to make some of its own suggestions for improvement. But just as we have not received a single amendment from the Social Democrats in the pension reform, they will not make any constructive, positive proposals here either. It is, of course, unpleasant for you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, especially in the areas controlled by you, when we say: economical administration – for example in the public service – reduction of public service planning posts; public service, ministries, administrative units; also the institutions of the countries it is considered to be service stations – and not as authorities where the citizen is treated as a bitter! It was revealing, ladies and gentlemen, what you said yesterday in connection with the hardness fund for the pensioners of small pensions. You said that the citizen would be made a beggar because he made a request! [[Abg. Silhavy: Then why don't you give him a legal claim!]] – We do not see a citizen as a bitter, when he makes a request for something he has a right to, namely a discharge! [[Abg. Silhavy: Why don't you give him a legal claim?]] [[Abg. May. Worm: A feudal system you want to do!]] You may downgrade in the administration and where you are in power, for example in the Federal Capital of Vienna, the citizen to the bitter by pretending as if the party were to grant the public funds. – Not the party grants public funds, but it is the state as a service provider to set the framework conditions for the development of citizens, the economy and society. [[Call the SPÖ: The slug speaks as he thinks!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Then why don't you want to make a legal claim?]] – These are our starting points, ladies and gentlemen, which, of course, you do not want to understand from your ideological point of view. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, we do not want – and this is noted here – to start a savings course in accordance with the motto “Rasenmower”: All right! Drive in and reduce by means of the computing pen! – This would not be the policy we have to support here, ladies and gentlemen and Minister of Finance. It is necessary to set priorities in these areas as well. Since the people's lawyers and also the President of the Court of Auditors are present here in the House today, and in the debate we are also concerned with the Supreme Institutions, we - and especially we as representatives of the people, as parliamentarians - also have to deal with the question of whether the working conditions, the conditions for these institutions, which are also so important to us as parliamentarians, are sufficient. We will also have to discuss this, and I assume that we will be able to make and propose some kind of improvement here too, because this – for example, the successful work of our lawyers – is service for the citizen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also a service for the public when the Court of Auditors examines – the “unpleasant” check; we know that all those who have already been subject to examinations. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's why we don't wait for the reports! They're so unpleasant, the reports that you don't even wait for them!]] But these tests are necessary because the citizen also wants to know and should know what happens to his taxpayers' money. Here too, it is necessary to create and ensure the framework conditions for optimum work. It is also necessary – I have just used the term “guarantees” – to see the country’s security as an important priority: social security – and I believe we have taken important steps here too – but also security in the area of executive and defence. Here too, I believe, one should not cut down on an attempt to reorganise or reduce the budget, but it is also about maintaining and improving the ability to act on the basis of tasks. Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely in this direction that the budgetary policy of this government goes into focus, and that is what we see in this Federal Finance Act. Focus on research. – Either you have not read it, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, or you just want to see it quite differently: For research there is additional € 600 million. [[Call the SPÖ: What?]] €1.5 billion in 2004 for research projects! . Read it, Mr Collegue in the previous row! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] This is an increase of 24 percent since 1999 when you were still responsible. 24 percent more in future ideas, in research and development, which will also be important for the development of the economy and our society of the future! In 1999 there were €7.5 billion for education and science. – In 2004: 9 billion €! The funds for the universities are doubled, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Brosz: Now the filth is back! There's no such thing as that!]] – What does that mean? Get rid of that once! [[Abg. Brosz: This is the extension of the balance sheet! There's no such thing as that!]] Look Once you've got the numbers on it! These are the realities – and not your propaganda, which you put in the foreground here. For infrastructure tasks, € 2.8 billion is available. Never has so much been spent in Austria for the expansion of the infrastructure. For labour market policies it is €4 billion, for family benefits €5 billion, ladies and gentlemen! This is also a clear signal to the priorities of the Federal Government that families in this budget are one of our priorities, that we want to continue here also the social security of families for which we have made a first step with child care money, because that is also a core of society: a functioning family structure with a social security! – You should recognize that too, or do you have a different ideological view here? A few comments were also made on economic promotion: We confess that not the state is the best and most offensive employer or economic promoter, but we say: The state has, also in the field of the economy, the framework conditions to create – everything else makes the entrepreneurs. We can be proud, especially in the small and medium-sized areas, that we have innovative, excellent entrepreneurs who also trust something that also wants to be active internationally. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: The mood among the entrepreneurs is very bad!]] We must support them and take away all the beatings and obstacles that hinder them, ladies and gentlemen from social democracy! You also have a lot to do in the federal states you led, because many of the bureaucratic barriers are in the country. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: The worst mood among entrepreneurs for ten years!]] – Not the worst mood, but the best mood for companies that have confidence in this federal government and who are very happy that there has been no return to this social democratic thinking, with which you have also made the entrepreneurs into bitters in the party headquarters, also in the public sphere. Member of the Gusenbauer has admitted thanks to God that Austrian participation should not necessarily mean State participation. – Of course, therefore: Let us see that in Austria, too, these participation structures will become possible in those enterprises in which the State still has shares! But when it comes to economic promotion, you should recognise that we will carry out a reduction in additional wage costs, that the profit not taken will now benefit tax – a very important measure to promote investment! – and, as I have said, this nonsense, 13th. Sales tax date, abolished. These are direction-setting measures – especially now when it comes to helping companies get out of this economic flaw. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of relief to taxpayers too. It is true that the tax and tax rate in Austria is very high, too high. That is why we acknowledge – and this was an important issue for my group in recent months and years – that we are implementing a tangible, truly noticeable tax reform: with a volume of €3 billion, with the first stage becoming effective in 2004. 200 000 Austrians in addition – Klubobmann Molterer has already said it – it will not have to pay any taxes in this area. 1.6 million workers will benefit from this. More than 700 000 pensioners will benefit from this tax reform – this was also a follow-up to yesterday's debate on the pension reform here. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the priorities in this budget. You should accept this positively! You should make positive contributions here, but you should not pretend that everything would be bad, as if you knew everything better. [[Abg. Reheis: But you know everything better!]] We still have too good a memory of the 30 years of waste policy – unlike you; in this respect you seem to really have a short-term memory. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister! The budget, savings, financial policy should not be self-evident, but rather the means to: Resources for the purpose of creating the framework conditions for our society, for the population, for the economy, so that they can develop themselves – for in a liberal society, in a liberal society, the individual knows for himself how to establish his sphere of life, how he can benefit from the opportunities necessary to continue. The state must reduce the barriers. It must promote wherever it is necessary, and it must ensure social security where this right of opportunity is not given. I believe that this double budget in 2003/2004 is an important guide that shows in this direction. As a parliamentarian, we are committed to this course, and I assume that this positive development, this positive budgetary course, can be continued for the next few years, if not decades!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3650	Mr Brosz spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3671	Mr President. Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner has just claimed that in 2004 education expenditure and expenditure on education, science and research will rise from €7.5 billion in 1999 to €9 billion. – That’s wrong! The big one... – Now you say back there too, that's not true?- Oh, my God! [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3709	The speaker is speaking. Please don't talk to him in the neck – that doesn't like a speaker!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3730	This is incorrect insofar as most of these additional expenditures are a consequence of the extension of the balance sheet by the disseminating of universities and actual expenditures in 2004 will amount to €8.2 billion. This is slightly more than in 2000, because there was a large increase from 1999 to 2000. [[Abg. Scheibner: (keeping a graphic in height) Look! That's how it looks!]] Klubobmann Scheibner also claimed that in 2004 the university budget would be doubled compared to 1999. – That too is incorrect. This is also the result of the extension of the balance sheet. Rather, it is true that expenditure is declining in 2003 and that in 2004 the level of 2002 will be regained.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3773	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). He's got a speech time of 20 minutes. If he speaks longer, the Austrian People's Party's speaking time will be deducted. [[Call at SPÖ:From budget?]] - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3798	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will stick to this speaking time. – First of all, to go back to the truth a little where it is: Of course, the budget contains exactly what Herbert Scheibner called the figures. What you have actually corrected, Mr Brosz, I do not know. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: So please, if you continue the shame now, then you really have to...! Even the Gehrers have corrected the Minister of Finance!]] Even if you calculate the balance-sheet effects you need, next year universities will have 130 million € available – and that is now not God's bet, but that's a lot of money, and we're proud of that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, Ladies and gentlemen! Alfred Gusenbauer rightly pointed out that comparisons should not only be drawn with Germany, but should be compared with the best. That is absolutely right, and it is also our common goal to reach the top 3 in Europe within the next few years. In some areas we are already: As far as employment is concerned, for example, we are among the best three in Europe. We have one place in environmental quality. We have one place in educational expenditure per student – this is a very important criterion. We're the safest country. We are in one or two places as far as corporate investment is concerned as a percentage of gross domestic product. So there are a whole series of things you can really be proud of. This is not only the case now, but it is actually a long-term location advantage that Austria always had and hopefully will always keep. It is true that we are not alone in the world, that we have some great difficulties through networking. Today we are an open economy, 50 percent of our income must be achieved in international competition. If countries such as Germany, Switzerland and Holland have zero growth, of course no one can expect it to have no retroactive effects on an open economy like Austria. But it is quite interesting to see that we have improved significantly in some areas. Mr Kogler is right if he says: We need to use the room we have! – And we have done so, I believe, also in some interesting areas. As an example, I should like to briefly explain the following – an important criterion, because it concerns people directly –: What does the situation look like when it comes to the placement of unemployed people? In 1997, the average mean duration per unemployed person was 131 days. That is, every unemployed person has on average taken about 130 days, 131 days to get a new job. – In 2003, this number is 103 days. This means that through the reform of the labour market service, and through many technical possibilities and also better quality of care, the average length of stay in unemployment has been achieved by a whole month. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That's interesting, ladies and gentlemen. This is interesting because it also explains why we are about better than Germany. This is otherwise unexplainable: West Germany, Bavaria, Baden-Württemberg or North Rhine-Westphalia are strong, economically strong countries. So what is the secret, that explains that in Germany the unemployment rate, not only because of the new federal states, but also in the West of Germany, is so high compared to Austria? – This is one of the answers to this question: That we carried out the reform of the labour market service in good time, by the way, together with Jolly Hesoun, who was then Minister of Social Affairs and Labour. I was his co-negotiator. – I think this is a very important example, and these are the elements on which we can rely. Or take, as a second example, the following case, which is likely to interest the economists: We always had a huge disadvantage over the Federal Republic of Germany when we issued bonds. If I remember correctly, the interest spread was about 35 basis points at the time I became Federal Chancellor. We've got it in these days, right on 21st. ==References====External links== It was planned to generate a volume of 3 billion €: However, this bond has been overrun in such a way that the entire story was closed within one day. We could easily have sold € 10 billion, but then went to € 5 billion, the price of coupons is 3.8 percent. The interesting thing about this is that the Republic of Austria, the first state in Europe, has succeeded in issuing a ten-year bond to swap terms like the benchmark bond – that is, Germany. That means: We have completely caught up with the disadvantage that we had three years ago and which was quite expensive from the volume of money! These are things to which you can truly congratulate Karl-Heinz Grasser and Alfred Finz from your heart. This is a real success, and the taxpayer feels that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And if Standard & Poor’s, not anyone, but those who – thumbs up or down – decide how to evaluate a country writes: ‘Austria has succeeded in becoming a European leader in terms of fiscal consolidation. ..., the turnaround since 1998, when Austria had the highest general government deficit among EU sovereigns, has been remarkable.”, that’s a real success! – That’s not what we invented, it’s not a propaganda kitchen, that’s the hard reality in the markets. I believe that even at a difficult time when it is not easy to make budget consolidation and growth policy, it is quite possible to mention this on such a day, and we are proud of it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But I am not saying this now to give the impression that everything is great – not at all! I know exactly where our problems lie, and I am the first to say so. And the question: What can we do to grow stronger? 100 percent right. That is the crucial question. Anything else, all the wishes that are expressed – even stronger tax relief, even more for this or that – can only, honestly, if we have growth, Mr Kogler. The question now arises: How can I generate this? That's not because we want it. Everyone here in the hall – and probably outside – wishes for it. The question is: What can we do in concrete terms? And my answers, the attempt of an answer, are: Firstly, a clear and complete yes to enlargement. – I always said that, you know that. I really believe this out of deep conviction. Now we also have the proof of this: Those countries around us who will join have partly growth rates between 3, 4, some even 5 percent, and we benefit because we have not, as some have claimed, fallen asleep in the opportunities, but because the Austrian companies, but also, please, the state institutions, also the federal states, have fully put themselves on this new opportunity. We have accompanied this development at the level of the Federal Government: With regard to the labour market, we have negotiated a seven-year transitional period to protect the domestic labour market. We have put out a €3 billion package for farmers for the next few years; this is important because farmers will naturally feel the competitive pressure through enlargement, we are currently running a large programme to improve infrastructure, which is intended to improve road and rail links with neighbouring countries. And: We have a political approach with the regional partnership, which I hope will also be taken. Therefore: This yes to enlargement, which, as I believe, connects all in this House far beyond the party borders, is one of the important and realistic instruments that we have. The second is education and research. – I don’t think that’s a question either: Everyone sitting here in this room knows very well that we are currently spending too much on some consumption purposes – the social ratio is enormously high in Austria, everyone knows this – while some investment expenditure for the future – and I expect education and research to be too low. Only: But I also have to say: Everything I want to invest more here, I have to take away somewhere else. I have to try to create financial room for it. [[Abg. Broukal: Take-off hunters!]] I believe that in a very difficult time, particularly in the field of education and research, we have achieved a lot. It's not possible to do this without any further notice, but it's going to come: 600 million € in additional research funds will be... – Unfortunately I do not understand you. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: When do they get 2.5 percent?]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: When do they get 2.5 percent?]] – After all, we have just reached the 2 percent mark, and we will continue along this path. The specific offer is: 600 million € in addition to the state – of course also the enterprises have to feed – and as I mentioned yesterday, we also want to try to build a research foundation, an Austrian foundation, through the note bank, which, however, clearly gives us less room in the budget, because the profits of the central bank, which is now in the budget, would then be linked to research. However, I would also like to ask for your support in the House to ensure that we also live this priority on a sustainable basis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The third area actually concerns investment. – In this respect, we are not on the road badly, one really has to say the Austrian undertakings, the small, the big, a great thank you. We have an investment rate of 23 percent of GDP! This has no other European country, this value is 2% higher than the average of the euro zone and the European Union. But we too come from the state just by rail and road – and this is verifiable; Of course, you have to add the distributed areas, namely ASFINAG and the rail infrastructure company, but this is also true – together with a significant increase, as Willi Molterer has already said, from €1.6 billion in 1999 to € 2.3 billion in 2004. – I consider this investment issue to be very important, it must also be supported fiscally by appropriate measures. The fourth area is very important, namely export. – There has been a small export miracle in the last ten years. The Austrian entrepreneurs have opened up new markets and made a lot. We will, knowing that this could become an economic engine, in the next two years a special programme consisting of €50 million from the state and hopefully equally supported by the Chamber of Commerce with another €50 million, i.e. a special programme of €100 million for export measures. This is something that, as I believe, will hopefully also find the satisfaction of the critical opposition, because there is really something to get there – especially in markets where we have not so far been so sufficiently represented. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] In particular, Herbert Scheibner spoke in detail about the reduction in taxes and the promotion of families. This is important because it will benefit the smaller incomes in particular. The 340 million € or the three-quarters of a billion €, which we provide through tax reliefs, additional wage reductions in these years, are mainly for the benefit of small incomes and thus strengthen the purchasing power. This is very expensive, I admit, but it is precisely used. I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance for saying at this time: No, as we do not have the goal of not making debt – which is absolutely meaningful in itself – we now have to take control of limited, accountable money! [[Abg. Eder: A little too late!]] – Not too late, just right; the economic programmes have started exactly at the time when the growth bend has become apparent – and this is also important: don't miss the right time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Has already been recognizable in 2000!]] We then fought massively to get a reduction in interest rates from the European Central Bank. Since November last year, we have had an interest rate reduction of 1.25 percent – that's something! And I very much hope that this will happen, especially as the uncertainty factors oil markets, Iraq war are over now; something could happen already. Last point: I believe that we must urgently try, even from us, to put the necessary structural measures, which are also a cause for the Scandinavians to be better than other European countries, now. And nothing else is we trying, namely to convert our state bureaucracy to a slimmer, more efficient administration. This includes, of course, job cuts, but above all, useful reforms. President Fierce, who is present and whom I would like to thank very much for his valuable suggestions, will be the President of the Austrian Convention. I expect that through this Convention we will get many ideas for how we can optimize this meaningful reconstruction of the state and the state functions. We have set ourselves a few weighty objectives in the government programme: For the first time, police, Gendarmerie and customs guards are supposed to be united in a common house. The professionals, the practitioners know exactly that this is a century project – and that is what we are attacking. A reorganisation of the judicial organisation, which dates back to 200 years, will also take place, which is an important issue. The health system – not in its financial flows, but from the organization – should be illuminated, for the question arises: How can central and federal elements be united in such a way that this makes real sense for the individual insured? [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Yes, how?]] Or: The question of eGovernment, which is now the financial online benchmark in Europe, with which we can make the tax declaration via the Internet, must be forced. Or: With the planned project ADONIS, which is currently in the final phase and therefore of course also opens up many discussions and is one of the most exciting projects, all these organizations are really connected. The chip card in the field of health organisation should also be implemented and so on. The federal government reform is urgently necessary because of the fact that the threat images have changed, as have the pension security reform you decided yesterday. Allow me to mention a point here that is very important to me: Everything we do has something to do with psychology. One can benefit from a development – not “speak,” beautiful, but one can strengthen an expectation, promote a hopeful situation – or one can weaken it and “put it down. ” For example, what bothered me very much – I have to say this openly here – has always been sentences such as that pension security reform pensions are reduced by 10 or 20 or 30 percent... – Wait! [[Abg. May. Posch: What else?]] Can I say the argument at least before you condemn it in soil and soil? This is, of course, objectively wrong, you know as well as I do. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Can you imagine that you too are wrong? Or is that...?]] May I perhaps quote someone who seems to be more suspicious to you than I am, namely the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs of the previous legislative period Lore Hostasch? This one has responded to exactly the same argument that came from the opposition at that time, which said, settlement periods mean pension losses, – I quote –: Don’t forget, “the new pensions will be above the average of the existing pensions. This does not mean that, in absolute terms, a reduction in the pension system will take place under the previous system, but only that the increases will be slightly lower than in the old system. But that’s exactly what it’s supposed to and will strengthen the generation contract.” – Quotative. The same thing, by the way, said the then SPÖ social speaker Reitsamer, who responded to the allegation that a 36-year-old official would be so, and so much as a percentage minus expected by increasing the calculation period from the last year before the retirement to 18 years – I quote –: “I dare to doubt” that such an example can be expected at all. “At 36 years of age, you should look at this in each case. This also applies to the private sector. ... And you forget wage increases, you forget pension adjustments.” – Quotes. That's the point! Of course, it won't have anyone by 30.40 percent less pension in 2033 than today. That is absurd, because in between there are wage increases, adjustments, re-evaluations, which we all plan. And I ask you to offer people a perspective that is realistic, which can be critical, but it is not a difficult situation to deal with in any way – that is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The The same applies to the ÖIAG. In reality, the ÖIAG has been an absolute success story in the last three years. It is true that privatizations have also been made in the past, but of course it has always been a matter of course in state ownership and thus under a very strong political influence of industry. One thing I have to say quite openly: We were all in the VOEST sometime in the last months. No one today knows which couleur, which political color Mr. Supervisory Board A, B, C, D, Manager one, two, three or four belongs to. They all just do their job neatly! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And this is one of the biggest successes in the ÖIAG policy, namely that there are professionals at work, and no longer is asked for the political color. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dr. Gusenbauer! Of course you are right: It is best for us if the decisions are taken in Austria, that is no question at all! The headquarters, the research institutions, the strategic decisions are to be made here. However, I am convinced – for sometime the desires of politics will grow again –: It's done if it's not the state that owns it. And I would have liked your critical words – perhaps not from you, but from others – to come to the headquarters at the time when Bank Austria finally went abroad without singing and sound. [[Call the ÖVP: So it is!]] That's where I have to ask: Where are the strategic decisions today? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Therefore: Let's continue this path that's begun! Let us take the question of fiscal policy, the consolidation of budgets even more seriously, even if there is a difficult economic situation today! Let's not make it too easy! Let us together look for solutions to how we can get even better, how we can grow stronger, but let's not talk Austria bad because it doesn't deserve it, and for that we are in Austria, I think, too good too!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4055	According to the principle of repetitio est mater studiorum, Mr Brosz has reported a new actual correction. Mr President, you know the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4077	Mr President. In his speech, Mr. Bundeskanzler claimed that even if the balance sheet extension measures were calculated, an increase in the university budget of € 130 million would remain. – That too is incorrect! Indeed, it is true that the 2002 budget estimate has been substantially overburdened by 1 billion €882 million, and actual expenditure has amounted to 2 billion €16 million. That was a breach of... – Well, of course! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That was a surplus of 134 million €. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a debate!]] [[Abg. Grandruck: That's wrong!]] In this context, we can only compare actual expenditure and in 2004 the budget approach of the global budgets, which must no longer be exceeded. It is therefore incorrect that there will be an increase of € 130 million in 2004.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4170	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Prammer. The speaking time is 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4189	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Federal Chancellor! Your objects are not ours, because for us it is clear that: If you take money away from the so-called little people – as happened yesterday, for example, in connection with this so-called pension reform – then there will be no growth either. What is happening to policy here, to budgetary policy, is unsocial, is not balanced! But that is exactly what should be the main approach to a budget in Austria in order to achieve social balance, social justice. You're not doing that! On the contrary: You will, and you know that, between 2004 and 2007, the Austrians will have more than €2 billion in additional burdens. And that's where the most beautiful Sunday talk is no use if you make yourself here and always talk about things that don't correspond to reality. I now come to the budget speech of the Minister for Finance a few times. The Minister of Finance has made two consecutive statements in his budget speech which have nothing to do with the budget figures presented and available. – Mr Finanzminister, neither on Sunday speeches outside nor speeches here in this House allow you to do this so easily, you must also be confronted with the realities. They say: “Who wants to fight poverty..., who needs to free our companies from shackles and burdens...” – This is an original quote from your budget speech. But what does that mean? Who or what are the bonds and loads? I focus on the word “who”, but that means: What you are saying here clearly must be understood as an attack on workers, i.e.: [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grass]] The reduction of social rights, the reduction of protection measures for workers, and in particular for women who are of course always the weaker at work, will have to bear the burden. I cannot help but understand the debate on the opening hours. This is a small part of many where you see progress where you see so-called freedom. However, this freedom lies elsewhere, not with the many people who are self-employed in Austria. Mr Finanzminister! “Freedom and self-reliance mean that people need to take advantage of these opportunities themselves” – you said in your budget speech. That sounds good, too. I'm just wondering how the little salesman will do that where she's going if she needs a babysitting room to take advantage of her chances. Caring for yourself – or what does that mean? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] In Vienna – Mrs Steibl, you know that very well – we have the best situation with regard to childcare and certainly not in those federal states you are always talking about. [[Abg. Steibl: The most expensive!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like every woman to find the offer that women thank God find in Vienna. [[Interlocutors Silhavy and Dr. Drinkl.]] Where are the babysitting millions that it used to be? – I said that yesterday: That would be a good investment. We have already told you before – at the time you even counted with us – that we have not only created 30 000 care places, but that with this twice 600 million schilling we have created 2 000 jobs at the time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – This is one of the measures that governments and parliaments could also put into practice. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] They speak of “freedom of people ” and also point to the numbers of employees. What about the number of employees in this country, where have they increased in recent years? – In part-time employment. I look at how women can stand on their own feet in part-time employment. And if you think that only the absolute numbers and not the full-time employment will ultimately secure the generation contract, then you are wrong, ladies and gentlemen! – Again, a measure against women. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] Next point – the Federal Chancellor has said this again now –: the officials. Minister Grasser! You really went up in your budget speech, because you said: “With the bacon!” Pronunciation: “With the bacon!” – I remember. So, dear officials, now you know what Mr. Finanzminister thinks of you! I'm just saying, Officials are neither bacon nor Maden in the bacon. They are those persons in this country who have the task of fulfilling the tasks of state. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! You should be at least as objective before you delete service posts, shorten and send people early into retirement to wait for the Convention to see where in the future the state tasks lie. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the time, the Minister has already makated and said: We're not going to give up the pressure on the road! – This is significant, the budget carries this manuscript: They ignore the needs and concerns of people in this country. “Rising taxes means giving freedom!” – That is what you have said, and I would like to refer to it again with regard to women. You think it is incredibly great that now for income below €14,500 a year tax-free is granted, but have you ever thought about what the many women, also again part-time women, who were already in the tax exemption, have of this measure? [[Abg. Ellwall: That's nothing for you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: 200 000 people are affected, you don't care!]] It will be zero at once, but at the same time they have all the difficulties to bear. The 4 € has already been mentioned today. You're talking about big gender mainstreaming, but you haven't forgotten women, not only in your budget speech, but also in reality, and their interests are ignored. As the word “pensions” has come once again: This “bitter fund”, which you are creating now, is really to be mentioned again and more specifically, because you do not only create a legal claim there, but also give one – you can’t say that often enough – unique support. [[Abg. Scheibner:...! That's because you always treat people like that!]] First, take people with the changes in pensions opportunities – and then they will be supported once; maybe every three years, perhaps every five years. And precisely women and small pensioners will probably have nothing of it, will certainly not receive the support they need. I'm going to pass it through. – You mentioned the calculation and quoted the former Minister of Social Affairs Hostasch. I have already said this several times at this point: Longer conversion periods are not unfair measures, if you do otherwise, namely set the recovery factors correctly. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What are you doing? . You decided yesterday on a motion for a resolution on harmonisation. [[Abg. Steibl: You have to negotiate this!]] In the future, they move somehow along wage developments; but not in the past. The calculation will be increased, but the upgrading factors will not be changed. – All of this affects people, is unsocial and unjust! – Yes, I would recommend: [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Read on to Hostasch!]] Read on to Hostasch, because Hostasch has always assessed the contexts in a balanced and fair manner, and the measures have been taken accordingly. [[Abg. Zweytick: You need to recognize the signs of time!]] Only now does it go back, people feel it, and not least because of that people go to the street, even though they are still being ignored by you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ellwall: Why are you so negative?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4390	Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer has now come to speak. Desirable speaking time: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4409	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The budgets we are discussing today, the 2003 and 2004 budgets, are, in our view, an excellent basis for sound economic management in the next two years and give the government the opportunity to act accordingly in this difficult situation, in this difficult economic situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] We have always pointed out the difficult economic situation, as Mr Kogler has done here, but we have not mentioned a “crisis” and that is a significant difference. That it is difficult, we have not disputed, but we have accepted these difficulties and the challenge and are trying to develop recipes, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The government has remained true to its objectives with these budgets: to keep the zero deficit to a large extent, as far as it is possible, and to set economic impulses. In other words, money is to be spent where it is useful, necessary and structurally important, for example in the area of infrastructure, for family policies, in the fields of research, education and science. A brief comment on Mr Brosz's actual correction. Mr Brosz did not, of course, actually correct his actual correction, but compared apples with pears. He did not compare success with success, but success with estimate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government is endeavouring to slow down the cost – it will do so – and to maintain the objective of a state-of-the-art state budget. In this regard, we are in comparison with other countries – it is not the same as Mr Gusenbauer has said here that we always compare ourselves with the last – on a very good international standard. We are in sixth place with regard to the deficit ratio – in 2002 we were still in the eighth place – in 2003. We are here – internationally – in an extremely excellent situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the last two days and even today, the speakers of the opposition have impressed me very much – probably all of us – because they have drawn an enormously gloomy picture of Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: Also of itself!]] A picture that, in my opinion, is not at all right and has very little to do with reality. My previous speaker also pointed quite impressively only to difficulties here and ultimately one – allow me, that is my expression – internalized certain culture of regret here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] I would like to point out here a very remarkable contribution in an article in the “time”, it is a rather merciless analysis of Helmut Schmidt, who wrote: “Because Germany has to change.” He pointed out exactly this culture of regret. He wanted to encourage Germany and said in his conclusion: Germany is a strong, viable, sustainable country, but one must believe in the power and the abilities of this country and must not become world champions in the sick. [[Abg. May. Prammer: But that doesn’t mean you can get the “little” people in your pocket unjustly!]] I think that the Austrian opposition is on exactly the same path, namely trying to become world champions in the sick. But we really have no reason to do that, Mrs Prammer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Angela Merkel, the opposition leader in Germany, has responded to this in the last issue of the “time” and, in my opinion, has also given us very interesting and correct answers. She says: The findings are correct, and it is also good that you give the Germans courage again, it is important that people do not lose courage, but it is essential that concrete policy answers. It is important that these answers include investment in the future. [[Abg. May. Prammer: I can remember a Helmut Kohl!]] Furthermore, Mrs Merkel: The guidelines are free space, self-reliance and competition. And political offers have to internalize precisely these principles, so a country can get out of a difficult situation. - That's the quote. Anxiety, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, and fears alone are too little. The painting of horrors, as Mr Gusenbauer has shown us today, incitements of the “social cold” and the “driving over” to replicate for two days, that is too little! I think it is necessary to make political offers, recipes must be here, and this federal government has shown us this in the past. It has also had the courage to make reforms, including reforms that are difficult, such as the pension reform, in order to be able to respond in the future to problems that may affect us. This is a positive way of life and future, I wish it were from a federal government – and this federal government is making it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4508	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. 8 minutes of speaking time will be adjusted. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4526	Dobro jutro! Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Dear Mrs. Volksanwälter Bauer! Mr. Volksanwalt Stadler! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I would like to start by thanking Members of Parliament's Directorate on behalf of the Green Group, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, and Members of Parliament for this – and Budget debates are always an opportunity to do so – that they are so wonderfully supporting us MEPs and the Green Club staff throughout the year. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The political work of the political groups and the individual Members would not be possible in the form if Parliament's 'infrastructure' were not so good. And I do not mean an “infrastructure” that refers to hardware, so to speak, but above all the “software”, the human and content grant that we receive from the employees who are very valuable to us. Mr President. I ask you to carry this thanks to the employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4558	I'd like to do that, ladies and gentlemen. I too am proud of our employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4574	I would also like to thank you, because today is the opportunity to join the public prosecutor's office and the words of the clubman Scheibner, who has already said that. I have so little speaking time at my disposal today and apologize for not being able to address the needs and wishes of the People's Procuratorate. My next point – including in the short term – is a problem – and I am so to speak directly to the budget, as the budget is always the framework for political work. Political work is not only being done by politicians who so to speak, but also by non-governmental organizations, by associations, by associations, and I am now referring to those groups and people who are active in the ethnic group sector and who are doing essential things throughout the year. This political work – “political” now related to the subject areas, Mr. Bundeskanzler, who concerns the issues of the ethnic groups – would not be possible if there were not State support and promotion. With all the respect I have given you, Mr Chancellor, because, contrary to other areas of the budget, the promotion of the groups is not reduced but remains the same, and thanks also for the fact that this does not happen, I would like to point out to you that a non-reduction, a balance in this case means stagnation, namely a stagnation of the possibility to do political work. I'm referring to what just happened recently: The People's Group of Hungary in Vienna and in the Burgenland – not that group that I belong to – has made a massive complaint to the Federal Government – perhaps this has already come to your attention; I am assuming, and therefore, that the people's representation, namely, that the support and support it receives, is by no means sufficient to meet the requirements that have been placed in the past to the People's Group Organisation, to each individual member of a group, and in the future to be given even greater scope in the context of the tasks arising in connection with EU enlargement. We understand ourselves as a bridge to the neighbouring countries and, if you should, to the neighbouring peoples. We have opportunities here that – and this is the problem if there is not enough money – can only be used insufficiently, which will also deny opportunities. The members of the groups in Austria – as well as I am sure the Chancellor knows – are among those groups of people who do not happen to live in the middle, but on the periphery, on the edge, speak the Slovenians in Carinthia, the Croatians, the Roma and the Hungarians in the Burgenland. But also the small group of Czechs and Slovaks – now I only speak of the recognised groups – who lives in the centre of Austria, namely in Vienna, lives in Vienna am Rand. That's why they need support and promotion. And since the budget is the policy put forward in figures, this support is lacking in order to address the problems of the future and the problems of the future. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Don't believe, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, that this concern, because I am no longer saying it, is less important than in the past, it is just a question of speaking time, because today I also want to devote myself to a subject with which in recent years you have dealt even more closely than any of us in the National Council: the questions of restitution, the questions of the compensation of forced workers and what has happened here in recent years. You know, Mr Bundeskanzler, because you are the chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Reconciliation Fund, you are also a member of the Board of Trustees of the National Fund of the Republic of Austria: I personally and my group have the highest appreciation for those who are active here. In a sense, we are also proud and happy to have done part of what has been going on here in recent years. That is why the commitment we have shown during the last days and weeks in relation to the precarious financial situation of the Israelite cultural communities in Austria – that is, the Federal Association of Cultural Communities – is an honest motivation; it may be a coincidence to say that. It is primarily not the concern of the Jews in Austria that this should go well, but the concern for the Republic of Austria. It is a concern of the Austrian people – that is my deepest conviction; the colleagues of my group see this as well – that Jews should not, in the truest sense of the word, rise to the barricades if their institutions, their religious community and their possibility of work are questioned by the precarious financial situation. You have heard the appeals expressed by the president of the Cultusgemeinde, the entire Cultusrat and many individuals. It is not only if you want to do so, but from Cardinal Schönborn to Bishop Sturm there is a palette of personalities of public life, at the head of all those of the President of the Federal Government who have appealed to you, the question of the short-term – the short-term! – clarify the security of the Jewish institutions in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I would like to address the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but not only him, ladies and gentlemen, but above all Mr Klubobmann Mag. Molterer and Klubobmann Scheibner. The Federal Chancellor has, as it were, presented the budget for the government, but we, ladies and gentlemen, decide on the budget. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In any case, by Wednesday next week we have the opportunity to solve this question of support to the cultural community. The President of the Cultusgemeinde Dr. Muzicant has addressed the wording in a letter to each of the Members of this House: In this fateful hour, he addressed all the democratic parties of the country with the urgent appeal to the Cultus community to help and secure the existence of the Jewish community by an extended financial support to the Cultus community. It is not the question of restitution, which is what it is all about; I would like to stress it very strongly. The question of the return and the attempt of reparation and compensation for stolen property stolen and not restored by Jews in Austria is to be seen separately from the question of whether we want Austrians to find the small Jewish community, which includes almost 7,000 members, conditions here that allow this diverse social, political, religious life of Jews in Austria, which they themselves have built in the last 30, 40 years, can continue and be secured in the form as it exists today. And that is a sum, ladies and gentlemen – and today we have heard many figures in the previous debates – which will certainly not fail. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bayr.]] President Muzicant has estimated the failure of the cultus community at €2.7 million a year. The banks say: You're not getting any more credits from us now, because we've done that for 20 years! The Cultusgemeinschaft therefore addresses the legislator with this call for help, which can shape the Federal Finance Act accordingly. That's why I'm asking, my appeal to you: Let us, we parliamentarians, Mr. Clubobers and Mr. Presidents, sit together and try to find a solution by next week, so that we can turn away the damage from this country – not damage from the Jews alone – which will result from a non-activism – and this is already happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4695	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. I'll set the clock up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4713	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Honourable People's Lawyers! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The objective of the budget policy in Austria has been to consolidate the budget budget over the last few years. This has already been so analyzed by my predecessor, the party chairman of the SPÖ, in his consideration, yes, he has even acknowledged that this path was phased out. If Gusenbauer Samuel Beckett quotes with the words “Wait for Godot”, then you have to understand that this wait is of course also on our side at some point in time, because we have been waiting for constructive proposals for many days and weeks, as far as pension security reform is concerned, as far as tax reform is concerned. It was also very, very little felt by a constructive co-operation in the committees. [[Abg. May. Trunk: Were you in committee? I didn't see you!]] . I was in the committee, Mrs Colleague, and I have to tell you, there was nothing that would have motivated and convinced us in any way, but it was only one of your very vehement distraction policies that you also conducted with the ÖGB in order to hinder us in our constructive work here in the House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the last few years, budgetary policy in Austria has been a very exemplary approach in its broad guidelines throughout the European Union: The general government budget has been settled, the Stability Pact has been implemented together with the European Monetary Union – an objective which has been achieved in the same way as European economic policy. Of course, this Stability Pact has also ensured the competitiveness of Austria in the context of the European Member States. Between 1997 and 1999, Austria experienced a very dramatic deficit development that led us to intervene and to compensate for this second worst result within the European Union with massive consolidation steps. We have achieved this impressively with the fiscal consolidation of the last and current German Governments, and for this you also deserve our recognition. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] All experts have confirmed that already in 1997 and 1999 we should have started to put the budget in order in Austria, that every day that had to be expected has cost us very, very many million euros and has led us to an absolutely difficult situation today. We have discussed this in the course of the pension reform debate many days that this debt policy over the last decades - €163 billion debt, €7 billion interest rate service per year and a million Austrians who have led you to the poverty line - has brought us into a situation that is not feasible from today to tomorrow, for which a solid and credible policy takes time to respond accordingly and to correct these failed political decisions over the last decades. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has made enormous progress with the consolidation course of recent years. We have already reached the zero deficit in 2001; in 2002, the Maastricht deficit of the general government amounts to 0.6% of the gross domestic product. This is much less than forecast by the experts in autumn. Under the rule, therefore, a very good interim balance sheet, which can be very proud of in view of the pan-European and world-wide economic development. But let us take a look at the key facts of current economic development. It is very impressive to note that we had record employment in Austria in May of this year. Never before have so many people in Austria been in employment. With an unemployment rate of 4.2 per cent across the European average, we have the third lowest, and we have the third lowest in the European Union with an inflation rate of 1.7 per cent, and this inflation rate continues to fall. Export growth is undoubtedly a great achievement in the foreign trade history of Austria and was today praised by the Federal Chancellor as impressive. We have seen a growth of more than four percent, twice as high as that in the European Union as a whole, and with nearly 28 000 business start-ups in Austria, a value that is also exemplary. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this double budget in 2003/2004, the Federal Government is setting up a new building block for a future positive economic and growth policy development in Austria. It is certainly necessary to carry out profound reforms, such as the savings of services, the abolition of parallel structures, the use of modern management methods and controlling instruments, as we know from the private economy, in all self-government bodies and social security institutions. In the field of health, we are concerned with reasonable rules as regards self-sufficiency, and the Austrian Federal Railways are about an economic orientation of the degree of self-financing. We are concerned with the reduction in the cost of making reasonable decisions, and we are concerned, as we have discussed very intensively in recent weeks, with ensuring that pensions are safeguarded in the long term. This, ladies and gentlemen, is done at times. With yesterday's vote, a reform was decided to secure pensions for the next decades and to make a very responsible and good decision here in the National Council for the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government is also implementing the largest tax reform of the Second Republic with this budget. [[Abg. Oillinger: With this budget?]] This is a signal for a growth-oriented economy in this country. This is a signal that work and performance will be worthwhile again in the future in Austria. The freedom of taxation for persons with up to €14 500 annual earnings is an achievement I would like to have wished for myself by representatives of social democracy who have always played out in the past decades as the social conscience of our country, but unfortunately played out all these achievements and pursued a debt policy that has caused us great harm in the present situation. With the implementation of this long-term demand, namely to relieve those involved from lower and low incomes, we have greatly favoured this group of persons. [[Abg. Silhavy: That is to say, Mr Colleague!]] Of these, 200 000 Austrians will be directly affected in the future, but a total of 1.6 million workers in Austria. This will strengthen purchasing power and the economy. This will also lead to a responsible economic policy in Austria in the course of its growth policy. In this context, I am thinking of the two additional points of the tax reform, namely the taxation of non-compulsory profits at half the tax rate and the abolition of the 13th VAT rate. Sales tax dates, which has been a long-term demand of the economy. For many economic operators and entrepreneurs, like me, the taxation of profits not collected has to this extent and the 13. Sales tax date presents a completely missing economic policy in recent years. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, this budget-accompanied law provides us with evidence of a significant budgetary policy in the case of relatively low and responsible deficit development, for a growth policy that will strengthen innovation and capital formation in companies. The formation of equity is the foundation and the basis for the economic development of a company. You should finally take note of this from the Greens, because in your speeches I always have the impression that your sales are the same profit, and that – I have to tell you from this point – is not the case. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: You say it’s “responsible deficit development”!]] This federal government will lay the foundations for growth and employment, for more futures, for more opportunities and for greater performance-righteousness in our country, and will therefore receive our consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4829	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4847	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! The statements by the clubman of the ÖVP would have actually promised that milk and honey flow in this country, that everything is in vain wonder – only the numbers speak a completely different language. You have the worst mood in this country for decades. You have companies that have lost hope in the future, you have individuals who are unsure of your actions in their future planning, and you have created three main features with your economic policy in the last three years. First, you have reached the highest tax rate in Europe. As far as this huge tax rate is concerned, we have not been caught by anyone. If Germany had this tax rate that we now have, it would be debt-free. Furthermore, under your economic policy, the highest debt level has been reached, and zero deficit has not been mentioned. In the three years from 2000 to 2003, they increased debt by more than 100 million schilling. The deficit has actually exploded. The only thing you've done: You've done everything nice and want to sell it perfectly, and you've partly succeeded. But now it is slow to point out that all this did not vote, which was sold there, that your economic policy was one of the worst in Europe and that you have decided on this savings package at the wrong time. As early as 2000, there were signs that economic collapses are coming – and the Federal Chancellor has spoken of the right time today. That's about two years too late! It has already been told to you at the time that the scope would now be created. The price of a zero deficit was wrong at this time, as you yourself now admit, that in worse economic times one has to counter it with an expanding expenditure policy. That means you did the wrong thing at the wrong time. We have an under-average economic growth, which results from it, logically, because we have been involved too late in these mechanisms. But you also operate redistribution at the wrong time and in wrong areas. If you go here and cut down on education hours, this will cause you to weaken the public education sector and thus put pressure on the private school sector. This means that the lower levels of income no longer have that education access as they have had it, and in private schools only those people who can afford it can go. This is ideologically desirable, but you do not want creative potential in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] And you make a pension reform that allows you to take away people with an income of 14 000 S or 1 000 € money to make the widely known purchases. You say we need room for manoeuvre and what I know, and then you make an acquisition that is certainly not the most important at this time, namely the interception hunters who are purchased in accordance with a dubious tender procedure, a very worrying tender procedure and a very worrying method. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I ask you only one thing – and here we are also on the subject of this item on the agenda: The Court of Auditors, which has done excellent work last year, will provide us with a report on this procurement process. July will come, if I am properly informed, that is, in the next 14 days. However, they do not wait for this report, but have already decided on the procurement process yesterday. Why? What was the need for you to take this decision now and not to wait for the Court of Auditors' excellent work? The National Council could have taken this decision in 14 days, too, that it could have taken it only in two months, and that would have given it no delay – it would probably have been reasonable. You will no longer be able to undo this process. They plunge this Republic into a disaster with this purchase, because precisely these areas of action which the Federal Chancellor has addressed are installed by buying these interception hunters. And we would have needed the money for something else by far! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You take away the money from the coalition parties to the little ones, the pensioners, so that you can make this unnecessary purchase. They introduce self-holds to medical care. That is, you take back those who can't afford to get the money away because all have the same amount of money to pay. [[Abg. Schöls: Why did your former old chancellor go to a private clinic?]] This is a redistribution from the bottom to the top, which we deeply reject and which has lost nothing in a really difficult time like this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They then tried to break down the pension reform with a hardness fund. I just find this ridiculous! If you look at the rules for the hardness fund, you know what you have to think about them: They take away money from the people for their entire retirement period and give them only one single payment! At the beginning of his pension, a pensioner can buy himself a suit – and then the money is gone! [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] That means you'll scrap him for 20 to 30 years each year – and then give him a one-time payment. And you're still saying he's not going to be a bit bitter! Please call the child by name! At the same time, the Minister of Finance spends €4 million on his advertising fees. He's working advertising companies so he's good at it! In order to improve this missing economic policy, it should be better sold. – Meaningless expenditure! Meaningless spending at a time like this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A few sentences on the savings of this government. You have abolished the administrative academy, but you have not saved any officials there. You continue to pay for the buildings, you continue to pay all other costs. The only thing that was abolished is the head of this administrative academy, obviously because he had a red party book. [[Abg. Silhavy: Aha!]] But at the same time, the German Chancellor's daughter appears in the course program. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] At this point I would also like to say: That's not the savings we're imagining! It is enough if the nephew of the head of the state of Lower Austria sits there. You shouldn't be driving that to the top. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A short while on art policy. – To do this, only one thing is to say: No one is interested in a personal dispute between the City Council of Vienna and the State Secretary in the Federal Chancellery. If you stop promoting one of the best known, one of the best and one of the largest festivals in Austria, then I can only say: Where remains Your policy? I think you once described yourself well, and I want to tell you how I judge this art policy when personal conflicts and small-sized personal disputes result in important cultural institutions no longer being promoted. You once said the following verse: Where am I here? What am I doing here? Nobody's here, and nobody tells me. I just hope that's changing soon. Where's the head of this strange institution? – This boss is now you, and you should really bear in mind that you have public funds here. [[Call the ÖVP: Lock set!]] I also think it impossible for the State Secretary for Sport to be present if his own budget chapter is dealt with; at least he should be present. It's embarrassing. We have the European Year of Education through Sport in 2004 and you cut down the school sports hours, which are often the only access to sports for many young people. Every youth is confronted with sports during school sports. This reduction is the wrong access, that's not a good performance you're doing. They introduce a “sport duty” with 0.1 percent increase in health insurance contributions, for the so-called leisure accident insurance. This is only true of the active sports drivers, because they are, of course, particularly punished by this “sport duty”. I'm just wondering: How is this government supposed to lead this country out of this crisis at a difficult time if it does the wrong thing at the wrong time?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4991	The next item is the report by Mr Bundeskanzler Dr. Schüssel. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5010	Deputies! I would not have expected such a low point in personal evasion of my family. I am therefore expressly speaking because I would like to reject this. I asked myself in the committee about a question of a SPÖ member and explained the matter, and I thought it would be done with it. The right thing is: There was a public invitation to tender for a pilot seminar in the administrative academy. It has won a private provider – I don't know the name at all – and among the speakers for this pilot seminar was my daughter, who is a freelance psychologist. If you want to make a political case out of it, I have to say: Shut up, before your “rest ”! I want to get away from it! Leave Please get my family out of the game!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5040	I call Mrs Wolfmayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5058	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to address the large-scale black painting of my predecessor and the short aperçu on art policy. As a cultural speaker of my group, I would like to dedicate my speaking time to an important topic, namely the Art Budget 2003/2004, which has remained almost the same with about €220 million as in 2002, and we are happy about this, we must be happy. There are no drastic cuts, and we are well on the side of our budget because State Secretary Morak is dealing with the existing resources rationally and prudently and because he is constantly discovering new financing possibilities in addition to the existing budget resources. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this way, it improves the framework conditions for the Austrian artists – and it expands them; this has to be explicitly stated once. I always hope – but I know that I hope in vain – that at last the opposition will judge a little more justly, perhaps also the press; but I just wish that. This is, in fact, far too little attention and recognition. I mention two very important examples, namely the two new, large pots that Morak has opened: the Digitalisation Fund and the TV Film Promotion Fund, each with €7.5 million annually, from parts of the broadcasting fee that have so far flowed into the general budget and are now being made available to improve Austria as a media and film location. This is an important measure from 2004, not a one-off action, but a sustainable investment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite this difficult budgetary situation, open up two new pots for art, for media art, which is truly not a matter of course! Another important measure is the shift under way, the change in the distribution of funding. I am of course particularly important to see the clear statement of intention to make further promotions into the federal states in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the long term, there must be an exit from a funding policy that still allows more than 80 percent of federal funding to flow to Vienna. This is an injustice which is at all one of the most important cultural policy projects. I mention a few examples of the signs of this changed procurement policy; Characters in the Steiermark: First of all. The Gironcoli Museum in Herberstein. It is financed by the federal government, the Land and the Herberstein family each. – Signs of strengthening and internationalising a region, a successful example of public-private partnership. Secondly, the Ernst-Jandl Prize, which has developed into a lyric biennial in Neuberg on the Mürz, which is very well-regarded by literary friends and literary friends. He'll be awarded this second time. By the way: Two years ago he went to the young author Thomas Kling, this year the Swiss poet Felix Philipp Ingold is awarded. Thirdly, the establishment of a digital TV transmission platform in Styria. I am particularly proud of this, ladies and gentlemen! Head of State Klasnic has reacted very quickly for the Styria here, as it is typical of them. It is open to new technologies. The future of television lies in digitalisation, which is why this pilot project in Styria is all-Austrian and speaks for the start-up mood especially in Styria. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Not to be forgotten: the other grants of the federal government in the context of the Cultural Capital Year of Graz 2003, which, by the way, is very expensive when you look at the numbers of people staying and visiting. I am very often on the road at the various events there and I know very well. It is very well accepted – by the population, by the Grazers, the Steirers, the other federal states. There are, by the way, 28th. ==References====External links== Graz is visited by many cultural enthusiasts and art tourists from all over the world. The examples mentioned above, ladies and gentlemen, are intended to represent other projects in the federal states, and there are many other positive initiatives in the regions, or are already being implemented: An increasing cultural and artistic exchange with Eastern Europe, a promotion – that is especially important to me personally – of children and youth literature – here I mention the children's and youth literature database ALIDA – www.alida.at – which has just been founded. You get in there, that's a very interesting and especially important thing for the authors. All of this includes increases in the direct promotion of art and the expansion of prices and scholarships. There's money going directly to the artists. On the children's book sector, I call the five Mira-Lobe scholarships, which are awarded each year, and the approximation of the children's and youth book publishing support to the adult book funding. Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, the art and cultural policy of recent years can actually be divided into three stages: We were heavily indebted to 2000. That's what we've done. And we have set up additional resources. – Whether you want to see it or not, there are clearly three stages of a success story.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5165	Next item is Mrs Sburny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5183	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It's sometimes difficult – I'm really a constructive person, and those who know me longer will confirm it – it's, I notice, after these days difficult to keep getting this constructiveness again and again, to get it back. If Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer says that the opposition always draws a gloomy picture, I can only say: I sometimes wonder that I am still so happy, and again and again – despite your tactic of concealment in the budget, despite your attacks on democratic civil society rights, such as strikes, and despite your renunciation-like repetitions, how unconstructive the opposition is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But, as I said, I'm always happy. I would now like to draw this tactic of concealment from the budget to a concrete example of today. You have accused us or Mr Brosz of comparing estimates and results and thus apples with pears. You have already explained this to us in the Committee on Budgets. Well, these are two different things, but one I have to say: Year after year it turns out that the estimate does not correspond to the result. I would have a problem with my personal budgeting if at the end of a year I always thought I had spent twice as much as I had done. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am making it clear to a very concrete example. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Adjustments!]] Adjustments? - I'll tell you what you're going to do. Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft/Education. – You have budgeted too little in the school for rent by €150 million. That's 50 percent too little! 150 million €, although you need to know how high the rents for schools at the BIG are. That's not what explodes like this, but you know it. They have also budgeted 50 million too little at the universities, so de facto the actual costs are twice as high. I would therefore be interested in what your attacks should be, that all this does not agree with what we say. And that's what's particularly dramatic, that's about the unis. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This has to do with the budget commission!]] With regard to the unis, everything is provisional, I know! We have now become accustomed to the fact that everything is always provisional and we never know exactly what will happen, from the amendments to the budget. But we can only work with what we have in hand. And if you don't give us a hand anymore – good; that's the stand right now. But let me say to the universities: Last year 50 million € too little for rent. So far, that was pretty no matter, because the universities were able to rely on what was too little budgeted to be shot out of the budget. This will look different from 2004 onwards. There are then the global budgets, and if you have not budgeted enough, this is happening to the full, and that is a disaster! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That means they're your little tricks in the budget. The background was that you have raised this much praised zero deficit, and that's why you just didn't write in the proposal the costs you knew that they were going to arise. So it was, and that is why this will have to be corrected afterwards. To my colleague Bucher, whom I do not see now. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (on the Abg, sitting next to him in the second row. There he is!]] - Oh, that's it! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We're getting up fast!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Yes, yes, sometimes it goes in the other direction, too! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] I can calm you down: We can clearly distinguish profits and sales, but fact is that the profits of companies rise three times as fast as the salaries of employees. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] And there you can ask the question, without being class-warranted, where this money goes, where it is invested and who needs what support. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Where is the equity ceiling of the Austrian companies?]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid:... against the great no chance!]] I am not saying that the small and medium-sized enterprises have these big profits, which is, as it were, the accounts. That there are enough small and small people, I know well myself, who are just as limited as those you have now punished with your pension reform. This is equally true of small entrepreneurs, you are right, and above all the female entrepreneurs. But because you said we're not making any proposals: We have certainly made proposals to you as to how to improve the economic situation. Today it has been said several times that there are possibilities for this also in an open economy as small as it is Austria. Once again, there is the possibility of investing in research and development, which has proved to be a very great potential for jobs, but it is also an important aspect for a modern country that you are always striving for. What do you invest in research and development? - They're talking about 600 million. However, there is nothing to be found in the budget in 2003; it may be that something is taken out of the previous savings measures. 180 million are planned for 2004. This is an absolutely ridiculous amount and will not be able to fulfil anything you claim to be a boost and an investment that really moves something economically. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The same applies to labour market policy: It is zero budgeted for an active labour market policy! They still let these automatic stabilizers run through, they simply let the additional unemployment that is currently happening – including, to a lesser extent, the pension reform – pass through. But that's the only thing. You are not running an active labour market policy, and you could do so, for example, with what you call eco-tax – which is, of course, far away from any eco-tax, but is a pure tax increase – by taking a little more money into your hands, as the greens have proposed, up to 3 billion, and then funding it, then compensating it, and then investing – from thermal building renovation to investment initiatives in the field of renewable energy. That means that there are plenty of opportunities in this scope, which Austria has as a national state, to do something for economic growth, but do not use these opportunities. They don't use these opportunities! A final comment on what the Minister of Finance says about strengthening social cohesion. He says that only a strong economy secures social cohesion. - That's a big trick. A strong economy ensures an increase in the prosperity of a society. In this respect, I believe we agree. But the strengthening of social cohesion does not depend on the strong economy, but on a just and good distribution policy. And we have our legitimate doubts as to whether you accept this challenge, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5348	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5366	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwälte! High house! The Double Budget 2003/2004 is the starting point for a positive budget course. Debt reduction has been in the foreground in the past and is also in the foreground in the present and in the future. It must also be questioned in future that this budgetary course, which we are running in Austria, continues to ensure the security that has already been addressed. Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. But it can't be that you can save everywhere and put the security at risk with it. It is important that security continues to be maintained. However, it is also important – and this is seen by the figures – that the health and health awareness of the Austrians increase significantly. This is also evident in the fact that life expectancy is increasing in Austria. My predecessor, Mrs Sburny, meant that more should be invested in research and development. I believe that what is foreseen in the budget for research and development is excellent. If more is possible, then I am of course in favour of taking action, because research and development are long-term objectives that we are striving for, but of course it must also be taken into account the short-term ones that are coming to us in the near future. In this context, I particularly address those measures that are necessary for the compatibility of family and work. This can also be read from these budgets for 2003 and 2004. A tax reform as well as pension reform is also essential. This is the most important point in this budget accompanying law that we have secured pensions for the younger generations in a sustainable way, but at the same time also ensured a transfer to a new pension system. And harmonisation is also on. – These are important components that are included in these budgets. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The National Action Plan on the control of poverty and social exclusion is also integrated and is an important component of this budget. I would like to say one thing about the tax reform: These measures will ensure that income stakeholders are better placed and thereby also strengthen purchasing power in Austria, which in turn stimulates the Austrian economy. There are significant changes to the Income Tax Act. Gross annual income of up to €14 500 will be tax-free and those of up to €21 800 will be taxed. That's an essential boost. This is a good basis for the economic upturn in Austria. The maximum load for the self-employed is 580 € per year, 475 € for non-employed and 450 € for pensioners. This, in turn, represents smaller losses which we have already minimized in the framework of the budget accompanying law on pension reform by reducing losses. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This reduction will affect or favour 1.65 million workers, about 350 000 of whom Alone earners or educators. That is, Mrs Colleague, also important for you to know that the essential improvement is to be made. There are about 730 000 pensioners – of which 115 000 are single earners – and 60 000 are self-employed – of which 12,000 are single earners again – who profit noticeably. There are between 180 000 and 200 000 persons entirely out of the tax liability. If someone says it's not positive, I don't understand the world anymore. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For profits not collected, a favourable tax rate is introduced, i.e. half the average tax rate, limited to one marketing year, for the increased equity up to €100 000 each. In the event of a subsequent decline in capital – except for natural losses – there is a re-taxation. On the tuition fees that have often been awarded in the past: I am also in favour of the fact that professionals can drop their tuition fees for a proper university degree because these people are disabled towards other students. Connection costs and basic charges in the field of broadband technology are also reduced in time as special expenditure. I think that's very good. The change in premium-privileged future provision will be an important factor. There are still substantial changes to the Federal Caring Act, but I still have the opportunity to comment on this in the course of the discussions on social security and generations. I will also comment on the unemployment insurance law, the amendment of the labour market service law and so on in the afternoon. I would like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors for the excellent work done by the Court of Auditors and also for the excellent work done by the lawyers in the sense of the Austrian people you have done in the past. I am convinced that you will continue to be active as well as in the past as a positive for the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If the funds are too little for you, please shout, we will change them.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5424	The next speaker is Mr Morak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5442	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am somewhat irritated by Mr Wittmann's speech because I feel that he is swallowing in a slaring country of the negative superlatives. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He's the name of important man!]] That can't be Austria. This cannot be cultural policy, nor can it be the policy of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But he continues a familiar habit of social democracy. Josef Cap has started quoting my songs, here I come to a late fame of my song. I thank him for that. According to “Bests look different” and “Where is the boss?” I can also put my heart to him: ‘The Kohl white wine and the apocalypse’ or ‘I drive the Caterpillar’ or ‘two three seven eight tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin’. With Mrs Petrovic, I have a close relationship with the Human Rights Committee, which is why I now say two sentences to the groups. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Stoisits!]] We have not only kept the budgets the same, the State Secretariat for Art and Media has not only made grants, but also, I would like to say, the bilinguality of the minorities in the ORF law has also been enshrined. After all, this is a budget sum of € 2 to € 3 million. This is an appreciation, including the position of the ethnic groups. I would ask you not to forget that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But all the words of the opposition were own that they have always spoken of the difficult times, of the terrible times: of zero growth, of savings and so on and so on. In the context of that, I must honestly tell you, the cultural budget that we manage here and that the Federal Government is managing here is remarkable. 220 million € – if you add the media offensive, it is 235 million € – are used to force the art and cultural location of Austria. If you compare this with European reality, despite the thoughts you paint on the wall, where there are cuts of 10, 20 and more percent, if you read in the “Frankfurter Allgemeine” and in other newspapers about the closing of theatres, opera houses and the combination of orchestras, then you know that we live here in a country that is worth a lot of culture and that we want to continue to define about culture. It is right – and I thank Mrs Wolfmayr, that she has addressed it – that we naturally want to set priorities and set priorities. This includes that we – that was a long call for opposition, and I can still remember when I was a member of the House, it was also a call from me – invest in the film location Austria. There's always been too little money. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the fact that, after long, difficult negotiations, we have been able to finance film policy that complements what we already have in this country with the fee money allocated to the State budget. The success of the Austrian filmmakers in Cannes and Venice has always been financed by the Art Section and the ÖFI. This means that good cooperation with the public and distributed bodies needs an addition because we want to emphasize the production site of Austria. That means: We have top funding of up to 20 percent in the field of production, television production when a producer has spent 80 percent of the funds with partners and co-financers. The funds for this amount to € 7.5 million. Together with the €8.5 million we manage at the ÖFI, together with the budget I am willing to invest in the film college for the first-time film, this is a package that can be seen, and that is of course an answer to the great criticism that there was that the Republic is doing too little for its filmmakers. I believe that we can all be satisfied with this, and this is a solution to the problems ahead for the next seven to eight years. And I am very grateful to all those involved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The second problem is not new, but it has already been pointed out by Chancellor Sinowatz 28 years ago in the catalogue of cultural policy measures. There is no distribution justice in the cultural field, especially in the promotion of art in this country. At the time, the socio-cultural budgets were introduced, which amounted to about 50 million schillings. At first, it was 34 million, which then grew to 50 million schilling. But I think we have to go beyond that. There has been a development in the arts and culture sector, that is, this area has, of course, become different in these 28 years. We now have an art house in Bregenz, we will soon have an art house in Graz, we have big events, but we also have cultural productions from Krems – think of the cultural mile – to Schwaz in Tyrol, from the “styriarte” in Styria to the Salzburg Festival. That is, it has grown a different cultural concept in this country in these 28 years – no, it was also promoted! That's why I don't understand the wonder of one culture politician or another, who now says: For God's sake, why is the money deducted from Vienna? – There – believe me – a competition takes place, and the better one is to be promoted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It cannot be that we spend 70 to 75 percent of the funds in Vienna, especially in the field of art promotion, and I do not count on the Bundestheater and the Bundesmuseen. In a federal country about the same size as Vienna, for example Lower Austria, we have only 2.4 or 2.5 percent. It's even less in Upper Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a process we can do quickly. But it is a warning, also from the conference of the cultural representatives of the countries that have agreed on it – including Vienna – that we must research through all these positions and think about it: Where is it important that we go to the investment? Ladies and gentlemen! Believe me, this is an essential concern that we are going to push forward. I also believe that we will have consensus with all of us here, because you, I think, cannot really like to see it, Mr. Abge-orderneter Wittmann, that the federal government in Wiener Neustadt has a funding position of €6 540 or that we have a literary work scholarship for Anni Stern-Braunberg or a dance scholarship “Laura Popelka” at €11 000. I can't do that. Your need can't awaken your satisfaction. It can't have been. I believe that the promotion of art should intervene where we want to help, where we want to develop something further and where we continue this path that we have gone together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the media location Austria: It is not only about film promotion on the one hand, but also about the liberalisation of electronic media, which we – four years after Albania and 18 years after Germany! – have driven forward, so that we are now at an eye level and are now driving digitalisation forward. This is what we are now facing with European development, so for the first time here are part of European development in the media sector. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for allowing us to loosen public funds of €7.5 million in this area as part of the Public Private Partnership. In this sense, two good years are ahead of us. I think we're going to be good at it. In any case, we can live with the framework conditions, and I think we can also do something about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5525	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5544	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Call to the liberals:Freud's promise!]] Mr President of the National Council! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Dear Lady and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Freudic promises happen from time to time. . As chairman of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, I would like to refer, in my contribution to debate, to the Lady and to the Members of the Public Prosecutor's Office and above all to thank them for the work they are doing in the service of citizens in this Republic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! I've been dealing with your balance sheet, which can truly be seen: In 2002, they completed 14,851 installments, there were 6,896 test procedures, 22,000 entries were processed, and 2,325 people addressed their concerns to you at one of the 263 spokesmen in 2002. – This is a truly proud balance, which can be seen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have created a structure that illustrates the accumulation of the complaints and the immense work that you have been dealing with since you took office. I therefore believe that it is simply important, necessary and time for the budget to be increased. I was pleased to hear that Mr Dolinschek said: Tell me what you need, we'll make sure that the funds are available. – I believe that if so much good work is done within the meaning of our citizens, then the appropriate equipment must also be provided. I therefore believe that it is more than right and cheap not only that there is the same budget, but also that what you have informed us of in a letter in February of this year, namely that you need additional three offices and two offices for law firm work. This is really important and necessary for our Republic and for the citizens of this state. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We're going to work for it. I hope that we can reach a consensus in this House and then take the relevant decision. The fact that your concern is more than right can also be seen by making an international comparison, for example by looking at the staff situation at the public prosecutor's office, at the Ombudsman in Hungary, when comparing with other countries. They are, although you are sure to work effectively and streamlined, due to the fact that most of the work is not able to work properly if you do not have the appropriate equipment. That is why you have our support in this regard and, I hope, also those of the entire House. On the content, I would like to say once again: It would be necessary to listen to you in various questions, since you are always in contact with the effects of the laws by the complainants. That is why we in the House should be careful to respond to these complaints in one case or another, which is not just a single case, but a general problem, in the form of legislative amendments. I noticed – I have briefly looked at and read your reports – that, for example, this case occurred to the multiple-child family. There is a family with nine children, who would like to bring the children together in a car in the form of a driving community to the school, to the kindergarten or wherever. A change in the law requires that the driving licence law be amended. This should be possible, but it cannot fail to have some forms reprinted. – That would be an example of how to help these people – in this case, these multichild families. It is already possible in other countries. It only needed a small change, and that would be something we should do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally – the clock already shows me that my speaking time is over –: I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to autumn. We have agreed an appointment with the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. I am looking forward to an intensified cooperation, I have made a request with your demands more or less and I am really looking forward to a good cooperation in the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5602	The next speaker is Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5621	Mr President. Dear Lady, honourable gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Gentlemen on the government bank! I would like to speak as a sports speaker to my group on the sport chapter, because the most popular leisure activities of the Austrians are always directly or indirectly related to sports. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Where is the State Secretary?]] The range ranges from active sports practice to “consumation” of sporting events, so sport is an important social, educational, economic and health factor. The Austrian athletes are excellent ambassadors of our country and unique advertising carriers for our home country Austria. Let's just think back briefly about the last weeks, about the successes of a Werner Schlager who shot the whole world elite off the table and became a world tennis champion! Think of our skiers, who were once again the most successful in winter and make good tourism advertising as a sign of the winter sports country Austria. Yesterday, Austria's football player with a 5 : 0 against Belarus – except for that – wiped out the crowd of last weekend. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Exceptional!]] Not to be forgotten are our disabled athletes such as Danja Haslacher and Thomas Geierspichler, who bring top performances in impressive manner and always bring medals home again and again. In addition to the boundless use of our athletes, however, the financial basis for development is also particularly important. It is very welcome, for example, that in the context of the negotiations on sport promotions in the 2003/2004 budget, with €60.7 million for 2003 and with around €62 million for 2004 these framework conditions were set. This is at least €1.5 million more than in 2002. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These increased funds are included in the special sports promotion, which forms the basis for the Austrian sports associations. With more than €500 000, the Austrian Disabled Sports Association receives the lion’s share – a right decision at the right time! With the financial framework now to be decided, broadband in Austria will be able to further expand its activities for the next two years. The three umbrella organisations make a significant contribution to the fact that the Austrians receive a life-long sport offering – for performance, fitness or health-oriented sports. The comprehensive club network offers the most diverse offers with best-trained exercise managers and trainers at the highest level. This is largely possible through these financial support, as it allows the associations to provide sufficient structures and high quality. The importance of sports for our health shows a Harvard study that highlights that the health aspects of sports in Austria are still too little perceived by the population: Some 60 percent of the Austrian population, who do little or no sport, usually suffers from severe health impairments. Therefore, sport is of great importance as a precautionary factor for everyone and for every woman, so it must continue to be supported. It is only with the wide range of umbrella organisations that it is also possible to make a significant contribution to public health and thus also to the discharge of our health systems. As Vice-President of the Sports Union Austria, I have always had a comprehensive insight into the important function of the umbrella associations, the clubs and their work for and around Austrian sport. Sports activities are also of great importance for young people. In the 12 300 non-profit sports clubs in Austria, optimum young work is done. In these numerous associations, around 300,000 volunteer officials are active – these are a decisive contribution to the success system Breitensport in Austria – and these volunteer officials are once again a sincere thank you. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] The successful structure and commitment of trainers, parents and athletes contribute much to multiplying the financial resources made available by means of self-services. Active sports policy, as practiced by the government, also means active economic policy at the same time. The active promotion of major events in Austria and the support of international applications as provided for in the budgets mean another major step in the right direction. I would just like to mention one example of sporting events: the 2003 European Business Sports Games, in which around 6,000 athletes from all over Austria and all over Europe will participate in Salzburg at the end of June. The accompanying persons, trainers and caretakers alone bring over 30,000 additional nights. Thanks to the successful award for the 2008 European Football Championship with our partner Switzerland, many important economic impulses are set, especially for the construction industry. All in all, 100 million € will be invested in the quality increase of the stadiums in Vienna, Klagenfurt, Innsbruck and Salzburg alone, 60 percent of them from the federal government and the rest from the countries. This means creating new jobs and ensuring existing jobs. Preparations for this European football championship will also create qualified jobs in the field of technology, organisation and tourism. The positive impact on local tourism, increasing awareness of individual regions in conjunction with the sport factor, the already mentioned increased willingness to invest in infrastructure and other location factors are further positive aspects for these major sporting events. Of course, the application of Salzburg for the 2010 Winter Olympics is particularly important to me, which is also supported by the German Federation with 1 million €. The application and the achievement of the status of a candidate city have already paid for the country through concrete economic effects on value added. The Institute for Higher Studies has calculated that the application has generated €5.2 million in value added, the resulting purchasing power effects represent a value of €7.4 million. A total of 66 new jobs were created in this area alone between 2001 and 2003. The additional tax revenue from the application is approximately € 1 million. Both in the context of the application and in the run-up to these games, events will take place in the region, which would not be held there without the Olympic Games. Together with our partner regions Kitzbühel and the sports world Amadé, valuable concepts for infrastructure, transport and environmental planning for the future have been developed as part of the application, which can already be used regardless of the award of the Olympic Games. These benefits alone represent a value of around € 570 000. A particularly positive impact of the application is also the greater identification of the population with its home region as well as the image and advertising effects for the whole country. ==References== July in Prague really works – of course I am convinced as Salzburger and Austrian – then the world's largest sporting event – and these are the Winter Olympics – takes place in Austria. What this means economically is also since the 10th century. On June 10, it was announced that it was the 10th anniversary of the war. In June, the International Olympic Committee with NBC concluded the TV contracts for the years 2010 and 2012. This amounts to $2 billion. This means that for the winter games alone we get a share of $820 million allocated to the IOC and 50 percent to the Host City. Finally, I would simply like to say: You see, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to be done for sport; and so it applies to a new: Live the sport!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5694	Mrs Glawischnig. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5712	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Since my previous speaker has finished his talk about the sport with the pop music quote “Es lebe der Sport” by Rainhard Fendrich, I can now turn seamlessly back to the culture and dedicate myself to the art budget. I would first like to come to the naked figures of the art budget and then a little more detailed on the overall art and cultural policy. First to the art budget and to the naked numbers. For years now we have been experiencing something that can only be described with flaw management. The estimates for the 2003 and 2004 budgets have also not increased by 0.33 percent compared to 2002, i.e. de facto frozen at this low level. If you look at this more closely, you can see sometimes very painful cuts, especially in the field of fine art with minus 6 percent, music and performing art with minus 8 percent, and an increase in the field of cultural initiatives and film. If you want to derive a political focus from this, you have to say before, when you manage art budgets, that it is very strong on the How important it is to do it. This May we received a number of calls for help from institutions already in private bankruptcy with one foot, in compensation, which had to release employees. This is due to the fact that there is no budget commitment and no planning certainty for essential institutions in Austria. Associations and institutions that have done and do worthwhile work for years not only suffer from these lawn mower-like cuts, but also suffer from the fact that there is no transparent and reasonable administration in which one has planning security and can be sure at the beginning of the year which projects can be realized. That's very bad! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] With regard to how: There are very few structural decisions from your side, there are essentially lawn mower-like cuts, which for many institutions mean one thing: to die too much, to live too little. This concerns, for example, institutions such as the Neue Oper Wien. It is always very short with the resources, just below the amount that is needed. The consequences are then a lack of quality, that only small-occupied pieces can be played or that invitations abroad can no longer be accepted. Further consequences are that, for example, facilities such as the depot can only open up again in September to make a programme for only four months for a year. The Orpheus Trust, the documentation centre for Austrian musicians, which was distributed by the Nazis, is also lacking a small amount of money for their program, so that a staff member will have to say: I work every day from nine o'clock in the morning to midnight. After seven years of permanent survival struggle, I am sometimes too tired to see what I have achieved. - That's very bad. That's a question of how to handle it. How do you deal with the art budget, with the medium use? What I really need to blame you, Mr State Secretary, is that you do not see the problems of these initiatives and often wait until May. These people have to call you for months for their planning security, for their projects. This is not an art and cultural policy! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] What happens if you actually set political priorities? . I understood that a political focus is the regional strengthening, regional cultural initiatives, the distribution from Vienna to the federal states. What happens when you do something like that? – On and on, you can discuss this very well. I also share your view that criteria can be established. But what happens when You do something like that? We have seen this in the international media as a wave of indignation. What happens if you delete a small subsidy? – There are comments such as “immoral withdrawal”, “brachial methods”, “irritating misdeeds”. "From the point of view of the countries, there is a real need for a redistribution. Morak’s brachial methods, however, are fatal.” That's all in renowned international newspapers. I wonder, How does that happen? How does it happen that in your political projects you constantly encounter a wave of indignation? That was at the Vienna Festival weeks, that was at the "Diagonale". [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: If only the left are inside!]] At the “diagonale” it was even worse than at this renowned festival the call for the new intentional dance led to a wave of indignation. I wonder if you might also ask yourself why these misservices always hit such waves afterwards, why that doesn't work. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's the answer!]] I've been thinking about it for a while and the end to which I came... – It wasn't the socialist funding pots! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: These were the socialist funding pots that this...!]] If in art and cultural policy you are the only one who always sees the debts of the past, then this is really very bad. But why is this always happening to you that Austria is being put up as blamble abroad? In the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” you can read comments such as: from the government bunker in Vienna conservative cultural policy. – Theatre intrigues are quoted there. I bring a quote from the “press” – that’s really not a subversive newspaper –: “Theater intrigues are evil. But the worst are supposed to be the Burgtheater intrigues. This is, of course, an obligation that we do not share. The connoisseur, however, sees with amazement at the cabal around the Joseph City the cabal around the diagonal. In both cases, the former castle actor and current art secretary Franz Morak pulled the threads.” Why is that so? – The answer is a very simple one. Especially in the arts and culture sector, political arbitrariness is something that must be avoided. If you make regional redistribution from a single point of view, namely just to cut off the red Vienna of an unloving or unloving initiative in any form, then this is very sad, but has absolutely nothing to do with political priorities. That is why, in recent months, in all foreign newspapers, from the FAZ downwards, Austria is giving a blamable picture of its art and cultural policy. I would ask you to stop these transactions, not because of the sums – because the Vienna Festival weeks really don't care about these few 100 000 € – but the procedure is to be criticized. I have come to the impression that you have not yet understood what art and cultural policy is all about, namely, a certain distance in order to preserve and respect the freedom of art. You can't always, if anyone's looking up, if anyone's from the wrong party, you can't beat up like that. “Moraks Brachialmethods”, these are not my quotations. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But this is easy to understand! We don't need your explanations.]] These are all quotations from renowned art and cultural critics and observers of Austrian cultural policy. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You only say half, the other half leave you away!]] I'd really ask you: Let's get these fights around 100 million €! Let us really try to respect and honor the great principle of freedom of art in this area and not apply such criteria as in recent times at the "Diagonale", the Vienna Festival Weeks and so on! The Blue-Black Federal Government may finally recognize objective, professional and sound criteria and the freedom of art! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5819	Mr Lichtenegger is so quick that he's already at the speaker's desk before you can call him. But he is the next speaker and has a speaking time – voluntarily –: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5847	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! I've already warmed up, so I've been there before. Today we are talking about the sports budget; in my opinion, the sum is not always everything, it is not always the stone of the wise. We should also ask ourselves: How is the money used? Above all: What do we do with the money? Where will the money be invested? – Nevertheless, there are 20 million € this year and also next year. My predecessor Peter Haubner has already addressed the 2010 Winter Olympics. ==References====External links== July, the vote will take place in Prague. This is an economically extremely interesting event at relatively low costs, says the Institute for Higher Studies, which is responsible for total expenditure of €901 million, and this is compared with a value-added of €811 million from today to 2012. The advertising contracts with the television stations are not yet included. In addition – which is also very important – it will be until 2012 if Salzburg receives the award – and here I am Peter Haubner’s opinion that this is very important for us – 19 000 additional jobs will be provided by these Olympic Games alone. Apart from the sporting value – I was already present at two Olympic games myself – these are, I believe, cornerstones that we cannot deny. In addition, twice as much pay tax comes in, as the construction of the sports equipment costs, which is largely already available. Apart from the tourist advantages that can be mentioned positively, this is of course a huge free advertising for the site Austria, for Salzburg and for Kitzbühel. The same can be expected for the European Football Championship. Finally, Austria is not only plagued by embarrassing football defeats; in Austria, football is the number one, not only in the media. – The construction of new stages is also a sign of the future, especially for the future of our youth, which can then use these new stages. This is an important impulse for young sports. The interest of young people is also aroused, and so more young athletes can be won for football. Further developments in Austrian sport have been achieved with the funding model “Top Sport Austria”. There have been substantial structural changes. They all know “Top Sport Austria” as a promotion model for Austrian top sports. It is new in this funding system that there will be a central assumption that, as a sportsman, you just need to make more of an application, not more different. This coordination body will then be in conjunction with various funding agencies, bodies in which one can obtain money as a sportsman, with the applicant being able to choose these funding agencies. As a young sportsman, you often don't know where you can get funding, even what you're doing. This coordination body is helping you to do this. These applications are also treated relatively quickly – and this ensures that: There's no longer this double promotion. This means that you don't get funding for one and the same training camps or for additional nutrition, for example, from two different places. So this is also regulated. Which is also an interesting impulse: In Carinthia, in St. Veit, there is a first pilot project, the so-called Motive Kindergarten, which, in my opinion, represents an important step towards child, youth and youth work. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, the focus is not only on sport, but also on the movement of children. I believe that movement is also an important instrument in terms of social integration. When I was a child, there hasn't been a play station, nor a computer, but that's probably going to be the same with all of you. As children, we were still in the forest and talked to other children playfully. Our social life was quite different at the time than it is today. It is important that the children already learn to deal with their own bodies in kindergarten – and that they also learn to start something with themselves in their free time. This also means, I believe, that we can prevent drug problems, and then there are no such questions as whether to open a hash-trafic or not, as was the case recently in Vienna, and what has been said by a Member of Parliament, Mr Brosz. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: How do you see the cuts in the gym hours?]] [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] But not only the promotion is an important aspect, but also the integration of the sport of disabled people. Two years ago I took part in the Edmonton World Olympic Championships, and I would like to say in this context: In the context of athletic competitions, there has already been demonstration competitions by disabled athletes, and there were performances to be seen that even as a sportsman torn me off the stool. I believe that this is an important step which will certainly continue to be pursued in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] An important point in this context is, of course, the Austrian federal army. The Austrian Federal Army, I believe, offers more than 220 athletes the opportunity to perform their service there as a performance sportsman, which is a very important social element in terms of performance sports. Performance sports in Austria – apart from football and skiers – would not be possible in this form without the Austrian federal army. It was also true that there was an old system before, where one came as a time soldier to the Austrian federal army, where these benefits could be used for a maximum of nine years – and one also had a right to vocational training. – Today, you are a sportsman there, “Military person on time”, almost an official. And then the athletes also knew that they will not have a pension claim because they do not pay any contributions either. However, the pension reform, which was decided here yesterday, for the first time, these athletes – which is, however, ten or twelve years ago, i.e. longer – have been counted as 30 months of pension contributions; a big step forward for those athletes who were in the Austrian Federal Army at the time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, you have to express great thanks to the Austrian army: It's always there at big events. In this context, I mention only the Ironman triathlon in Klagenfurt, Beach Volleyball events in Carinthia and other major events. Our federal army is always there when you need it, and it always provides active support. Without the Austrian federal army, major events could often not be conducted at all. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: But that won't have any more money if you buy the interceptors!]] In this context I also see the pictures of Kitzbühel in front of me: Once the descent is snowy again, the Bundesheerlers march up and raise snow, so that we can all follow the downhill through television at 11 o'clock. A great thank you again to the Austrian Federal Army, a thank you also to the many clubs and officials, who, through their tireless use, maintain the wide and young sport in Austria so to speak. Thanks to these tireless employees, who really often invest their entire free time – perhaps not always in the sense and interest of their family – in sports, but which make it possible for Austrian associations to achieve a total volume of income and expenditure of over €500 million, with only 15 percent covered by federal, state and local funding. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a lot of money in play – and I have to say: These people are definitely worthy of their honor. – Thank you in the sense of sports!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5946	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5966	Mr President. I would like to encourage you to try to make blocks at this budget chapter. It is precisely these constant jumps between sport, culture, control et cetera. Perhaps there is a method of making this debate more compact in content. It is, as it were, a good tradition that the SPÖ would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the Court of Auditors on the occasion of the debate on the Supreme Institutions, and I too am now doing so with full conviction, because they are really acting exemplaryly, working very well and very professionally. I think, however, that these officials deserved that ÖVP and FPÖ should also be involved in the service law that was presented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Lip confessions alone, as they are traditionally made, are already too few! Respect also for the President of the Court of Auditors, who has proved genuinely firm in recent years. For example, I only recall how Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel and Mr Finanzminister Grasser have created positive budgetary effects in recent years with “expenditure savings”. – Mr President Dr. Fierce has said very firmly that positive effects have been achieved mainly through revenue. Further example: When it comes to the privatisation fetishism of this government, Mr President Dr. Fierce has long called for a concept as regards the ÖIAG. - Or: When Minister Bartenstein said that we have 30 000 officials too much, Mr President Dr. Fiedler said: Before crossing with the lawn mower, you should look at what tasks the officials are carrying out. Mr President, we by the Social Democrats have a good feeling if you are going to chair the Austrian Convention as President. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you donate praise, ladies and gentlemen, of course a little criticism is also allowed. ==References====External links== February – I didn’t like it so much – Mr President Dr. In other words, the number of Members of this House could be reduced to 150. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: I think you didn't like that!]] In principle, I have no problem with this, but I think that we should then say that the Federal Government has increased by two State Secretarys, according to the motto: “Bring your family!” to perhaps calm down some critics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On this occasion, Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel should be made aware that a critic, namely Mr Pröll, is currently dangerously quiet, whereas another critic, Dr. Haider, is currently very, very loud. – But the Federal Chancellor will certainly also have his own interpretations, as he did the “Kurier” of 7th century. March – this is really interesting – has meant: “Save with the government too”. – Well, that’s a nice “spare”: plus two State Secretary! The taxpayers can thank the Federal Chancellor for this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Overall, ladies and gentlemen, one should strengthen legislative and control – and this is very important especially for a federal government that spends twenty million euros on self-consecration and self-advertising. According to the Federal estimates, the total cost of the Court of Auditors is €24 million, and I believe that if you spend so much money, and that is right, for a control organisation, then you should also give ear to the Court of Auditors as regards the conclusion of the largest arms operation in the Second Republic, as regards the withdrawal of hunters. Your already weak argument, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, which you have always brought in the last few days, that the Court of Auditors is only checking ex post, because de facto has long taken the decision per Eurofighter, is no longer valid since yesterday, since you decided to finance it yesterday – and this is now an ex-post check possible. That is why I would like to appeal to you once again before this Treaty is signed: Please wait the few days before the Court of Auditors submits its report on the award! Since you're screwing up before that, Mr. Mainoni, I'm referring to the ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’, in which it says: Grasser's EADS contacts: crass regularity. Minister of Finance Grasser’s private negotiations with Eurofighter providers, according to the SN, offer at least one “rare look”. Ladies and gentlemen! In this matter, not only will the Court of Auditors be responsible in the near future, but it will be quite another institution.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6056	Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6075	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High Representatives of the Supreme Institutions! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me come back to art and culture. I would like to start with a well-known sentence, namely: Most of what we call art today was not called art at the time when it was created, nor was it called art today: neither by the experts nor by the audience. That is, about art, that is, what art is and where focus is to be placed, was and is always discussed. This is good because this discussion about it can already be part of art and culture – if it is well done. If she is Polish, if she is dilettant, then she has nothing to do with art – and not to be represented in the horizon of art at all. For example, when the intentionant of the Vienna Festival Weeks speaks of “Kulturkrieg” and becomes “Kunst-Clausewitz” when 2.7 percent of the federal funds are used – what did Hans Haider call? – to be exposed to "ordinary promotion", and if he, Bondy, speaks of "loss of substance", then his criticism is on tones, for that has nothing to do with art and art criticism at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed so that you can make a little mockery about the amount of this amount, as the Sven Gächter has made – Franz Morak quoted Gächter, I like to say in the direction of “Kurier” – that these are the “Prosecco costs”. The fact that the Prosecco is sponsored was a “rewarding” of Bondy. By the way, to remember: Vienna also stops the basic funding for “basis wien” and goes on to project funding. So Vienna, Mailath-Pokorny, follows the example Morak. Just a little comment. The DEPOT also knows that the €15 000 is the first tranche and therefore cannot be a threat. This was also reported in the letter to DEPOT, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Glawischnig, let me tell you all the truth! [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: But not from you!]] However, it will be most problematic – to stay at the Vienna Festival Weeks – if diletantic social policy is mixed in art and cultural policy and when the acting director comments on pension reform. Perhaps they can do this in a comment or in a newspaper loop, but please don't mention the program magazines, the program booklets, almost according to the motto: Now comes the real message of content! For example, the acting director writes that after this pension reform, pensioners would have to expect up to €70 000 – in which period she does not say – with pension gaps. I can only say this: blaming, blaming, Mrs. Director! Thus, cultural policy cannot be done – and such a thing has nothing to look for in the programme books of the Wiener Festwochen events! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there is enough need for action for the Vienna Festival Week. Just take the Court of Auditors' report – and that's why we're back at 2.7 percent federal funding. According to the report, the amount of the supplementary pension expenditure of two people per year is already as much as the total amount of federal funding. The Court of Auditors has strongly criticised this. Mr Herz, take the Court of Auditors' report seriously from page 1 to the last page, if you already quote from it! Ladies and gentlemen! With “art quality” and with the proclamation of the “art war”, with “loss of substance” it really has nothing to do with, Mrs. Glawischnig! I do not hope to have noticed in the criticism of intendent Vuckovic of the “diagonal” something like the forced xenophobic attacks! What do editors have, what do reporters have, what have journalists said against this vocation – where this is more highly qualified and the predecessors either were no longer available or have worked there for many years in good work?- Oh, my God! – To this end, I would just like to quote the director Kurt Mayer. Of course, Mrs Glavischnig, there are cuts, accent shifts and increases in this budget. That is what I said earlier when talking about art policy. And I also mean that you shouldn't make it too easy. How did you say that? Don't torch around for a few hundred million euros, just give it to those who need it! I am very much in favour of discussing every point of the term, about every euro, about every million euros here – and not easily using tax money around us! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: It's about the procedure!]] Was that a misunderstanding? – You should spend the money more loosely, that was your tenor. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: No!]] I'm for doing it the way it does State Secretary Morak: Focus on setting, accent shift, restructuring in content and form. This means that the taxpayers' money can be dealt with in a moderate manner and that the quality of art and culture is high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6155	I call Mr Brosz. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6173	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! After having had twice the pleasure of making actual corrections to the education budget and generally the government's budget policy, I would like to address this again. It was already remarkable that the response of Minister of Finance Grasser to the criticism of his budget speech was that his figures were in need of interpretation. That's what he admitted himself to. And today the same game starts again from the beginning, and you can only wonder how we are talking about budgetary policy, when we hear it again in the background, according to the figures anyway. – To do this, you have to say: If you look at budgets, you also have to look at the substance! This applies – and I would like to say this again – in particular to the debate, not what you have always announced here by ÖVP and FPÖ, namely, priorities in the field of education, in the field of development, in the field of research. They are to the extent that you suggest simply not to find. The procedure of Minister of Finance Grasser is already baffling. I think this is the case when a company – Mr Wattaul is sitting in front of us; perhaps we can then discuss this – has financial problems, goes to the bank in the meantime, takes up money there, because there are financial problems, but on the other hand, we are not hiding the fact that the liabilities are increasing! - You can't make a budget like that! It must be said, if there is revenue and expenditure, if there are counter-accounts: What is there, what really improves the situation, and what is the result of balance sheet extension or other forms of financing? That's what we've been doing to the Minister of Finance for a long time, that he's been creating very tricky budgets. The tricks are a chapter, but that also has concrete effects. Unfortunately, Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer is no longer here. – To say that we would compare apples with pears and vote the budgets, you can only compare the proposal and not the result, I will give you an example. In the Committee on Budgets They are also very proud to note that in the alternative schools the budgets have been depleted, namely through re-translations, increasing to five times – and that is not little, just: The problem is that, if it is not in the budget, there is no claim either. There's inside: €75 000, but they get €350 000 each year to make a new decision. The problem is just: Organisations, in which case the alternative schools, cannot rely on it. They learn during the year whether they get it or not. This, of course, means a massive uncertainty! No planning can be done in this way! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's not that simple. There are already real interests behind it, and I therefore believe that we should deal with budgetary policy and with guarantees more serious than you do here. Unfortunately, there is no State Secretary Schweitzer, whose chapter is being dealt with here too. I could have said a few positive things to him, but I'm doing it anyway: I believe that what is happening in the field of sport promotion, especially in these two budgets, is quite interesting, especially the fact that for the first time the teaching of existing structures is not one to one, but rather sets priorities, particularly in the field of disabled sports, is also in the field of women's sports promotion, which we also very much welcome. Whether this will be observed or not, we will still see, but at least the requirement is there. This is welcome, even if that means that existing organisations, umbrella organisations, trade associations, so all who have received money so far, do not get the same amount of money. But we insist that there should be priorities here. I believe that the previous activity of the State Secretary has brought some refreshing aspects to the point that he is at least trying to shake up existing structures. As this rumbling will end, there is another chapter. We'll see if he falls on his head, what comes from above, if you shake, or if he can really do something. I can only wish him a few things to be enforceable. I believe that in particular in the field of sport promotion, it is really important not to simply do one thing in one, what has been said over the last decades – almost I would have said: ==References====External links== He told me himself that the target fishing in the country, i.e. the casting, is included in the federal sport promotion. I was totally surprised that there was this sport. It is therefore not in the water, but on a meadow, and there is support and support for that. I think that there are new priorities that could also be considered, and there were other things that could be used for. If he achieves something, he should have our support with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6247	The next speaker is Mr Mainoni. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6265	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Volksanwalt, I should first like to thank the People's Procuratorate very much. Especially for us national councillors, who receive a number of interventions, the Public Prosecutors' Office is a very well-known, popular and, above all, very efficient point of contact in the event of concerns of our citizens, who can also treat and resolve the lawyers accordingly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If I hear the SPÖ Members speaking on the subject of budget, of course I always think a lot. I recall the last weeks of the Red-Black government, Mr Edlinger, the Minister of Finance, who, because the budget has been completely out of line, said: There is still a net deficit of – then – 20 billion schilling. One did not know what was meant by the expression “net deficient. ” Dear günter stupid, you will remember: The net deficit was beyond normal debt, while respecting the Maastricht criteria. In addition, there were still 20 billion missing. That is to say, the SPÖ did not come to an end with the budget at all. I can remember Lore Hostasch, who said: There is no hole in the financing of social security schemes. After the election it was then so far: 6 billion schilling, one had to admit, missing. However, I can also recall the 1970s and 1980s, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ – there are only a few of them here today – in which the national lights were financed in order to finally give up all the jobs there. A complete misdevelopment, sins that we all now have to repay! These were the first steps in public debt in the 1970s. Bruno Kreisky may have played an important role as an foreign politician for Austria, but economic and financial policy was a disaster this time. Back then, it started making debt. Just to remember: Bruno Kreisky has shaped the very popular expression: “I prefer a few hundred million more debts than a few hundred unemployed.” – Yes, that sounds popular, but that was the beginning of this debt mountain that was ultimately made. He has pursued only half the theses of John Maynard Keynes, namely the anticyclic behaviour of the state in his spending. In times of economic recession, of course, the state should spend, but in times when the economy is flourishing, the state would have to save again. – The SPÖ did not succeed, that was the foundation for this debt. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I will come to the specific issue: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There is a budget-post crossing in 2001 and 2002 of a person who lives almost across the street, i.e. on the other side of the ring, from the Supreme Organ, from the “Replacedkaiser in the Hofburg” – “The whole week” – by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. He, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who so often exhorts the forward-looking provision in the state budget – I can remember his words – is striking financially himself over the strands. The head of state needs at least four service weights and four drivers. For comparison: The Federal Chancellor has a van and a chauffeur; on it one may form his rhyme. In 2001, a total budget exceeding € 1 million was already available. At that time the so-called travel war had broken out. To remember: The war of travel took place in such a way that the President of the Federal Republic and his wife were against the Foreign Minister on foreign travel, and everyone tried to get the best destinations. This happened with 1 million € overrun to beech; this year it was 620 000 €. He is always on the way in the private jet, even on trips between Vienna, Linz and Salzburg with the Privatjet in order not to be subject to the time pressure – according to his own definition. Representative expenditure of a total of €1.6 million for 2002 instead of the estimated €450 – this is already a considerable excess. I believe that the head of state should be a model for Austria, but it should also be an example of austerity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6341	The next speaker is Mrs Muttonen. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6362	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! - He disappeared. There is no one there anymore, I find that remarkable, since we are talking about the chapter art. Ladies and gentlemen! So I now have this idea of the government parties and the Secretary of State on art and culture cast into figures, and this leads me to the following conclusions. Mr State Secretary wherever you are, I am afraid that will not be in line with your wishes. [[State Secretary Morak: Behind you!]] For example, I cannot resist the impression that there has once again been no topic in the negotiations on the 2003 and 2004 budgets. The art budget continues to muffle. The funding has clearly not reached the level of 1999 for the coming years, and that is really no reason for any kind of self-satisfaction, Mr State Secretary and ladies and gentlemen from the government parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is known that budgets are good benchmarks for the importance that will be granted to an area. So you have the impression that this area, art and culture, is not really important to you. Empathetic and essential, however, is that you go one step further and also frustrate and harass numerous representatives of the art and cultural scene. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: Who is harassing?]] Mrs Brinek – I do not see you at the moment – you condemn the word “war of culture”. Let's assume that's B in a sequence, then I'll ask myself: What was A? And I can tell you what happened before: Before that came a robbery, namely an attack-like removal of subsidies on the first day of the Vienna Festival weeks, without warning, for this now ongoing period. And that's not exactly the fine way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There have been several symbolic actions in these directions. The examples are known: the cuts in critical art and culture creators, the disassembly of the management of the Graz diagonals, fixed-week subsidies and current redistribution discussions. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Contract expired, not disassembly!]] As part of this chapter, sport is also discussed, so this fits very well here. This redistribution discussion is considered a match by observers, as a match between you and the Red Vienna. In this way, it is generally classified. I also consider this redistribution debate to be a distraction maneuver. The tactics should be to turn up as much dust as possible to hide behind that the art of the government is very little worth. The cultural crisis caused by the government is now truly going to the foundations, the open cultural climate is disturbed and poisoned, small spirits and revanchism are felt. [[Abg. Großruck: The state artists!]] The importance of providing basic cultural services to civil society is clearly not available to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's what you're talking about!]] The resignation among the artists is accordingly large. Their restrictive promotion policy forces creatives and artists to deal with the safeguarding of their mere existence and not so much with their creative potential, which means a lot is lost for Austria. Support commitments or the disbursement of funds must wait for months for cultural initiatives. This not only affects individual cases. For example, in June 2003, some of the initiatives still do not know if they can pay for the employees they have employed in 2003. And that is not reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, this is unworthy of a cultural nation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I have one more question to you, Mr State Secretary. Your commitment to the Austrian artistic film and its promotion, which you have made here today and also at the survey a year ago, is obviously still true if I have understood it correctly. And here I would like to say – you mentioned Cannes, you mentioned Venice –: You know very well that the film has a very long lead and that film promotion, as it existed by the year 2000, has contributed significantly to this. In rumor, behind closed doors – which seems to be your specialty – a deep conversion of Austrian film promotion is prepared, and I would like to know: When will this novelle be reviewed for film promotion? What's her content? I very much hope that at least in this case the stakeholders will be involved, because that would be very important, otherwise to remain in the military language of the ÖVP, producing such rapid shots and carrier missiles, where no one is involved, as was the case with the TV Film Fund, for example. The interested parties were not invited. By the way, the Court of Auditors has pointed out that it would be highly recommended to make this area the task of the Austrian Film Institute. Ladies and gentlemen! The government took place in 2000, exactly on 4 July 2000. February, adopted by art and cultural policy. Today, three years later, she still hasn't entered this stage. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6484	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6503	Mr President. Dear members of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A balanced budget beyond the economic cycle is the budgetary guideline of the Federal Government and is reflected in the 2003 and 2004 budgets. With the double budget for the years 2003/2004, the Federal Government continues its successful stability course. The draft budget for the 2003 Federal Government estimates revenue of € 57.5 billion and expenditure of € 61.5 billion. In 2004 expenditure of €59.14 billion and revenue of €62.57 billion is planned. We must not be afraid of the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria either. Unlike the Federal Republic of Germany or France, we will by no means reach the deficit limit. Future-oriented expenditure on training, research and infrastructure has been increased to strengthen our top position in the European Union. The increase in the research allowance to 15 percent is an important measure, Austria is an important research location. An example: In international comparison, Vienna is among the best in the world in the field of biological and medical research. This will continue with the funding of the Austrian Foundation by the Austrian National Bank. Research and development are important to us! [[Abg. Thank you!]] As a human rights spokesperson, I have devoted particular attention to the field of ethnic groups and our disabled people. I mean, one recognizes the quality of a society in social relations with its minorities or disadvantaged and disabled fellow citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this area too, Austria, as in so many in the European Union, is in the forefront. People's promotion remains the same, no cent less is spent on the promotion of the ethnic groups. On the contrary: In the past legislative period, we have succeeded in anchoring the ethnic groups as a state target. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are committed to the ethnic groups, we are making our contribution in order to secure and promote their language, culture and population. Personally, it is a special concern for me that this culture of co-existence continues to remain in full variety. The ethnic groups are an essential enrichment of Austria. We are often envied by that. Now, before EU enlargement, we can only benefit from our situation in the heart of Europe, from open culture and from respect for others. Our traditional good relations with our neighbours will be particularly helpful. The groups in Austria have also made a big contribution to these good relations. At €3.7 million, the funding for the groups is also included in the 2003 and 2004 budgets. The necessary resources are now committed, and their distribution can begin. But I just want to lose a few words on this division. In Austria, among other things, there are about three equally large groups: Slovenian, Hungary, Croatia. In 2002, Slovenians and Croats received around €1.1 million in funding, Hungary, whose number exceeds a little more than that of Slovenians and Croats, only about €300 000, although the work of the Hungarian people group – which is spread throughout the federal state due to the settlement structure – is very difficult. I therefore call on the responsible officials to take account of this particular difficulty in promoting, or even better: We, the National Council, will create our own funding scenario. The Federal Government and I are particularly concerned about fair treatment and promotion of the disabled. It is important to me that the employment offensive for people with disabilities can be continued this year too. The new budgeting with € 72 million is secured. All people have a right to a job, and it is our responsibility to provide the rightful support to disabled citizens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6556	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The clock is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6575	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen – also on the government bank! There has to be a text generator somewhere, where, I don't know yet, but in the ranks of government parties, the signs increase that you are talking to a very good text generator. Mix the words “responsible”, “development”, “courses”, “budget” and “deficit” and construct the budget speech from it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: “Competence”!]] I have now heard from you: ‘responsible development’, ‘responsible course’, ‘responsible budget’ and ‘responsible deficit’. This can be combined with “responsible budget rate”, “responsible deficit development” and further variations. It is wonderful that one does not actually need to participate in the debate. I was out very briefly now and I thought when I got back in, I heard this, colorfully mixed, with the same text blocks of development, course, budget and deficit in similar variations. Border genius! Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: So far you have said nothing else!]] I think it is a bit common to you that only the Minister of Finance has the right to mix the texts from the advertising industry. I think that's mean. There you should really make efforts to be able to mix even in your text generator “Oh it’s a Feh, oh it’s a budget!”. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's at 3:00 a.m.!]] [[Abg. Friend: Is nothing more coming?]] It is exciting, but the tension also has its limits, for example, where we should discuss it – and some of the speakers have tried to do so – why in the 2002 budget year the big discrepancies between the proposal and the budget result appear. What was the cause of these large, partly truly amazing discrepancies in the proposal and then in the budget success? [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] There is no other resolution – this is obvious: if you look at individual budget chapters, then you see, this is going to be quite apart; Mr Wattaul is already listening very interested – as if you were trying to construct a zero deficit that did not actually exist. Mr Wattaul, try it! Go through the chapters individually! Look You are looking forward to 2002, and you will notice that this is striking in 2002. Mr Sburny has then expanded the criticism, because it generally divides well in individual areas between the proposal and the budget. But as far as the year 2002 is concerned, it is already very amazing that this year you were obviously not responsible enough to keep and control budget planning and success beyond the text generator as it would have been necessary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Two more comments. It's all right, Secretary of State, to see you sitting behind me now. I can only pass on to you what Mr Muttonen said about criticism. I think it is amazing that you started a debate that, although apparently lying at a certain level, still addresses the original instincts in Austria. Tag “Obergeer Shakespeare”. I am not against the fact that Shakespeare is being played well in Obergering or elsewhere, but it is consciously opposed to instrumentalizing an art and cultural scene that forms mainly in the urban area, which I think is worrying, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: However, we still have freedom of expression!]] On the other hand, in addition to what has happened around the Vienna Festival weeks, the problem that the Secretary of State obviously has with the cultural scene in Vienna is also reflected in the fact that the cultural and art scene has to wait half a to three-quarters of a year before it receives the funds from the current budget, because these funds are held back for so long, and every year it is said that it is not possible, that is not possible... [[Objection to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's the same thing in Vienna's promotion!]] [[State Secretary Morak: I can't do that either! We are only now deciding on the budget!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is the same with the Vienna promotion!]] We are dealing with the budget today, but you have had a provisional budget before. But no, the cultural initiatives, many initiatives have not yet received the money. You know that as well as I do. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But they received written messages!]] You should therefore not refer to the budget on the one hand, which is decided today only if you at the same time admit that they could have already received the money on the basis of the provisional budget. Process Please don't object! The point is that – we speak quite openly –: Mr State Secretary, you obviously do not have a clear relationship to the cultural scene, even to the criticism of your person. I understand that it is not easy, as an art-state secretary, to deal with an extremely suspicious person – also suspiciously with you as a person, because you yourself come from the cultural scene, from the art scene – but it cannot be that the whole art and culture scene in Austria, if it is in urban space, suffers from it and that your problem and your personal relationships – no, I have no problem, neither with the State Secretary nor with the art and culture scene – are carried out at the expense of the cultural scene. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It’s not his job to be everyone’s Darling!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You have a problem, he doesn't!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I notice that this is a wound point with you. [[Lively contradiction with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Not at all!]] – No, no, “not at all”! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A final remark. I am sorry, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, I am whispering to you so to speak. But, of course, I am excited – because you can't do anything about it at all, I have only noticed it in the debates on the political relations of the last days and weeks – that the presentation of what we spend on pensions, on the basis of the different responsibility – on the one hand, the President of the National Council, on the other hand, the Federal Chancellor's Office – is very difficult to get a description of what is being spent in this area as a whole. If one still calculates the old references of the federal states, there are a total of eleven responsibilities in this area, in an area that is no longer very important in the budget – thank God – beyond the individual references. But that was only so whispered to you because, of course, the Court of Auditors has to exercise control, but it is our problem, the problem of the National Council, which responsibilities it decides in this area. And I mean, Eleven different responsibilities for the execution of pension rights, of which two are at federal level, is too much!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6804	Mrs Rosenkranz has now been reported to the House. Even chosen time limit: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6823	Mr President. My dear gentlemen on the government bank! The speakers of the opposition have drawn a gloomy picture – no, you've been in the middle of it – and as far as women's politics is concerned, this policy and the budget have even been damned in the ground and the ground. [[Abg. Oils: No, not at all!]] [[Abg. Oils: That's it!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, who are not very numerous here now, that was a bit polemic. [[Abg. Oil: What was polemic?]] Be honest! You may not have meant this so seriously, especially if you are using a little bit of your long-term memory and if you are looking at the two budgets you have been responsible for as the last two. I can remind you: There were already in the mid-1990s – in word creations you were also not quite lazy – so-called structural adjustment measures – vulgo the two savings packages, if I may remember; the folk mouth immediately and aptly recognized what this is all about, and that was actually shocking. There have been things inside, it has not allowed any government before. For example, the fact that the family allowance was reduced from 1992 was totally surprising to me at the time, as someone who had just entered politics. I didn't think you could trust that. There was the withdrawal of the birth grant. This was devastating for the financial situation of families, but also for health policy prevention, because we now know that this has reduced the number of young children's studies by 20 percent. This is true of those who urgently need it, because the parents are not organized to the extent that they make the self-responsible, without financial incentive, to represent exactly the ones you always pretend to represent, just whose children have not been regularly brought to the doctor. This is something that you clearly have to answer and which opposes what you have to say rhetorically. The self-holds on the school books were introduced – I can remember very well, because at the beginning of the school I did not get through with all the certificates. These restraints have made no more careful use of the school books at all, not at all, but have massively burdened parents, especially at the beginning of school. There was also self-retaining in school leave trips, and home travel aid was gone. It was a real family-political balding. I don't know if your honourable Member was a woman's minister at the time. [[Abg. Oillinger: There has been no women's ministry in the last three years!]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You should also look over to the ÖVP! She was there at the time!]] - No, it was you! Your chancellor, your wife's minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I don't want to have to answer that. And I can tell you one thing: Under free government participation, it will not come to such a thing with great certainty, with absolute certainty! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What happened to free government in 2000 was a real paradigm change: Children's money. Thus, for the first time, the performance of child rearing was recognized as a socially necessary and therefore also materially supportive performance. I can also remember the debate on child money. At the time, the well-thinking critics said: You will never be able to afford that, completely unthinkable, can't! – I therefore note with great satisfaction: Children's money is probably spent in the budget. And not just that: Mrs Haubner, Secretary of State, in which these agendas are in good hands, has been able to announce that we have now also found a solution for multiple births. So this child money is well-instructed, well budgeted and will stay. This government – unlike what happened sometime – does not always face a wave of outrage. As far as child benefits are concerned, there was at least a wave of consent. That is also what you need in family policy and what you have to do. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: When is the next National Council election?]] You have also fundamentally criticized the child money for ideological considerations, simply and simply because you have a very, very great distrust of the independence and decision-making capacity of women. They always suspect the women that they're getting into traps, baby traps, check traps, other traps. At last admit that it is important to admit to women that they can decide for themselves! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We believe it is beneficial for small children when they are in domestic care, often by mothers, sometimes also by fathers. – You feel that it would be unfavourable for women to believe that children are a real obstacle to work. Let's try it dialectically: You have your antithesis on our thesis. Let's just try it out with the synthesis and admit that we can solve this with the freedom of choice. And that is exactly what has been done with this child money! That is why I am very happy and confident about the measures taken by the Federal Government in the area of women and family policy. For what women need is a sober look at their reality of life, their needs, a look that is not adjusted by ideological barriers. The resulting policy of this government – which I am convinced of – and it can be seen very well in the budget – will bring these things to heart.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6961	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Kuntzl 5 minutes to us. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: To us, too?]] Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6989	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Rosenkranz! We will have a detailed opportunity in the next debate to deal with family policy. It is true that there have also been savings packages in earlier stages, in stages when the SPÖ has borne government responsibility, with painful measures. I still regret, for example, the withdrawal of birth aid today. I'd be glad if we had the opportunity to reintroduce her again. I have always thought it a very effective and important measure, also from the point of view of redistribution. However, there is a significant difference to the policy you are now making and also contributing, colleague Rosenkranz: They operate an offensive system in which the state withdraws and adopts step by step from responsibility, and this is to a much greater extent a socially unbalanced policy which will bring much more to bear in this country. [[Call out to the liberals: such a fool!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7019	Mr Scheuch! Have I heard the word “foolishness ” or have I had a hallucination? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: More like the latter!]] So I didn't hear it. [[Abg. Wattaul: That was a private conversation!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: So that really can't be a question of order, if you say "fucky"!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Please continue, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7081	I understand your excitement, but maybe you could give me your attention again. Just one more comment, Mrs Rosenkranz. Of course, I do not believe that children in themselves are an obstacle to employment – I think you have. The children are not, of course! The obstacle to employment is the lack of infrastructure that would have to be available to help women, in particular, to know their children well and to work alongside them. That is the point, and of course not the children themselves. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr. State Secretary Morak, in your discussion with the Wiener Kulturszene, you have been working with very individual figures for weeks. We tell you again and again – and you know it now, you do it consciously –: The breakdown of funds by state, which you quote, is due to the fact that the allocation is simply and simply followed by the address in which the state is located, where the person concerned makes his application or where the bank institution is. – This cannot be the basis for a cultural policy action! When you clean these numbers, it turns out that this looks completely different. You probably know the numbers at least as well as I do. For example, if you use what you attribute to Vienna to clean up various biennial contributions that result in a sum of € 1 million, or if you clean them up – I quote now a second number – around the subsidies of about € 10 million that the Austrian film institute receives, then the thing looks quite different and then of course it is so that you have to count Vienna much, much less directly. Of course, Vienna also has to assume a capital function in cultural policy, and of course it is so that many cultural institutions volunteer – they could also go to Graz – in Vienna and have their office here, but their work is over-regional. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is Graz! Graz is the capital of culture!]] This means that you have to clean up the numbers and that the figures you call, for example for institutions that work over regionally, but have their headquarters in Vienna, cannot be shown as national culture promotion. That's a big difference, and I'd ask you to work fair numbers here. I come to about 30 percent share in Vienna. [[Interlocutory remark by Secretary-General Morak.]] – I said clean. [[New interim remark by Secretary of State Morak.]] – Well, then let’s look at your numbers and discuss them further. After speaking about a symbolic measure in your measure to the Vienna Festival Weeks, I consider this to be an announcement that there is still a lot ahead here. Mr State Secretary, perhaps you could also tell us at this point what such further “symbolic measures” you have to expect from the Wiener Kulturszene.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7143	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dr. Fekter's word. It's done for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7161	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Mrs. Volksanwaltin Rosemarie Bauer! Mr. Volksanwalt Kostelka! First of all, I would like to thank the People's Procuratorate very much for the good cooperation we have with the People's Procuratorate. I have a wealth of intervention cases in which I can't help and pass them on to the public prosecutor's office. So far, I have always received a very positive feedback. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With regard to the suggestion of the attorney Rosemarie Bauer regarding the bill “right to light” or the problems we have with Thujenhecken, I can tell you that we will probably receive a presentation here in autumn and will be able to implement the suggestion of the public prosecutor already this year. I now come to the comments made by Mr Kuntzl. I too would like to address the problem that Vienna has actually exhausted the cultural subsidies disproportionately so far. It is God's thanks to the current budget not a mere continuation of numbers, but it has quite clear new impulses; Details have already been provided. Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the fact that he has so far carried out a re-transmission of subsidies to the Federal Republic of Germany with a focus on Vienna. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: Just distribution!]] Excellent cultural achievements are being performed throughout Austria and not only in the Federal Capital! Mr Oellinger, excellent cultural achievements are also available in the non-urban area. [[Abg. Oillinger: Did I say something?]] So it is not justified simply to promote urban space. [[Abg. Zweytick: (in the direction of Abg. Oellinger) Have you ever been to Oberzering?]] When it became known that State Secretary Morak is making reworks, there was a media campaign immediately. [[Abg. Oillinger: The problem is the mutual playout!]] In my opinion, it is an intolerable superiority if, in Vienna, the cultural achievements of the federal states are treated here as provincial. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] For many years, Vienna has exhausted 75 percent of the cultural budget such as the cream from milk. For all the other federal states, only the remaining quarter remained. At the same time, Vienna is also disproportionately promoting the mixed funding, which is only 50 percent. – The other 50 percent bear the federal government. In the federal states, we are used to a third of the state, a third of the federal government and a third of the municipality. This misunderstanding between the federal states and Vienna is offset by this budget. The socialist reaction to the budget cut for the Vienna Festival Weeks by 2%, which was said to be only the “Prosecco money”, was immeasurably overburdened. In connection with what happened at the time to talk about “cultural struggle, ” only in the choice of words is totally in addition. The Socialist Members in the Committee on Budgets voted in this pity. It is not quite understandable to me, honestly, that Mr Wittmann, a Lower Austrian, fought only for the Vienna budget, that Colleague Muttonen, a Carinthian, even fought for the Vienna budget, and that in blind Kadergeobehmen, also colleague Reheis, a Tyrolean, fought only for the cultural budget of the capital city of Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The Reheis from Tyrol!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! Are you really? Your constituencies and cultural achievements in your federal states are not worth nothing at all? [[Abg. May. Worm: Audio tracks!]] [[Abg. Faul:... will all Oberzering know or Vienna?]] Don't you like the cultural achievements in the federal states? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As the Upper Austrian, I am at least very happy and grateful to Mr Morak, the State Secretary, that he has implemented this very good idea, which our head of state Dr. Josef Pühringer, the financial and cultural representative, has called for massively at the national cultural conference in Upper Austria, and that it is thus implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7320	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Lunacek. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7339	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me start with a few words of thanks to Parliament's Directorate for the support it always gives us. I would particularly like to thank the staff of the international service. . I ask the President to pass that on. They are the ones who support us not only through a “physical role” on trips abroad, by carrying the papers and the various transports everywhere, but also in terms of content and organisation to ensure that these journeys actually run as lubricated. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think that's worth a special thank you. These colleagues work in the background, and I am very pleased that this support will continue in the future – and I hope so – so that no sand will get into the drive of these trips abroad. – Thank you very much for your work! A few words also to Chancellor Schüssel, who today, although my previous speaker Terezija Stoisits also asked him not to comment on the question of the financing of the cultural community. [[Abg. Lens: The best there ever was!]] In my opinion and in my group's opinion, it is a scandal that in Austria more than 50 years after the end of the National Socialist regime, the Jewish communities here in Austria are at risk of their existence and that it is not possible by this Federal Government to continue to ensure this funding. The only thing that was said was that there should be a loan that will later be offset. Federal Chancellor! – Unfortunately, he's not here anymore! – I think this is a scandal in this Republic, and I urge you not only to grant this loan, but to actually secure the funding of the cultural community and also to express yourself publicly and not just to leave colported things in the room, such as that you do not want to support “delegated Mossad people”. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Another point to mention here after the reading of today's newspapers: It has always been your concern, and you have often spoken of depoliticizing the structures of this republic. It should no longer be party-political. What do I have to read today? – The General Council of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank has nominated Ewald Novotny, who has previously worked in the European Investment Bank, one of the most renowned Austrian bankers with international experience, unanimously as Vice Governor. What do I have to hear? – The Austrian Federal Government says this is a red one, that is not possible. [[Abg. May. Posch: He’s “incompetent! ”]] He can't be in that he's incompetent. – The only person who actually has this international experience from the above candidates is not to get this place? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Is everything red anyway...!]] [[Abg. Oils: Determining!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you really do, then this case proves that you are not concerned with depoliticization, but only with the fact that this country is to be coloured even more blacker than it is. Blue – fortunately, I say – is no longer present, but black alone is not the color that this Republic has. It's red-white-red! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: Rosenstingl!]] Let me now, even if State Secretary Schweitzer is not here today, but let me say a few words about sport, which is also in this chapter. The two sports spokesmen of the government groups, Haubner and Lichtenegger, were full of praise for the fact that now more is being done for wide-ranging sports, for the promotion of the disabled and also for major events. That's where we agree with you. Both, but above all Mr Haubner, have mentioned very precise figures to show the importance of major sporting events for the Austrian economy. I agree with you. But the question I ask from my side is: What about the ecological sustainability of these major events, with the “ecological future ability” to use a phrase from your text generator? – These topics have not occurred with both speakers. [[Abg. Oils: They don't happen, the words!]] One was only full of praise for the football in connection with the European Championship. - Yeah, well, we got her. In terms of application for the Olympics, we Greens are a little different, but whether the supplement is given is no longer in our hands. [[Abg. Neudeck: Thank God!]] But where are your demands that there should also be transport concepts there that actually fulfil this name and not just as the IOC suggests, that there should be enough parking space there? – In the view of the Greens, this is not a transport concept with an ecological background, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The federal government, which is also co-financed, can and should set conditions. It often says that you have to make enough parking, because everyone comes by car. I give you an example of how this may work differently: In Vienna's Praterstadion, the main avenue for parking is usually opened at the fair, at football events or similar events. What happened at the Grönemeyer concert? – The main alley was not opened, but there was no traffic shock because people knew it and went by public transport. [[Abg. Zweytick: In Vienna this is happening!]] This proves: It is possible, you just have to want it and you have to bring it into the transport concepts. – I call on you and the Secretary of State to do so with regard to major events in Austria. Another point is whether other structures are being created for successful professional associations – i.e. those whose athletes are successful in the top sports sector – so that this can be sustainable. The answer to our question from the Committee on Budgets was not quite clear. I am particularly concerned that structures are being created in areas such as table tennis or swimming, where great successes are now being achieved, so that young people can continue this path. I hope you're going to work in this direction. One last point: I have already mentioned the promotion of the disabled, which we also welcome. But I noticed that the two sports spokesmen of the government groups did not mention that there is also more money for women and girls promotion. This is a concern that is also important to us. I'm glad that happens. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You had little time!]] – They had too little time? I think they'd already come out these few words. I hope that the fact of the importance of women's and girls' sports will also be included in the text generators of the ÖVP and FPÖ sports speakers in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7513	Mrs Mag. Muttonen referred to an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7535	Mr President. High house! Mrs Fekter claimed that I had fought only for the Vienna cultural budget. - That's not true! It is true, on the other hand, that I fought for the budget, as a federal politician for the federal budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7572	Mrs Rossmann is now speaking for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7591	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear representatives of the People's Procuratorate! There has already been a lot of general talk today and a lot in detail about certain chapters. I would like to make the point that, through my work as State Secretary for Tourism, I had the opportunity to come to Austria in areas which were not otherwise visited. [[Abg. DDr. Deweiser: Look, these things are forgotten so quickly!]] I often thought for myself: Austria is really one of the most beautiful countries in the world! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Not only tourism benefits. Especially in the last two years, tragically since the 11th century. September, Austria has a record of success in tourism due to the increased arrival from the nearby area by car, bus or train. But Austria also gains in the quality of its location because of its beauty. We know that many companies are more and more focusing on the quality of the site in their operations. Thus, even in areas in which no farms have been established so far, we have been able to settle farms because of the beauty and also the accessibility and proximity to other countries, such as the Styria or Carinthia to Slovenia and Italy, which was not yet possible one, two years ago. Mr Lunacek spoke about sustainability. Sustainability is discussed at all levels, not only in the environmental field, but also in the social sector or in the budget and economic sectors. Yesterday, we passed 91 budget-accompanied laws, which focus on sustainability and sustainable measures. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Apart from the pension reform, however, there are also – and this is important! – sustainable incentives, both in the labour market and in the social and economic sectors. These sustainable incentives are intended to have steering effects in order to ensure location security and quality in the future. It is precisely from the opposition that the tax reform is not presented in this way, but we do not expect anything else after these last weeks, even in the pension debate. [[Abg. Reheis: I didn't expect anything else from you now!]] I can only tell you once again: This tax reform will benefit a total of 1.65 million workers by increasing the general amount of the deposit and the looping system – from which you do not want to know anything at all – up to a gross annual income of €21 800! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of this, 350 000 single-earners and single-parents – educators, 730 000 pensioners and – as I am pleased – 60,000 self-employed people – have been addressed today by our colleague Kuntzl. – These are the micro-enterprises who urgently need every giant. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Even if you always say that is just a few euros, 50 €, 80 €, 400 € or 500 € a year: It is precisely this shift that every euro, every cent, and exactly the opposite argument, you have brought about pension insurance in the debate. You would have to make the arguments quite clear and clear in order not to contradict yourself again and again! Every schilling, every cent is required, and so it is also important that the unscathed profits are now taxed. This too has been made ridiculous again today. I said to Mr Kogler yesterday that I would invite him to one of the small businesses to discuss the balance sheet. – He will see how the balance sheets look! If one can make any profit at all and then not have to tax it in full or not, but can invest again, then it is simply a relief that would have been a long time ago commandment of the hour. We liberals have already recorded this in the 2000 Coalition Convention. We've written it down and put it on it. At the time, however, it was not possible for the Minister of Finance to move away from the zero deficit. It didn't seem opportun, you know the story. However, we are pleased that it is at least part of this package now and is being implemented. They also do not want to hear that there is a reduction in additional labour costs. Your voters, however, the workers will be happy about it! For the first time, there is also a reduction in additional labour costs for workers. This was also an hour's commandment to simply be competitive again in the labour market and to make Austria competitive internationally. The strategy you have pursued in the last decades of socialist financial policy was that in Austria, business settlements have simply been promoted by billions of public funds, knowing that these companies have already been outsourced to low-cost countries in five years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Faul and Mr Reheis.]] That was your financial policy. - Ours looks different. We want to secure Austria's economic location. I would also like to address the chapter on lifelong learning. These are always so keywords, even in your era. What are we doing now? – Lifelong learning is promoted. What is it if it is not a support that can now be reduced to tuition fees? If the professional goes on the extremely difficult path of completing a proper course of study, then it is more than legitimate to be able to drop these tuition fees by tax now. However, the extension of the reference to unemployment benefit is now guaranteed if a person takes part in a training measure. – There is legal certainty here now. [[Abg. May. Posch: (in the direction of Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch, with the State Secretary sitting on the Government Bank. Schweitzer speaks) It's an unhappiness that they do a chat hour!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors and the public prosecutors. I mean, the People's Procuratorate is really the last instance of so-called red tape victims. If you look at the report, you notice that the biggest cases are administrative cases. This shows once again that the Convention is important and that administrative competences need to be cleaned in order to be able to really avoid red tape victims. I have also had much to do with people and cases in which one can no longer explain why the authority has acted in this way. There are interrelationships of laws that overlap each other and so on. I have to say it's really extraordinary what you're doing from the People's Procuratorate. I am also pleased – I consider it more often as a television viewer – if the lawyers – thank God! – also have their appearance in the public and thus a new self-understanding of the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office is also documented in the public. A warm thank you! I am particularly pleased with the party independence you care for. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7716	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7734	High house! Unfortunately, the Federal Chancellor has abstained from the debate on his budget chapter. Nevertheless, it must not be quite contrary to what he said about his pension reform, which he almost conjured and maligned. He meant no one's going to lose it. – I claim: Everyone will lose! His chief of officials Fritz Neugebauer, who is not here now, said it quite clearly in his broadcasts. He said: 45 years of insurance are sufficient, and if a pension system does not allow for a discount-free pension after 45 years of insurance, it is contemptible and needs to be changed. I understand the duty of loyalty under which he stands. I understand the pressure under which he came, as did Mrs Gehrer at the time, when it was about the introduction of the tuition fees to which the same pressure was exposed. So I don't follow Fritz Neugebauer. But it remains: A system that introduces massive reductions and at the same time increases the retirement age to 65 is contemptuous, and it leads to dramatic reductions in pensions, even if the Federal Chancellor claims otherwise. In fact, this is the late revenge of the Haider FPÖ. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch, “late revenge ”?]] After her political marginalisation, she has come through here with her ideas on harmonisation and pension reform, and I do not want to define what I mean in the substance. The Economic Research Institute has said that it is simply not true that the system will be too expensive in the next few years. Both the federal grant to pensions and the total amount of pension will be reduced. That is, in fact, this pension reform was not necessary in the matter, it is a purely procurement action for the budget. The Federal Chancellor also knew this because he himself enforced early retirements in the public service. The state – and now I am not talking about the blackouts in the various ministries – has ridded itself of all its old officials and sent them to the early retirement. So what the state is proposing is exactly what you do not want in the pension reform. I would like to make a few comments on the subject of ethnic groups. In the meantime, the recognition of the Constitutional Court concerning the Carinthian local panels has become effective since 1. January. Nevertheless, there is no decision. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has defended in the Committee that the Conference of Consensus has not reached an agreement. But consensus conference, the regulation has to be adopted by the Federal Chancellor! One cannot speak on the one hand of the ÖGB and of the “print of the road” that one would not bow down to because the decision-making is taking place here in Parliament and because the laws are to be observed, and on the other hand simply does not adopt a regulation, although the Constitutional Court has prescribed it. It is measured by two measures. I should also like to point out that since 1998 the promotion of groups has been stagnating essentially, which is in stark contradiction with the state target and also with the preamble of the coalition government of 1999. That would have been said here. Finally, a few remarks were allowed to me on a very serious matter, namely to the Israeli cultural community. I refer – and colleague Stoisits has already described this in her remarks today very correctly and very well – to the letter of the Israeli cultural community, which refers to what was done to the Austrian Jews between 1938 and 1945, namely the murder of 65,000 parishioners and the expulsion of 135,000 Jews from Austria, and it was almost unthinkable that after the war a Jewish community would arise again. Many intellectuals have fled from Austria, and they have not returned to Austria after the war, which has seriously damaged Austria. Therefore, I believe that there is an obligation on the Republic to help this not small Jewish community, but small Jewish community. For that, I think you must have a feeling. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That must not be true!]] I believe that the existence of a Jewish community in Austria is important and that a democratic country that acknowledges human rights and the European society of values must also be committed to supporting it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: I'll tell some Carinthian friends!]] What do you mean? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We prefer to support our miners!]] Please? – This is a very interesting call: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We prefer to support our miners!]] Let us rather support our miners than the Jewish community in the city! . I would like to have this here in favour of the Minutes. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: Yes!]] This is a very interesting perspective. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Scheuch said that!]] In fact, we are not used to anything else by the Freedom Party. But at the ÖVP, I still suspect that some one sitting here is capable of thinking in a clear mind and in a reasonable way. That is why I say that there must be an interest of the Republic in the preservation of an old religious community that has grown for centuries. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: equipped with many millions!]] Since the offer of a loan or the reference to possible project funding or the possibility of a loan is of no use, the State has – and I am with Mr Stoisits – the obligation to intervene here, according to all that the Jewish community in the Third Reich had to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7891	Mr Deputies has now arrived. That's right. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7909	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In the sense of fair consideration, Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer said today that we should analyse the two budgets for 2003 and 2004. I'll hold on to this. Yes, there is a positive starting point here, and the budget recovery of recent years has taken place. We know that 2001 has succeeded in generating a surplus. And the new budget will also be a very positive, balanced budget over the economic cycle. Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting: the opposite in Germany “in the dead end” – so the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” entitled at the end of May of this year. [[Abg. Faul: Another party leaf, a black one!]] Ladies and gentlemen, “Germany is threatening new record” was another headline. I say quite frankly, I have no joy with it! I regret this development because it would also be important for our economy if there were positive figures in Germany. Not that you think I have special joy, on the contrary: I very much regret this development. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Posch! Also in the sense of a fair consideration – the pension reform. I was in Sweden recently. That is, as you know, a country that has long ruled social democracy. Retirement: 65 for men and women! You can retire at the earliest with 61 – but you should check out the discounts! Then you could show up here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you want to know anything, Mr Posch, in the sense of a fair consideration – and it is pretty slowly my favorite book, the “economic and social statistical book” of the Chamber of Labour –: The overall tax burden in this socially democratically governed country of Sweden is 53.4 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, there is Austria in a truly happy state! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The double budget 2003/2004 shows clear signals – they were carried out – towards the release of older workers, it also shows clear signals in the treatment of untapped profits. These will benefit from tax; this is important for the strengthening of equity. Indeed, it is also necessary to achieve more growth. Desirable and necessary is more growth, ladies and gentlemen! Exports also support this Austrian growth, these positive indicators. We should therefore also thank the 70 foreign trade agencies of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce on this occasion. Because this means that every export-oriented company has 70 assistance systems in the world, and they are particularly important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It would also be very important for new, strengthened business start-ups to reduce bureaucracy. Let's be honest: Today, no master craftsman, no medium-sized entrepreneur, no leading employee or board of directors in a company can only externally cover any section that affects his profession. Any independent entrepreneur and trader must be afraid of the rules of the State and its authorities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Here is a proposal: Many farmers know that the labour inspectorate sometimes rightly shows one or the other, no question at all. This is also necessary in the sense of reasonable worker protection. But I would be interested in what a work inspector here, in this house, would find everything, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Faul: We won't let them in!]] We obviously don't let them in here. Here, too, the same conditions of competition, of which so much is spoken, should be set in motion! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This is not an approach we have here!]] Especially in the interests of Parliament's workers, who have been rightly praised today, who have no chance of being included in these same rules, for the obstinate night work of course and a lack of daylight in the House's offices on the agenda – here it would be necessary, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I recognise that in recent years there has been a great deal of progress in improving infrastructure, improving the working opportunities of parliamentarians. Here – and I publicly say so – the green group has the greatest merit. Because when her colleagues came in, she had the self-esteem that there is simply a necessary equipment here. It's recognized! [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is also recognised that President Fischer has done a great deal here. That too is recognized! But we should also recognise and be so open to admit that we are still far away from modern support. The working conditions of the Austrian Parliament and the parliamentarians are pre-emptive in relation to many European Parliaments, which is still far behind. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Very right!]] That should also be said openly. Here's one more thing to do. In this sense, I would ask you to take reasonable steps here in cross-border discussions in the coming autumn. I am sure that the Bureau of Parliament will also support us in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8032	Mrs Rester-Hintersieer has now come to the fore. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8052	Thank you, Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government and the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Thank you, Mr Auer. Now I also trust to say something critical, because you have also said something critical. You're in the non-traunzer zone, as I've heard. However, I do not intend to run, but to discuss some important aspects of regional policy here, since regional policy is also one of the agents of the Federal Chancellor's Office. I have been dealing with this issue in the context of independent regional development since the 1980s. Topics such as spatial planning, spatial development, regional policy are somewhat bulky topics and in public perception are not necessarily very present. It is also in the opening words of the Federal Chancellor's Office that regional policy is interpreted quite differently by different states and by different individuals. The European Union's Structural Funds are the EU's second most important funding instrument in addition to agricultural support. Around one third of the EU budget is used for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge amount! These are, in particular, the European Regional Development Fund, the ERDF, which is managed in the Federal Chancellery, the European Social Fund, the ESF, which falls within the area of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, and the Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund, which is managed by the Ministry of Agriculture. There is now a programme accounting for the period 1995 to 1999. Austria has received almost €1.7 billion from the Structural Funds over this period. The final settlement is now under way and will be completed in the middle of the year. For example, 17 000 projects were supported under the European Regional Fund with a total cost of € 5.9 billion and around 27 000 new jobs were created. That's a huge number, but it could happen a lot more here, as I'm still going to do. There has been some change in regional development policy: On the one hand, more money has come from Europe, on the other hand, a lot has been spent by Austria, but obviously these expenses have no longer led to the same success as before. In view of the budget, I have noticed that in the Federal estimates on the funding side in 2001 an amount of €490 000 was set up, whereas now only €404 000 are planned as expected funding in 2003. That's interesting. The expenditure side accounted for 90 million in 2001, although 159 million had been committed for this year. That means – or can you interpret it that way?, that is now the question – that the funding has simply not been exhausted. We already have the bill for 2002. At the time, €75 million was paid in expenditure, although € 145 million would have been earmarked for it. That means you haven't used up a lot of things. In rural areas, such regional development programmes could have a special role to play in combating poverty, within the framework of gender mainstreaming programmes, i.e. education and training for men and women in rural areas, which are much more difficult to get to this training. But that wasn't exhausted. In an answer to a question from the Federal Ministry for Agriculture and Forestry, I received a lot of details on the subject of evaluation. Everything is being evaluated right now. In my view, the evaluation is very important, ladies and gentlemen, only: Weighing the pig doesn't get fatter! You have to do programs before to evaluate something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8104	Thank you very much for the last sentence, Mrs Deputies. I'm going to put him in my quote treasure. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr Neudeck has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8131	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwälte! I would like to address Mr Auer's speech very briefly, because I find it to be something completely new – come too late and then talk in the back! – that we also have the confidence to address the working conditions of both the staff and the Members here in the house. [[in the direction of the State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer]] I am a member of the Building Committee, and there it is always like this: If we have received any suggestions for conversions or other measures, it always says it is saved everywhere, we have to go ahead with good example! . But there are very certain working conditions and jobs here, which, as I said earlier in an interlocutory call, are very far away from a "type-appropriate attitude". I think there will have to be some rethinking here. It is not about luxury, it is not about waste, it is about necessary measures, which must also be taken in the structural field. This is, of course, not quite easy with an old, very historical and listed object. That is why I do not think that the decision to remodel the Palais with all these conditions is quite ideal, but rather a new building would have spoken the word. But, unfortunately, that's history, and you can't change that anymore. In this context, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors, under its President-in-Office and its staff, for carrying out investigations and accompanying checks in an exemplary way, for resisting the ever-increasing scandalisation attempts of the opposition, and for using this as an impartial and sovereign way of control, but not as a tool for making such measures bad. It is, of course, easier to control afterwards and to say what was wrong in a decision. It was often in the decision when it was taken that information was not included in the necessary range, and this is certainly taken into account in the Court of Auditors. Thank you for your work. I would like to have a long cooperation with you, but it will be as I have heard next year your term of office will end. But I hope that a professionally decorated and impartial president like you will then be chairing the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: It's gonna be hard!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A great deal has already been said about the budget chapter to be dealt with under this item on the agenda. When I went to Parliament early this morning, I heard that there will be a hot debate here today. I believed that this was related to the content, but the heat was more from the temperature. The opposition is likely to be concerned with recalculating their pensions, and it has come about that not so much has been cut down and that the law is quite right. [[Abg. Dobnigg: We will provide proof!]] – So far you have been speechless, so even so gratifying your information should not be! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should also like to point out that these budget accompanying laws also lay down essential measures for the economy, such as the disappearance of the 13th century. Sales tax dates and the preferential taxation of profits not collected. I would also like to thank the Minister for Finance for advocating the high objective of the zero deficit in the double budget presented in order to put in place economic incentives. I would have liked to see the opposition, which, at the time of the zero deficit, cried out, you were not right, you would actually have to do something more on the expenditure side to stimulate the economy and slow down revenue, now that this is happening, not again criticizing everything. Now it's not right for her, now she's suddenly damned a budget deficit that all other EU countries would be happy about, or where they'd be happy if they had only one at this level or one not much higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8196	The next item is Mrs Schasching's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8214	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I am particularly pleased that the Secretary of State for Sport has now also arrived here. Today, we have experienced a very diverse morning, with the most diverse contributions, because the individual competences have been divided and because of which the sports speakers from ÖVP and FPÖ have already given their speech long ago. But I am glad that I finally managed to speak to you, among other things. [[Abg. Scheibner: He only came for your sake!]] That'd be a nice story if he only flew in for me. However, I suspect that the Secretary of State is already waiting for what the SPÖ has to say on the subject of sports budget. Let me say first of all about sport that, of course, in Austria we can all be proud of top athletes, that, as my previous speakers have said, it is of course important to us that we have a Werner Schlager, an Mirna Jukic and many, many other top athletes who make positive advertising as a signpost for our beautiful homeland, which naturally flows into the tourism industry, into the domestic economy as well. That sport is a huge economic factor, we know it has enormous economic power, and that is why I believe it is very important and necessary to stress that, logically, we would have to invest much more money in this area in order to force it. Logically, I also hope that the 2010 Olympic Games will be held in Salzburg or Kitzbühel; I would be very pleased about that. We are all excited whether this will succeed, because this would also boost the economy in a way that could only benefit us all very positively. Sports, however, is not only important for tourism and the economy. The positive example of our youth and its value for health are also particularly important. We know that more than 80 percent of the world's and European champions come from non-olimpic sports, so it is very important to me to stress that we must promote and support the widest range and diversity in the future. But we also need to ask where all these top achievements come from, who is behind them. In most cases it is the parents' house. Very rarely – but sometimes – it is the school. In general, they are associations, associations that are there at work, who in thousands of hours of volunteering work create what we can then admire in the top field. Thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But this warm thanks should be connected by the Federal Government with a thank you in the sense of a recognition in the form of a corresponding teaching in the sports budget. At this point I come to the criticism that I have already brought to the committee. Logically and clearly, it is important and important for us to support the sport of disabled people. It is also important and important – I want to emphasize this in particular – to focus on women's and girls' sports. It is therefore important – Mr State Secretary, I have already said in the Committee – that the special federal sport promotion for maintaining the existing structures, from which broadband is forced, from which the top athletes are then trained, is not frozen on a medium-sized scale, as it is now given, but rather experienced a correspondingly higher dosage. That's probably an hour's commandment. In this context, I would like to remind you that all the parties have made announcements and made promises in the run-up to the last National Council elections, what they want to do in the field of sports. For example, from the sides of the ÖVP the following statement – I quote – came: “It is clear to us that we must strengthen the activities of the many small and large sports clubs and associations.” It is announced that more financial resources will be made available.I must note that: Unfortunately, this is not the case now! The statement was made by the FPÖ: “An increase in federal sports funding is desirable from a sports policy point of view.” – To this end, I can say: Where has it remained, the many - quoted “sport billions ”? I know, Mr State Secretary, you never talked about the “sport billion”, but you once thought of an approximation to the cultural budget. This is by no means the case, but it would be very urgent for Austrian sport to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Even though my colleague will now be waving the "time" package, I still have to point out a second broken promise. In the predictions of what priorities one will set after the election, the ÖVP says: “Not just sports lessons are at the heart of our projects,” she says when it comes to school sports. To do this, I have to say: If the strike of gymnastics means that sport lessons are at the heart of the projects, then we must really fear what the ÖVP will put at the centre of its projects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It cannot be useful for us to cut short now and remove where we need it most, namely children and young people who would need increased sports and movement, relaxation and also promotion of their health. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8272	Mr Schweitzer, President-in-Office of the Council. Speech time: 10 minutes. If the speaking time is exceeded, it will be withdrawn from the FPÖ club, and this would never be allowed by a former clubman. – You are speaking, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8290	Mr President. I do not intend to use the speaking time, but it is important for me to make some comments and, above all, clarifications. I am pleased that the sports debate – I have been very well informed about what was said during my absence – has been very constructive and that all the parties here in Parliament have been recognized that, within the scope of the possibilities of everyone, they are trying to do what is necessary for sport. That's what we did in the budget. Mrs Schasching, you know that the framework conditions for creating this double budget were not really good compared to other countries – but they were still relatively good – but that the sport is one of those areas that can enjoy an increase in the budget. After all, 20 million Schillings are more budgeted in these two budgets than was the case in the budget of the past year. This means that there is a significant increase in the sports budget. I would like to clear up with the fairy tale, which is that Austria should finally get a “sport billion”. This requirement is not necessary because Austria already has these “sport billions”. Mrs Schasching! I have written down how much money is actually spent by the public hand for sports. The federal funding alone – and there is also a large part of the federal government – totals more than 2 billion schilling. More than 2 billion schilling public funds are distributed across national sports organisations in the countries. In addition, the special federal sport promotion comes with general sports promotion, and in addition, the Federal Army's performance sports promotion. In total, if I count all of this, it's an amount of approximately € 210 million or almost 3 billion schilling. But it is clear: This money could possibly be used even better than it is at the moment. Due to historical developments in Austrian sport, we have a structure that leads to in some cases to multi-tracks that are not necessary in this form. I am very glad that we are thinking about how priorities can be set in the individual umbrella organisations so that these multi-tracks can be eliminated. But above all, I can tell you that, during the time we are now responsible for, we have tried to optimize the whole of our possibilities. You know that we only recently, in the last week, have optimised the promotion of top sports, by much of the light. We have found that there are too many councils that are not necessary to distribute the existing money. We have made this level of administration very slim. In addition, we have set up a sports medical pool, because we know that top sports promotion, which is also necessary for broadband sports, is very important. I was allowed to experience the great stage on the Kitzbühel Horn yesterday. I have to say: This cycling, which is quite interesting at the top, also has an enormous width sports effect. It was incredible how many people took the way to the Kitzbühel Horn with their bike and also managed him. It's really nice to see how many people in Austria are cycling now or how many people have started to do tennis sports following the example of a Thomas pattern. That is, top sports is exactly what we need for broadband. Therefore, there has to be an optimization of top sports promotion. I am convinced that this will have a corresponding impact on broadband. As far as gymnastics are concerned, I already have a comment: You know that a draft has been discussed that has foreseen a 25 percent reduction. However, the draft, which has been examined, has not at all had a reduction in its content. Finally, due to the fact that feedback from the National School Councils on the fact that there should not be a turn-hour reduction, it was very critical. But it is – and we all know that – even the daily turn hour within the framework of school autonomy. It is a matter of ensuring on-the-spot training is requested that there is a demand from pupils and parents, and then there is the possibility of making a decision within the framework of the School Community Committee that even the day-to-day gymnastics will be carried out. With a total of 19 hours for the primary school, this is possible at a five-day week. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Very funny!]] It is therefore not only those who adopt the regulations, but also those who act on the ground who teach on the spot who are given the instruction on the ground. If the lessons are made great by all our colleagues – and by many he is great – then the daily gymnastics can also be done. That's what I wanted to tell you. Overall, I think I can stress that there is the same objective in many areas in Austrian sports policy. I would like to thank you for your constructive cooperation in my work. I am pleased that we have worked together to achieve great goals, including the implementation of the Professional Sports Act. It's on the right track. We are also relatively successful with regard to the applications for the alignment of major international events. We are about to prepare an application for the Alpine ski World Championships in the area of Dachstein-Tauern-Region. I hope that's the second one. It will be successful for Austria when it comes to the 2010 Olympic Winter Games in Prague. Preparations for the 2008 Euro-pa Championship are going well. Our preparatory projects are being observed internationally. “Challenge 2008” is not only observed internationally, but also imitated. I am very glad that we are doing sports policy together with you, which has gained international recognition.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8332	Mr Felzmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8350	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I can take you back to the subject of art. I would like to make a brief comment on the address of Mrs Glavischnig: She's been calling us abroad. Unfortunately, she is not in the hall now, so I can ask her colleagues to set up her as follows: We have many different large activities abroad. I can point to the design now, to the great design event that took place in Japan and New York. We were received great there. The architectural exhibition will soon take place in Paris. All these are things that we can be very proud of. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If the Greens are really interested in cooperating on the subject of culture and art, I suggest that you also solve a little bit of this mistaken belief that this is your topic that you have leased this topic. You don't have that, no more than the topics of education, innovation or technology. As I said, We are ready to cooperate with you! Now a sentence on the comments made by Mr Muttonen, who spoke of “redistribution action” of “dust up”. My personal opinion on this is: If you're more committed to rigidity, then what we're doing is, of course, pretty uncomfortable. Of course we move, of course we focus. But your performance in recent weeks was not particularly creative if I can say so, so I also admit that you don't have so much on the topic of creativity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We say: The competition of tomorrow will be won in the field of creativity!, and that was known by State Secretary Morak many years ago. He took this path and didn't leave him either. We need this path of the creative economy. Please, don't be afraid that public art promotions will take something away. Creative economy is a confluence, a co-existence of the various areas. The creatives include not only artists, but also architects, designers, multimedia agencies, all those who can primarily create and generate the value or their output through ideas. One of the priorities of the creative economy and the path of the State Secretary Morak was and is the field of film industry, and now – you all have heard it today – there is the Digital and Film Fund. In operational implementation, one of the priorities has been set here. For the first time, funds that have so far been transferred back to the general budget have been made available to this fund in the sense of the Austrian media and culture location. In addition to this fund, there are numerous other activities on the creative economy – for example, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, the General Labour Court and the Economic and Social Committee. The creative economy, at national level, at regional level – and all these activities have one thing in common: It is important to establish Austria as a creative location. We see ourselves as an economic hub in a united Europe. We have the economy on the one hand, and we are also a world cultural city in which there are museums, galleries, a real wealth of cultural offerings. The combination, the merger, the restriction of both results in higher value added, more jobs and more economic growth. We've seen that in England. In July, when the first Austrian creative economic report is available, I am convinced that the Austrians will be able to raise awareness of this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8420	Mr Jarolim has now received the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8439	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Felzmann, that we cannot link the activity of this government with positive creativity, will not surprise you if you look more closely. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Bravo!]] – It is very much my heart to point out. I would also like to point out something else. Colleague Scheuch – he's not in the hall now – has made an intermediate call before. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch shows his presence in the back of the hall.]] - You're in the hall, Mr. Scheuch. You made an intermediate call, something in the direction: If we do not support the Jews, we will support the miners! – Perhaps I have misunderstanded you, perhaps I have not heard that correctly, Mr President. Or maybe the other colleagues heard what you said. I don't want to mention this emotionally now, but I'm looking for you: Come on. Please get out of here and put it right! Make a statement about this! I believe that such a statement is not in line with the dignity of this House. But maybe you just promised. I beg you, make that right, that's my sincere request to you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: Mr President...!]] When we speak to the Supreme Institutions, it is also necessary to deal with the question of the relation of the Supreme Institutions and also with the attitude that is maintained here as part of the discourse. A discussion was started here, which is particularly important in connection with the development of the Austrian Convention, the future constitutional landscape. The President of this House has initiated it. In connection with the position of this body, the National Council, President Khol took the view that there would be a lot of ‘constitutional shooters’ here. – I do not want to qualify for this word, nor do I want to assess whether it is appropriate or not to qualify constitutional regulations – as a university professor – as a “constitutional shooter”. I would just like to deal with what is actually to be said here, and in what way, in this way, a prominent representative of the largest party in this country, by the chairman of this House, is more or less pointing – or, as I hope, not pointing to future developments. [[Call at the ÖVP: This is interpretation!]] You know exactly: We owe the position of the Federal President of the Constitution of 1929. It was the Social Democracy that over the years, in a number of contributions, the position of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany – the structure of power, the background, the question of parliamentarianism and the position of this House – has repeatedly changed and repeatedly asked the question of discussion: Does it need such a federal president here? In this respect, I consider a discussion – although perhaps using other words as a “constitutional shooter” – to be appropriate in itself. I consider them to be relatively unreasonable only if what is said here to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany is actually not in line with the dogmas and backgrounds that otherwise marked the constitutional change of 1929. You know, ladies and gentlemen, there was an argument at the time, which was marked by the fact that, in particular, the Austrian home defences were relatively strongly opposed to Parliament's position, that, although they spoke of a so-called true democracy, in reality, they were concerned about restricting democracy. The book Walter/Mayer, “Grundreiß des Österreiches Bundesconstitutionsrechts”, says that this was a state-of-the-art way to disable Parliament’s power. Mr. Khol! If I look at a number of explanations that have been made by you and representatives of the government – including the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany – in recent times, I recognize a development that is international, I think, to the highest degree. I would not be proud to have such a discussion abroad. I would call on the domestic authorities to return here to a way of discussing which is very open to say what they really want. Mr Khol, you know what I mean. In recent times, we have a wealth of developments and explanations that are quite simply out of the state's material, and I think we do not need that. I'm just saying this briefly because my speaking time has almost expired: The fact that a political speech is being held in a church is new. Putting God into the Constitution is a state-of-the-art relic that has not lost anything in a modern democracy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I add: especially respect for religion, my Ladies and gentlemen – with all due respect, so that I will not be misunderstandingd here! When I remember that a book on Engelbert Dolfuss was recently presented here in the House, which is initiated by you with an almost - Mr President, I have thought it so - glorifying preface, I would like to remind you that it is the Angelbert Dolfuss who caused the death of the democracy of this country, which, through the shooting of municipal buildings and by a criminal murder of this country's history, has given a sad mark! If Dolfuss receives from you a worthy, honorable speech guide, and at the same time still his image with you – you apologise that I repeat it – in the club, I mean: Go in, Mr President. Get inside, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, and finally clear up with your historical understanding! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8532	Mr. Dr. Jarolim! I cannot answer that in the Presidency. However, I will answer you if we take the law on the Austrian Convention on the evening of the 18th. In June, I will not hold the presidency. I will then speak and I will answer you. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: We are pleased!]] As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller on word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8561	Mr President. High house! First of all, Dr. Jarolim. First: A role exchange is often not quite that unusual. Someone who listened to a political speech once told me: It's all wrong: The politicians are preaching, and the priests are politicizing. – Your party knows that too, apparently not without occasion. Secondly, Mr President, Mr Khol did not question the role of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, as was once done by Professor Welan, but only some of his powers, which must be considered whether, at the time, the so-called self-absorbing of Parliament in 1933, the Federal President should have intervened. Unfortunately, it has not happened. A major damage could have been avoided if his competences were to be used. – I think you have to consider very carefully what skills you take away and which are not. I would like to address one point to the Supreme Court. I would also like to refer to the President of the Court of Auditors in his capacity as Chairman of the Austrian Convention. In the context of the annual report of the Administrative Court for 2002, we have heard that the VwGH was unhealably overburdened that it was no longer able to reduce the residues. The European Court of Human Rights has already denied Austria several times for long-term proceedings before the VWGH. On average, the completion of complaints against notifications lasted a little over 21 months in 2002. Ladies and gentlemen! In the present budget, which we decide in these days, the staffing effort for the VWGH has increased somewhat, but the planning posts in this area are apparently not sufficient. I myself have hoped that by creating independent administrative Senates in the countries, the number of complaints coming to the VWGH will decrease somewhat, but this hope has not met. I therefore believe that it is essential to introduce administrative courts in the countries as well. I know there is a concern that the case law will then be split, but I believe that the Constitutional Convention, which will certainly also deal with it, will come up with something to ensure that the administrative courts in the countries have sufficient competence and no longer come to the Federal Administrative Court, but we still have a uniform case law. I think that we may also be able to take a few bonds in Germany, where such a system works. The second point I would like to address is the media sector. It has already been said by Andrea Wolfmayr that in the budget we have available € 15 million for the promotion of distribution technology in the digital field and for television film production. I think this is a significant progress that has been made here. It is also important to me that a change has been made in the private television law, which we said yesterday. More recently, test companies and pilot experiments that have not yet been broadcast can also be sent, resulting in additional use for the television. In this context, I am particularly pleased with the following: ==References== In June, the ATV, the first national terrestrial private television programme, was broadcast. This has always been a very special concern for me in my professional activity, and I was very pleased that the law on private terrestrial television was created in July 2001 and that we, State Secretary Morak, have already mentioned it, after Albania as the last state in Europe, we have certainly taken this important step. Just a little bit more about the telecommunications fee system. Some clarifications have been made about the care allowance and the care allowance. It has been established that the care allowance for the exemption from the telecommunications fee and therefore also the radio and television fee is not charged to the amount of the household net income. Unfortunately, however, care providers will also need to provide evidence of need in the future. It is clear to me that this represents a certain social symmetry, but we should look at whether an administrative simplification can be created for care providers. To the Radio Fees Act: I was able to mention yesterday that the student homes and school homes are now exempt from the broadcasting charges. The new regulation for second-room owners is also very useful because a seasonal report can now be made and it is therefore no longer necessary to pay full fees twice. All these are successes that this government has achieved, especially with State Secretary Franz Morak.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8637	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. The clock is set to 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8655	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Allow me, on behalf of my group, to express my sincere thanks to the staff of the Court of Auditors, the People's Procuratorate, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, to the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate and the clubs for their excellent performance and support! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The public service, the public servants of our Republic, our home country, do excellent work of high quality. That was and is an important contribution – I know these statements also from the business side – also with regard to the location question of our home country. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to point out today, as part of the budget debate, that it is very often the public service colleagues in the political debate and also the public as a cost factor. I have already mentioned here several times in debates that these colleagues are people, friends of many also here in the hall! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call for the call.]] We could discuss this once. That would be nice, but it's not that way. – The Fritz is sitting there in the back, discussing this with each other! [[in the direction of the Abg. Neugebauer]] I think we should offer security to the public service colleague, who provides a valuable service to our home country, and not continue to insure them continuously in political conflicts! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Even if it is legitimate that new governments repeatedly shift their skills: Imagine what this is like when entire sections are pushed back and forth – I just said this here a few weeks ago – when hundreds of people, employees, and employees find themselves somewhere else at once, on completely different jobs. This is formally in order, but I believe that all of us together have the task of serving in the broadest sense of the word. Although the Federal Government is the service provider, we are creating the necessary legal framework here as a legislator. We also have a corresponding duty of care and easy to convey a sense of security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have already told the Federal Chancellor in the Budget Committee: I think it is right that the competences for the public service have returned to the Federal Chancellery. They told us about the government parties in 2000 that it is the most important thing in the world to create a new ministry with one and a half sections! At that time, the zero deficit was the credo – that was sacrosanct. Today it is no longer acrosanct, and thank God the competences are back in the BKA! I say that clearly. Ladies and gentlemen! But we still have a problem, and I am not alone in my opinion. This opinion is also widely expressed. In times when it is difficult on the labour market anyway, you have to consider whether it is really advisable to rationalize thousands of planning sites, partly even with great joy! The Federal Chancellor has rightly pointed out in the Committee on Budgets that we are primarily guilty of enormous work. In this increasing flood of law, one has to consider whether one is continuing in this direction, because in this way we are actually producing work if we want legal certainty. For this, however, there is nothing for public servants, ladies and gentlemen. You may be able to tell each other, but here we should really leave the public servants alone! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So my request would be, if, in times of a tense labour market – I do not want to repeat everything we have already discussed this week – to carry out all the reforms that have been decided yesterday, then this will also lead to an increase in unemployment or poverty. I ask you to consider the following – this has not yet been addressed today, but I address it –: The Service Provider's Federation, as I think, has the obligation to hire apprentices. It was an important introduction years ago that we also hired apprentices. Today, when I look at the area in which the Federation is still working, I have to say that the Employers' Federation is also pressing ahead with this action, so important in the interest of our youth. I believe that the local authorities should also make their contribution to this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've known the discussions for a long time. We have already discussed with each other before your work in the Federal Government, Mr. State Secretary, also at another level, and I think we both know what we are talking about here and what we are talking about; so I would express it once. But I would really urge everyone to know where we are always talking about justice – and I have not just read this motion for a resolution in detail...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8761	Deputies! Your speaking time is a voluntary limit, but your folder is getting restless.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8776	I would just like to say the following: If we are together – and I am going to follow closely the discussions that will come this autumn – in the sense of a modern right, a harmonised right – and that is absolutely necessary from my point of view! – also discuss life-time models, work-time models, then one must not happen: that perhaps in young years one does not deserve anything in active life, everything is focused on the end of a career and there is also lowered! This, ladies and gentlemen, will certainly not be possible with the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8803	Mrs Mikesch is now speaking to us for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8822	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Institutions! Sport is becoming increasingly important in our leisure society, and this is the importance of our federal government by means of sport promotion. By increasing the funding of sports promotion by €1.5 million, with a special focus on disabled sport, this Federal Government shows that it takes sports very seriously. These funds are also intended to promote, in particular, school sport and women's specific measures in the field of sport. After all, the total sports budget for 2003 and 2004 amounts to € 122.7 million. We have 12 300 sports clubs with 2.5 million members in Austria. The non-profit associations and associations are the main pillars of sport. From this point of view, I would also like to thank all the many people who bring many hours of volunteering into the clubs and associations in order to fill them with life. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] More often than once a week, 1.5 million people in Austria are active in sports. If the 60 percent sporty inactive were used to run sports at least once a week, savings of over €800 million in health would be possible. Sport, ladies and gentlemen, has enormous economic significance in our country. The networking of sports and business is becoming ever closer. The market for sports goods, sports services and sports venues construction is growing and creating new jobs. Sportswear and sports equipment are subject to constant fashionable and technical development, and thus there are always new opportunities for the economy. Our successful athletes are also interesting advertising carriers, which we are very happy to use. After all, we are talking about an estimate of €5.43 billion per year across the sport sector, which is 2.9 percent of gross domestic product, and an employee's share of 2.6 percent. Sports, ladies and gentlemen, also have a shadow side, and these are the leisure accidents. According to a study, the cost of sports-related cases of disease amounts to approximately €300 million. There we are at a point that meets me as an entrepreneur. It is a good solution that, in place of a comprehensive reduction in accident insurance contributions, which would have been only marginal, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, the scheme has been created that companies up to 50 employees will be reimbursed 50 percent of the pay-out for sports and leisure accidents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In my view, however, it will still be necessary in the future for people doing sports to take on more self-responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen! Imagine what it takes for a ten-person company to comply with delivery dates and payment obligations, if one of its employees fails for weeks due to a cross-band break. Major events such as the European Football Championships have been brought to Austria and others are still ahead of the decision. This has led to and will launch further, very important economic impulses.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8889	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. I'd like to put the clock at 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8907	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Mikesch has now made it clear where the differences are in the view of the sport of government parties and the Social Democratic Party. She has advanced economic policy and, at the same time, has regretted the many sports accidents that have led to immense failures in your private business. Ladies and gentlemen! We see the health policy, the interpersonal aspect as outstanding for sport, as important, the other is a natural sequence of it. If we could pay off all those hours of work, which were therefore better handled, because the young people, the people who run sports, the men and women who move in fresh air every day, more creativity, more strength, then, I believe, the economic loss due to a failure would not be so dramatic, Mrs Mikesch! It is of course important for us that sport has the resources it needs. If you look at the budget – of course, a budget is a question of having and spending – you have to say that it is moving at all corners and ends because, as we believe, the government is spending the money in wrong places. Not sports alone should be a sufferer of it. I would like to repeat a proposal: If we are not able to support associations, sports organisations, roof associations, professional associations according to the state, then we should use the creativity of professional associations and allow them the opportunity to make their own money. I therefore make once again the proposal that I have already made: There is the possibility to bring sports to the public by means of ORF – I don't want to say edge sports, but sports that are not loved by ORF journalists as trial, for example, or car racing; there are others who are interested in people – and to introduce a wide audience, which could arouse interest in these sports. For example, who knows what softball is? I didn't know, I just know it was Olympic. How many Austrian teams there are in softball you will probably not find hard to guess – very few to none! But this is a sporty activity, where women in Africa, for example, have a lot of joy in America, Asia, for example. On the other hand, we have sports and sports associations, such as the Schisportverband or the Football Association, which, through advertising contracts, can also manage own resources accordingly, but associations such as rings, archers, Jiu-Jitsu, exactly, do not have these possibilities. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] If you approach television and ask to transfer perhaps a few minutes from big events in Austria, where our athletes have to qualify for European championships, World Championships, you encounter deaf ears. Of course, then, the lubrication of advertising money, of sponsor money for such events is very difficult. If you can't even switch a newspaper show or just get a few advertising seconds on TV, you also have little understanding in the public, and there's no money in the cash registers either. We have enough functionals with connections that would not harm the advertising industry if they were to make money for the associations they represent. By the way, thank you, Mrs Mikesch, for the praise for the volunteer officials; I also feel addressed here. We have contacts enough to ask businesses to support us, but there should also be a counter-performance from us. TW1 would be a good way to bring sports events to television. Newspapers, which, for example, manage public funds through press promotion, could be obliged to point to appropriate events. The State would have the advantage of giving or staying less money to professional associations, and the professional associations could develop this even more necessary themselves. Thank you so much for the young people who stay away from the street would thank us, like Mrs Mikesch, who has a healthy workforce, and we would all be pleased because this would save the state as well in health spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8969	Mr Magistrate is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Long rider. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8987	Mr President. Dear lady, gentlemen on the government bank! I would like to comment on a subject that has been discussed somewhat cumbersomely today, namely the Austrian Convention. We know that all the political groups present in this House have come to know how to establish an Austrian Convention with the aim of perhaps implementing, making fundamental changes through a constitutional reform and thus establishing a forum for discussion in order to develop a constitutional reform. As a measure of the new Federal Government to prepare for sustainable improvement and modernisation of the administration, not only the administration, but also Social life, including economic life, is well hit by the establishment of a convention. I wish Mr President-in-Office on this responsible task, which he will certainly be very competent to deal with. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Without prescribing to our president: In my opinion, the Constitution does not need to be rewritten, but it needs at least a renewal to be made in the 21st century. ==References====External links== It is also about articulate the competences of the European Union, the federal government, the countries and also the municipalities. We are confessing Europeans, but we also know the strengths of our regions. That is why it is also necessary to represent federalism, country and local autonomy accordingly, and perhaps to find clear demarcations with a view to a financial balance that should benefit regions and countries. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, budgetary conditions must also be created, funds must be made available, resources must also be provided for the municipalities and countries for general and public services, because there must be and perhaps should also be expanded, in the form that the administration remains with the regions, that the administration remains with the municipalities or regional authorities. It must not be out of hand – this is a credo from me – especially not in foreign hands to achieve perhaps short-term tax benefits, but then to face an uncertain future. Let's save these things! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Let me also take a brief look at a subject that Mr Jarolim has mentioned. As a regional politician, I become my roots, resulting in Christian values. And this Christian thought of values, which I say quite openly, is for me God devotion and, of course, God's covenant. Austria, our home country, has built its existence on the roots of Christian values thinking, for parameters such as respect for human rights, freedom, democracy, sustainable development and the pursuit of the common good are, I mean, the foundations of Christian values. The family-political achievements of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen, bear this manuscript. I'll tell you, Dr. Jarolim: The simple cross on the forehead, mouth and breast of a perhaps three-year-old child by the mother, by the father or other legal guardian will help this child in his later years to handle his tasks as a youth or as an adult. Believe me! Money alone doesn't make you happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9044	Mr Scheuch spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9066	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Jarolim said that I would have said that we should not give the Jews any money but rather make it available to the miners. – This statement is incorrect! I have only noticed in my interlocutory call that it is also very important for me as an agricultural speaker to support the miners. [[Abg. Brosz: That's not important!]] Please note that this was in no way any anti-Semitic or even close to anti-Semitic statement!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9115	I have received the Stenographical Protocol because I have also interpreted this call as misunderstanding. If he were meant to be anti-Semitic, he would not be compatible with the dignity of the house. Your clarification, Mr Scheuch, has been taken note of by me. The next speaker is Mr Faul. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9137	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. State Secretary! All the financiers, all co-financers and, ultimately, the return on the second market, or the supposed profits from these events, can of course easily be a billion budget, a 3-billion budget. [[State Secretary Mag. Sweitzer: 3 billion!]] In your remarks you also have the developments in school sports, in top sports, in broadband sports, but ultimately also the very big events, such as participation in the European Championships, which include applications around the Olympiads for you. That, I have to say, we have to put it right. In reality, the initiators of these efforts to participate in such major events are the regions. The regions know about their tourist strength, and they also know that a certain return will occur in both economic and advertising terms. And these regions – I was in the Styria when applying for the Olympic participation itself – must on knees ask the state for a few cents to ask for a few euros. Only when these major events are opened will we see the state, not the state itself, but, of course, the representatives of the state. I still have very clear pictures from St. Anton and pictures from the last Grand Prix in front of my eyes. Mr. State Secretary! In one thing, you have to be right: Your efforts at youth sports, school sports are in conflict. We also recognize your personal services in sports. We would like to see the Minister of Education Gehrer join us here. We miss initiatives from this side very much. On the other hand, it is also necessary to say that the initiatives are slowed down by the fact that the Minister of Finance does not ultimately provide money for these youth sports initiatives. If it is more important for the Minister of Finance to buy a few Sinteure interceptors than to provide for the health of our children and youth, this is the other side. [[Abg. Scheibner: Please!]] But it is, in the end, the same money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It will always be most obvious if you give a practical example; Mr Amon is a steirer and knows that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] There are thus 40 folk school teachers in my 9 000-inhabitant city, and all 40 are over 45 years old. Due to the increases and cuts in the school sector, the school classes with 28 to 30 students are often rancid. The young contract teachers have all been released. You haven't extended your contracts, they're now without a job. These really would have liked to stop the gym. You can't even suspect the older colleagues – who are still getting older – that they don't like to do this sport lesson.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9191	Deputies! Now it's 15 o'clock. One last sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9206	I'm coming to my closing point. Mr. State Secretary! This work, the qualified work of gymnastics, is done by the voluntary people in the clubs, the people in the roof associations – to which you like to go. I ask you to think about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9233	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Cap and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning more than 27 million euros for self-representation and advertising (520/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9258	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 550/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9540	I give the floor to Mr Dr Cap as the first questioner to justify the request. In accordance with Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure, his word must not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9558	Today we are dealing with a urgent question to the Minister for Finance, who has formally pleaded that there is a urgent question to him. Although he has taken work material with him, he emphasizes a little and emphasizes with the “Stabilo Boss” texts, but he should take care of a little, for that is not as simple as it was some time ago. The urgent question is to deal, among other things, with the question of what happened at €27 million for self-representation and advertising, precisely broken down. We have, of course, raised questions and expect that there is a real, precise answer to these questions. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: More than that!]] – “More than that!” says the Minister of Finance. We'll check that out. – And then there is a debate in which you can go about it. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] It is also about the assessment of the versatility or the many faces of Karl-Heinz Grasser, the Minister of Finance. The one face that we know from the various ads and also here from the government bank in the phases of the special, stressful discussions is the face of smiling, the permanent smile, whereby he starts, laughs, smiles – and, if he does not miss it, smiles off again, so that he will get back to the rest position. [[Rejoicing]] If he forgets the smile, he laughs. It may also be that he laughs all night – but that's no longer our problem; except we have a night meeting, then it's our problem. Sometimes you wonder why it smiles – it is often so groundless. But that is something that is not the subject of the request, but part of the marketing concept, because he spends a lot of money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] – You should have defended Karl-Heinz Grasser when he left FPÖ, Mr. Neudeck, and not now that he is outside! [[Abg. Neudeck: I also defend Partyless Ministers!]] But maybe you want him back. You can have it from me, too. Take it from the government bank and put it back into the group! That would be better anyway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But back to the topic “Marketing”. Somehow this seems to be a marketing concept: If someone spends so much money on marketing and advertising that you can even make a urgent request, then something has to be behind it, which explains why that is so. [[Call to the ÖVP:... would you like to sit on the government bank!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Absolutely right!]] That is why we have dealt with this question. By the way – and this is interesting – we have established a link between the sum that has been made since the 4. It was spent in this area on February 2000, and the sum available for what you have so fully contributed here, namely the Hard Fund. I suppose you'll have read this: The funds of the hardening fund are a fraction of what Karl-Heinz Grasser, the talented in-the-bag grabber of Austrian citizens, spends – in Saus and Braus! [[Abg. Neudeck: Now the Eurofighter will surely be added! That's it! That's it!]] When you look at this: The hardness fund has made up 10 million, and 27 million makes... – I know your numbers! [[Abg. May. Molterer: 44! 44 million!]] They don't exist in an arithmetic textbook. You have your own numbers, that's a very own language! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what was one of the decisive moments for us to say: Now he has to be questioned!? – This was the ad series of the 37 university professors, the staggering – of course at tax costs, but the Minister of Finance can do this even more precisely – during Pentecost holidays using this time, appealing to the Holy Spirit – to the conflicting Austrians in order to advertise for this disgraceful pension reform, which includes these many cuts. 190,000 € has cost it – translated into old currency the 3.5 million schilling – only that 37 professors can send this appeal, by the way also his doctoral father! – What does the study do, Mr. Finanzminister? How are you? Are we done? Has Do you miss the lecture today? Let's get you a little off that? Instead, sit at the lecture You here in the high house today? – But that’s his problem! [[Abg. May. Molterer: But he doesn't need as long as the cap!]] [[Cheerfulness to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: As long as Josef Cap used to become a doctor, he doesn't need it!]] By the way, an interesting other aspect, because Klubobmann Molterer is just one Do you know what I'm saying? There has been a time when the ÖVP has tried to give the impression that it is really thinking about whether it is making a coalition with the SPÖ or perhaps making a coalition with the Greens. – Karl-Heinz Grasser, the fast thinker, the flash-gneezer, has already acted quite differently there: He has already awarded an advertising order of €950 000 before the formation of the Schüsel II government. So, obviously, during the exploratory discussions, while Dr. Schüssel and Dr. Gusenbauer and all of us have been together, he must have signed an advertisement order so that the future blessings of the Ministry of Finance can be applied. He must have known more than you did, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, at the time – you were still ministers. By the way, they also sat in the rounds of negotiations, with him side by side. While you still – apparently serious – have been conducting exploratory discussions with us, he has already written out to continue applying for what he intends as Minister of Finance! These exploratory talks with the SPÖ were therefore a shame! These conversations with the Greens were therefore a shame! Karl-Heinz Grasser has proved it: He wrote out and already wanted to apply. Or do you think he wrote this out so that a Social Democratic Minister of Finance or Alexander Van der Bellen as Minister of Finance can make a proper advertising campaign for 14 million schillings? If you have it, you have it! But they are taxpayers, and I am convinced that it would have been difficult to get out of this contract, because these companies are maintaining contracts – see Eurofighter – from which it is difficult to get out. - I'm just saying this. So that was one of the many reasons: ==References== At least €6 million for government propaganda! We have listed this and, so that you can read it better, beautifully divided into three parts: Part of this is the advisory work. – Well, on the basis of how the members of the government have presented themselves so far, I understand that they are basically thinking of consultation. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] I understand, that's clear. – But only the first consultation order, by the way, in the order of 4 290 000 €,... – smile! [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Mag. Grass and general hustle and bustle.]] – A very bad accusation: 4 290 000 € he just threw out for a consultation order – and he smiles! So don't forget, Minister: smile off, because otherwise this will become very tight. So this advisory mandate – the first one we mentioned in this listing – concerns: Advice to achieve a zero deficit! – This is the very best: They didn't know how to get the zero deficit! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] They were sitting in the Himmelpfortgasse, completely unscrupulous. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: They didn't know, but they did it! You knew how it was, but you didn't! That's the difference!]] He went up and down in his office and thought: How do I achieve the zero deficit? That's crazy! I never reach that, the zero deficit! I'm a poor drop! That's what I'm gonna do, I'm a poor drop. Suddenly the burning idea: I'm making an advisory order! – The consultants come in all the way and say: We know how we do this now! – and fit!, already the zero deficit was there. And that's sustainable, as we know: There should be a zero deficit every year. - A great company! It was worth this money: Every time a zero deficit! By the way, you yourself said, Minister of Finance, that the zero deficit was just a marketing instrument. This is probably true of all your speeches here in the House in a certain way, even with regard to the zero deficit and the expenditure-side reorganisation of the budget, because you are saying – I quote – that: “For me, Parliament is a place where many people act in roles and form rhetorical wonderful speeches, without actually believing what they say.” That means you have never believed in the zero deficit... – smiling! [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] Now smile again! Smile again! [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP, as well as applause with the SPÖ.]] So you're talking here without you believing that the zero deficit is really achievable. But if it is so that you do not believe everything you say here in Parliament – nor do you, but now I am dealing with him; we are going to do this later – what is the point of your announcement: [[Call: neither do we.]] Now comes the biggest tax reform – I would have said almost: “all the time,” but let’s leave it so that there is an increase in your marketing concept for you; so – you have announced it – the largest tax reform in the Second Republic. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: In history!]] When is she really coming? I mean, sometime you have to – or You should even find courage to a year. Tell us an annual number and finally decide to make it easier for us to adapt to it so that we can also look forward to the tax reform so that the Austrians already know what they can spend then, what they can do then! - All right. I don't think you can rely on that. It goes further with the consultation orders. All the amounts listed here are your sums. By the way: All that has to do with reorganisation, procurement, financial management, restructuring, reorientation of the financial administration is an issue of inadequacies. But to do this, you need to know: The Ministry of Finance itself has the most qualified and best officials. – Mr Deputies stupidly nodded. – There is already the question: If you have the most qualified and best officials, why do you have to complete such tasks all the time? Why do you have to go to law firms? – Yes, if you want to be Minister of Finance in Saus and Braus and say: [[Abg. Dr. stupid: One doesn't rule out the other, dear friend!]] Super, I now grab hold of the... – Many Austrians can no longer go reasonable on the road because left and right the hand of the Minister of Finance is inside their pockets, which unbrokenly knocks out the Euros! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If this is the case and he gets the money, the Minister of Finance says: Now I have taken away so much money from the Austrians! and then he begins to think about it and asks: What am I doing with it? What do I do with it only before your group representatives and stakeholders come, who then always have an idea of what to do with the money to get the taxpayers out of the bag? What do I do with it before your party's sub-organisations come? Now it's up to him: He's dispersing everything – that's inconceivable! – by the way, with very little success and low results – see criticism of the Court of Auditors. Mr Finanzminister, your favorite reading should not be what you are about to look at in order to get some air, but rather you should look into the Court of Auditors' report. This is not so uncritical, you have to say, actually very critical! - Now again: Smile! [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] I know! There you can say what you want: Smile, just always smile! [[Abg. May. Molterer: At Cap: Smile! You don't smile at Cap, you laugh at Cap!]] – You don’t have to help him constantly. Is he with you? Is he already a member? Is it already that far? Then let him defend himself in all peace! So, let us continue in this list of many, many advisory contracts. – We then have a second point to be helpful, simply cited as “propaganda expenditure”. Here too, there is a long list of various preparations and participations in conferences and presentations, participation in the World's Old Age Plan – I see, because it's really interesting what age development looks like worldwide. But one thing is interesting, for example “PR campaign to improve the performance of the BMF”: 163,000 euros! – So that’s not exactly a small amount for him to think more and more about how he is himself. Because the Ministry of Finance, when I see it this way, is he: “C’est moi!”, says the famous phrase, “I am the Ministry of Finance!”, not only the Minister of Finance. And then something that is even my favorite item in this list, namely these SME dialogue events. The “Falter” describes this as follows under the title “Sparefrogs Millionshow” – I quote –: “When the zero deficit in the floods threatened, the finance minister slammed his radio microphone like a motivation trainer, rented casinos, opera houses and art halls, let thousands of cocktails and broths be rich, danced on a stage, jumped into the audience, and threw the word zero deficit on huge video walls.” – You look quite jealous, gel? [[in the direction of Secretary of State, Dr. Finz, sitting on the Government Bank]] [[Cheerfulness in the SPÖ and in the members of the Freeman and in the case of the SPÖ.]] Minister of Finance should have been!, he will probably have thought. You still have a little effort to make, Mr State Secretary, but maybe something will happen soon! I quote: “Then, with a voting device (“a new form of political participation”), small business was allowed to deposit its wishes to the Minister.” Listen! [[Abg. Großruck:... a Kasperltheater...!]] This has, by the way, been your previous constituency clientele, which has been sat in mass at the events of the Minister of Finance. I totally understand that you're bitter now. However, try to follow the urgent question here in peace and quiet! [[Abg. Großruck:... your members join the Kasperltheater!]] – Kasperl events were his SME stories. These were the events for which €2 360 000 are mentioned. 2 360 000 € has cost it! [[Abg. Neudeck: I see envy in your eyes, Mr. Colleague!]] These are almost 30 million schillings in the old currency, which the taxpayer and taxpayer had to cover so that these events could take place, which he should in fact have been held in Franciscan monasteries - from the result - because afterwards all those who were sitting there were as the object of simmering as well as many other Austrians also, with the well-known success that the economy has not done anything that we have a very bad economic growth, that we have a high unemployment rate and that in reality the small and medium-sized enterprises are still moaning. [[Abg. Neudeck: You could take ten times as much, and you can't do that!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: colleague, how was your marathon time?]] I ask myself what the Minister of Finance has actually done for these small and medium-sized enterprises, except what affected this million show! [[Abg. Wittauer: The tax reform!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The 13. Sales tax abolished! Capitalisation!]] And since, I have to tell you, the thing is going to be bitter when you look at how much tax money was eventually used for it! It goes on – I know that the physical pain is causing you, it is now your Minister of Finance – but you have to listen to it because here is the place to talk about it! [[turn to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Just phonetic! Just phonetically!]] Another thing: You know that we, the Parliament, have budgetary law. We should be very careful about the few rights we have. There was a phase in which to discuss the acquisition and financing of the Eurofighters and so on, and how to think about how to restrict or even take account of Parliament's budgetary law more or less, so that the Minister of Finance can act himself if this billion-dollar project should cost Eurofighter much more than one might believe. And it was considered that Parliament should be given this right and that this problem should ultimately be solved in the ministry within the framework of the Minister of Finance. What do you call that? – Normally, this is simply a restriction on Parliament’s rights and therefore avert all Members! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For Karl-Heinz Grasser it was under the title “Administrative simplification”! This must be broken on the tongue: ‘Administrative simplification’! – I could just think about it if I thought about individual government positions, which could be all administrative simplification. [[Abg. Neudeck: With your arguments, you can see that your consultants don't cost anything! You can see that!]] No, you should be very upset about this – or you would like to have your rights taken as a Member of Parliament. [[Abg. Neudeck: Your arguments are weak!]] Then, I tell you, you obviously do not have a proper relationship with this house in which you sit, because in reality you cannot allow it, and not with this new speaker vocabulary, where there is at all such a policy of popularity behind it. [[Abg. Neudeck: It’s about your arguments, not our rights!]] – Once more: There's always a quote from Jörg Haider so you can remember him again if you forgot him. He, Haider, also said this in the description of this: this policy of popularity, of changing the respective referents – a father must always be there, the new one is sitting right next to it. It must always be any reference person. And changing the side is easy when it has to be. With the right marketing concept, it is also possible to sell the equipment. - Good. This policy of popularity is somewhere behind it when I look at what it says: It's just an administrative simplification! – This is a very delicate story, if you call something related to democratic rights such. But in fact, he only wants it – if I get it out of the “profile” of 10. Citing February – ‘the happiest finance minister’. In fact, he does not make a very big claim at all. He says: “I want to be the happiest finance minister and never become a politician.” – Never, never, never – peacock! I don't want to be a politician! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] I am the so-called policy-free finance minister who has nothing to do with politics on a daily basis! Who do you want to say this to, Mr. Minister? There you have to organize self-hypnosis hours if you want to start to believe it yourself. That's absurd! Of course you are politicians! Of course you are! And of course you have to make political decisions every day! And of course the government is a political body! And, of course, Parliament is a political body where you are responsible and where you have questions to answer, as you do today, and we will ensure that you also have this knowledge. By the way: A particularly interesting question will be how this is with your personal homepage. You have a very special one! You know, I like to look at your personal homepage, I also want to know who is financing it and who is doing it. And I'm healing that I've stood inside – I've looked into it again today – under the title “One Childhood Dream”: “A finance minister also once believed in the Christian child.” – This information is very important to me. I hope that today, as Minister of Finance, you do not still believe in the Christian Child! But that really gives me insight into your personality and decision-making structure. – Nicking the daily homepage users. Thank you to the Members of the FPÖ who have agreed to this. In any case, I would be interested: Who's paying for this? That's very serious! Who's paying for this? Or do you want to be right with your taxpayers for it, or do you want to have your taxpayers made in the final effect advertising for a person? Diaserie, radio spots – my God! Then there's the switching of ads, and I've noticed an advertisement. So I really just looked like this: A full page in the Financial Times. I even had this photographed, because it's really remarkable. [[The speaker shows the respective page from the Financial Times.]] – That cost 59,019 €! I admit: It's a big listing and it's a lot of paper, because the paper's a little bigger too. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: How much does that cost?]] – 59,019 €, that's 700 000, 800 000 s in old currency, where the real subject of this ad is the photo and the smile when you ask me. In any case, this is quite prominently placed, and then, of course, there is a little bit about Austria. This is likely to increase the recognition value at the meetings he completes when he travels to America. Is it right for you as entrepreneurs to find your taxpayers in the Financial Times in the order of €59 000? – Then I find that remarkable! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It is not right for me to make Austria ready abroad!]] I think that this is actually irresponsible, this permanent self-appropriation and, if you smell, the self-consecration.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10052	Deputies! I forgot to stop the clock. You're at 20 minutes. I'd ask you to come to the end.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10067	I say something to you, Mr President, I will really try to do this, but allow me two more sentences because I have not been able to prepare for it now. I would, of course, have arranged the speech completely differently. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at SPÖ.]] I would just like to point out a very last point: I have read today in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” about this EADS contact and that you have already talked to the EADS people, so to speak. And then you say you've actually talked to everyone: You talked to the Deputy Prime Minister of Sweden about the flu, you talked to the US ambassador about the F-16, and you probably also wanted to talk to the Foreign Minister or the President of EADS. However, this has been difficult because it is a company, and unfortunately you have had to talk to business representatives. I'll tell you: That's why we're calling on the investigation committee. We just want to know: What have you discussed with these business representatives, and why has this change of mood suddenly occurred in the Council of Ministers? – That deserves an investigation committee! And this will also clarify the many, many faces of Karl-Heinz Grasser – and in that case it is the Eurofighter face that needs a special reconnaissance.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10106	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for Finance spoke. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10125	Thank you many times, Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Gusenbauer said this morning that he was trying to ensure a fair assessment of the 2003 and 2004 budgets. Mr Cap never needs to say what he is trying to do, because his party policy polemics, I think, is more than known – and I thank you for, honestly, never getting as laughed on a normal working day as if I were allowed to follow your remarks on the urgent matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] As you have referred to my dissertation, I may give you two advice: The first is: Lifelong learning would not harm you either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And the second – believe me, it's really constructive –: If you substitute 100 percent of serious work by polemics, then not much remains of credibility at the end of the day. I would therefore recommend that you change this policy. I will not reply in this way, but I will reply to you with serious work, Mr Cap. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would also like to thank you on this occasion for the urgent request because it gives me the opportunity to take 20 minutes in public to comment on a matter that you have tried to vent a little subcutaneously in the media in the last few weeks, regardless of my answers to the questions I have made on this matter. You'll see that nothing of all the self-representation and advertising accusations you've made here is right. The fact is that hundreds – I emphasize: Hundreds! – million € savings for taxpayers have been developed with a variety of projects. If I may, as it were, start with some actual corrections: First point: You claim in your request that what the professors have advertised for the future would be a manipulated call. I can tell you: Firstly, this is not manipulated, but obviously real. Secondly, it is not the independence of teaching in danger, of course, but professors such as a Prof. Streissler, like a Prof. Winckler, like a Prof. Arnulf Rainer – and many others who have joined this initiative now – do not need to be instrumentalized in party politics, but they have an interest, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the guarantee of the welfare state. And they have appealed to all political parties and to the social partners and have said: Look at reality! Recognize that the steadily rising cost of the pension system is endangering our future, reform today to secure our social system tomorrow! We reformed yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, because we decided yesterday on important structural reforms that will ensure the future and prosperity in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They're asking me: Who paid that? – I can make the second actual correction: In your urgent request, if you had read it, you would have cost 190 000 € and the Federal Ministry of Finance would have paid it. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that, of course, no cent, no euro comes from the Federal budget, from the taxpayer, from the Federal Ministry of Finance or elsewhere. This is not paid with public money! I have also answered the two first questions. In the third question, ask me about the costs and the graphic presentation. Ladies and gentlemen! Since I'm not the client, I can't tell you who paid it and who made the graphics. But take note: This is an independent initiative of almost 50 professors who are concerned about our country and the future of this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Maybe two more half-sets: If you had tried to read the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, and in addition to what you have just quoted, you could have learned that the Federal Press Office has refused and made this clear: There is no funding from the Federal Budget. First point. Second point: If you were to observe the processes in Germany, you would have noticed that there was also an initiative by more than 100 German professors there, who said: “Throw the beginning of the reform!” – But that also means: What is permitted in Germany will have been permitted by our professors for a long time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Third point of actual correction: They claim that there are no recognizable successes associated with our consulting contracts, but only taxes on taxpayers. To that I must honestly answer: You obviously do not see the forest in front of loud trees, because so numerous, so recognizable and proven are the successes of our work, and I may also give you some examples. They say: Cost by Arthur Andersen: 4 290 000 €. - That's right. The potential for savings, which is opposite to that – and unfortunately you do not say that, therefore, no fairness –: First point: Support processes, for example, vehicle park reform, house management reform, kanzleiwesen reform, library reform – savings potential: [[Abg. Eder: Every housemaster knows!]] 46.1 million €. Second point: Accounting reform: Saving potential € 72.7 million. Third point: a whole series of Arthur Andersen projects in all Federal Administration departments with a savings potential of € 109.1 million. Ladies and gentlemen! You see: First of all, it is unfortunate that these initiatives have not already been implemented by my predecessors. Secondly, it is important and good for taxpayers that we have taken this initiative. This will reduce the cost of administration and provide a room for relief. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Second point: They charge costs of A.T. Kearney for a reform of procurement of € 2.6 million. - That's quite right. We have spent € 2.6 million on creating a federal procurement agency, which you have not been able to do in the 30 years in which you have been responsible. We said: If we combine the demand power of the federal government, we buy cheaper! Instead of having twelve, 13, 14 procurement departments together, we try to buy more cheaply for the taxpayer. The amount of procurement in the first year amounted to € 290 million, the savings from this reform measure amounted to € 29 million. Ladies and gentlemen! The volume of procurement has been increased by an additional €250 million. We therefore expect savings beyond €50 million this year. So €2.6 million is a savings potential, realized in 2002, compared with €29 million. Today, more than 50 million people will be saved. This is a courageous reform project. It benefits the taxpayer, it reduces the costs in public administration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Third point: They lead to divestments of federal apartments with a total cost of € 10.8 million. [[Abg. Eder: This is a scandal that you are performing! Who pays that? – The tenants pay for it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This €10.8 million will face sales revenues in the range of €600 million to €1 billion. This means that costs in a range of 0.82 per cent to 1.37 per cent, even after how high sales revenues will actually be. Fourth point: You led the KPMG. Cost of € 788 000. You have not said that the sale proceeds for the sale of the Bundesverlag amounting to € 24 million. Fifth point: You led McKinsey with €344,000, Mummert & Partner, Infora – all the reform projects that concern a fundamental reform of the financial administration and customs administration, reform projects that are responsible for our success in reducing the staffing status in the financial administration by €1 854 heads and reaching €75 million in savings potential. Ladies and gentlemen! With these five examples alone, I have told you 20 million € that you have attacked, and you have worked with regulations. You have learned one thing, ladies and gentlemen: The costs are a fraction of the savings for the taxpayer. We have managed well, an excellent result for the taxpayer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I hope you now understand: If we spend money once for consulting expenses, then because we buy highly specialized expert know-how, with a clear objective, namely to achieve multiple savings, if possible already in the first year, but then continuously for taxpayers. Second point: If we buy advice services, then in order to sell non-commercial assets for the taxpayer as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Third point – I too would like to say that: If a company does not do anything if one moves little and is satisfied with the management of existing ones, then there is no cost either. [[Abg. Eder: Standbys!]] We have an ambitious work programme. We're starting new projects. We make from a poorly managed company that you have left us, a market leader in Austria with more quality of service for the population, for the entrepreneurs, at less cost, and thus will ultimately be able to discharge the taxpayer. Ladies and gentlemen! To answer your questions in concrete terms. I have already explained the first three questions concerning the professors. On Question 4: I would like to stress that no advertising campaigns are commissioned by the Federal Ministry of Finance. They have addressed the small and medium-sized operations. That's what I'm telling you out of deep conviction: The small and medium-sized enterprises, ladies and gentlemen, are the backbone of our economy. We have a common European strategy, the Lisbon process, which says we want to become the most competitive economic area. The creation of this most competitive economic area with growth and additional jobs will succeed if we are able to support this backbone of the Austrian economy, small and medium-sized enterprises. I understand if you say it's better if I sit in the office and don't go out. I'll tell you: This is not my understanding of politics. I'd rather go among the people, I'd rather go to the companies and talk to them about their concerns and problems. This will create a programme of action for small and medium-sized enterprises, and it will be implemented. If you look at our budget accompanying laws today, you can see: First point: The 13th. Sales tax prepayment has fallen. This was a result of this small and medium-sized business process. Second point: profits not collected, clear advantage, more equity, more opportunity to invest in businesses. – This was a result of the small and medium-sized business process. Third point: Reduction of additional labour costs. – This was a result of the small and medium-sized business process. Therefore: We're going out, we're talking to our entrepreneurs, and then we're going to put it into practice. It pays off: for businesses, for the economy, for workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As far as Question 5 is concerned, I should like to point out that this information offensive falls within the competence of the Federal Chancellor's Office and the costs are below the limits to which the Federal Ministry of Finance would have to be addressed in accordance with the Bundeshoudungsgesetz. Therefore, if I cannot pass on the data to you in the absence of knowledge, I would like to point out – and the Federal Chancellery will inform us – that the creation of the creative services was not even commissioned by an agency, but because one is economical, one has done it itself and is only responsible for the technical implementation of a production company. [[Abg. Oellinger: Thanks be to God!]] Here, too, you can see: Economics is continuing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On question 6: They ask why we are detailing why we are buying external consulting services. . We are only doing this, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to highly ambitious reform programmes, when it comes to complex reform steps with great economic scope. [[Abg. Oillingers: Reduction of additional wage costs – you need advice!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] In many cases, we enter the new country in our work programme. We have, as you know, taken over a reform stand, the sleeves have scrambled and the work has been done. That is why I would like to say once again: The costs of these advisory services are often earned already in the first year. From a technical point of view, despite the fact that I am right, Mr Cap, it would not have been responsible for these difficult projects, despite the excellent general expertise that exists in the BMF, we would not have bought additional, highly specialized expert know-how. Question 7: They already claim the x-te time that we had commissioned three consulting companies to sell the federal apartments. – This is not right, but we have concluded a contract in an EU-wide tendering procedure with an advisory firm, namely Lehman Brothers, for the best possible sale of the shares in their own housing companies. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If this company uses further subcontractors to carry out this task, it is of course permissible, but does not impose any additional costs on the federal government. I can answer questions 8, 9 and 11 together. I should like to add that I have already expressed myself on several occasions in parliamentary questions, and I would like to add that, in view of the complexity of this procedure and in order to ensure maximum transparency and objectivity, we have just commissioned two university professors to evaluate the offers which could contribute their external expertise. In order to achieve the greatest possible security in the processing of the proceedings, a law firm specialised in procurement law was entrusted with it and with the conclusion of the contract. They ask how many lawyers we have in the BMF. - We have 144 lawyers. No one of them deals exclusively with procurement procedures. There is no purely awarding department in my department, because this is one of the other tasks due to the small number. Therefore, we only add external procurement specialists in individual cases. I can tell you that it is also wrong that we would not benefit from the in-house know-how. On the contrary: Most of the contracts are completely carried out without the addition of external experts purely within the house according to the German Federal Procurement Act 2002. External consultants will only be involved in the award of highly complex services, where, for technical reasons, the exact subject-matter of the service can only be established in the course of the negotiation procedure which is thus necessary. I can tell you that even here, the success is right because none of these proceedings have successfully attacked the award decision. Every supplement we have given has kept. You know that this really saves costs when a procedure is lifted and a new one has to be implemented accordingly. Question 10: We have obtained three legal opinions in connection with the restructuring of the ÖBB. They ask: Why three and why of different lawyers? – This is very simple because the reform of the railway affects various specific legal areas, such as EU rail law, EU state aid law, procurement law and social law, and this is therefore a highly complex process. I can point out that the Austrian Federal Railways receive an annual subsidy of €4.1 billion from the taxpayer. External specialists have now helped us to identify a savings potential of €400 million, and we will now look at implementing it accordingly. I'll tell you: Every euro we invest in the restructuring of the ÖBB is a well-designed euro, because you have handed us over an unproductive and poorly managed company! We will reduce the costs for the taxpayer and make it a productive and well-led company. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Question 12: I was very fascinated when you said that Professor Marin, a recognised social rights expert, is making PR for us. – While he often says that the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government are right, I think he says this with the critical distance of a professor and a great expert. I can therefore say to you: Its institution, which, by the way, includes 20 countries that also participate financially in it – and Austria is one of these states – is normally supported by an annual basic subsidy, as is the case with the Wifo, the IHS and the WIW. That means: If you say, If you remove the subsidies for the Wifo, for the IHS and for the European Centre for Welfare Policy, then this is your policy. We won't do that! We appreciate these institutions, we support them because they do good work. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: They work more efficiently than Euroteam!]] On the question 13: The overall contract is divided into a number of individual services, which can be accessed and retrieved as necessary. These individual benefits are structured into five work packages. The concrete billing took place after actual effort. To the extent that a recovery of the Chamber of Commerce according to the type of performance appeared appropriate, this was of course also possible on the train of the order. On Question 14 I would like to point out that I am already on 22. In May 2003, a survey report was sent to the President of the National Council in accordance with § 40 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to draw attention to the wide-ranging response to the 105 individual questions which Mr Cap and colleagues gave me on 13 December. ==References====External links== These documents should also have been used as a source of the figures you mentioned in the introduction. Ladies and gentlemen! The last question, Question 15, concerns my personal home page. – I hope she has found pleasure in you! Obviously you are one of the customers and look at them more often. Ladies and gentlemen! This is good, because it has important content that you can record and should possibly also transport. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, I would like to point out that this question is not subject to the right of question in accordance with § 90 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – Thanks many times for the signal! – But I would like to hold on so that there is no rumour here: Of course, no single euro and no single cent of my private homepage is financed with tax money. Of course this is not the case! It would be very plump if I had to say something else to you on such a question. Of course, this homepage is private and funded by sponsors. I would also like to say to you: There's no promotion... – I know you don't want to hear the answer, let go [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But you're still doing me, 'cause you asked me about it: In this respect, there is no support from companies that have or have an economic relationship with the BMF. With this, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the conclusion: Every euro that we spend on consulting services brings a lot of savings for the taxpayer. At the end there will be lower costs for public administration, a relief and more growth will be possible and, finally, more employment for Austria will be the result of this successful reform process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10429	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Deputy has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10453	Mr President. Mr. Chancellor! Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The most truly remarkable and striking response to the Minister's replies was the tired applause of courtesy, which is only partially donated from your ranks, ladies and gentlemen. Minister! Many followers you no longer have in the High House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But you have to understand! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] If a party-free Finance Minister is running self-advertising by €50 million, then no one is in favour of it, not even you, Mr Scheibner! No one understands this, neither the ÖVP nor the FPÖ, nor the Greens, nor even the Social Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen! It is becoming more and more obvious: The paint's gone! There is a minister who lives on advertisements and posters, who nourishes himself from the bred and prays down plates, as he has shown impressively today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President Dr. Khol! They sometimes call it “brillant”, even if Plus and Minus are confused in a budget speech, and this suggests evil as far as the speech by my colleague is concerned. You will probably say that the members of the government are all very, very economical. For example, Minister Bartenstein even saves when he buys shoes. He fights bit by every percent discount he can only achieve. Or: Minister Grasser, for example, saves her clothes. All of this has already been proven and known! At the time, he has also saved the tuition fees, i.e., Ladies and gentlemen, shortly after he saves his presence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grossruck: Now it's going to be very deep!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I should like to thank But I will also bring a few examples where the Federal Government really saves impressively. – It saves impressively in social justice! And the Federal Chancellor has saved a complete economic platform for interception hunters. You have to imagine that! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you also have something fresh in the herbal garden?]] The Minister of Defence certainly saves the reading of the Eurofighter reports in the daily newspapers in the last few days. Mr Vice-Kanzler's head saves energy, because he moves on by falling over, and many of the FPÖ and some of the ÖVP likes it so much that they also participate in it! Minister! They actually buy the praise even from university professors. Of course, you have remained guilty of the answer who finally paid for these ads. After the present state of your reply, it was the taxpayer, because something else, Mr Minister, you have not yet reported to us here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] It is anyway, Mrs Fekter, your method of letting people say something positive to the government against payment. There's this television spot with the bursting dam, and a paid pensioner says something friendly. Ladies and gentlemen! However, there are also unpaid opinions from the population. It is only once that you have to look at the letter of readers and the postings on this zig-million-€ waste of the Austrian Minister of Finance. These numbers need to make someone tasty, whose future pension will no longer be 900 €, but will only cover 810 € per month!, for example, in such a letter of readers. “This must not only be a case for the Court of Auditors, but also a case for the prosecutor.” Mr Finanzminister! In another post – it is simply inconceivable, as it must be an entrepreneur! – it says: And ours has to find an income of up to 46 percent with a tax rate! - Quote. Minister! I'll make a few comments. “It was assumed that this would be so, but it is nevertheless a huge scandal!” “Thank you and respect for the people in the Ministry of Finance. There should be more courageous and sincere people!" ‘Many artificial packaging at maximum prices. Everything on the account of the people, but, sorry, without content!" Another attentive observer writes: "220 million schilling, 1 000 industrial workers. What is it that stirs up? This is only the tuition fee of 44 000 students. I would also like to write my dissertation of business consultants and let the whole thing be paid by the taxpayer.” – Mr. Stumpfully, you can then go into it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] And another comment: “Coca Cola” Austria spends 90 million schillings a year for product advertising, “Red Bull” had to come out with 20 million schilling in the first year, only grass used for recreation and self-advertising 220 million schilling a year.” [[Abg. Faul: That's unimaginable!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Two more points, on the one hand, on a matter which is very, very worrying to the right and to the state, and on the other hand on a matter of character. Karl Heinz Grasser in the Inconsistency Committee in March of the year 2000 said that he would, of course, pay attention to the strictest respect for the reasons of partiality in his further contacts with companies of the Magna Group. Ladies and gentlemen! But what can be read in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” today? – Of course he has conducted negotiations! This is of course a matter of course for the Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Mr. Deputies! Take German after help!]] Mr Finanzminister! This can no longer be included under cover, but there you have a massive problem! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to refer to the matter of character. Everyone who was there last year remembers: It was also hot at this time last year, and the Minister of Finance then described it as inconceivable in a newspaper interview that politicians and delegates simply say good-bye during the hot season. However, this article also stated that since the beginning of the week, the Minister of Finance has been staying in a five-star bungalow facility with extensive garden on the island of Crete. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Vrannitzky has a second residence in Crete!]] – Mrs Fekter, you can comment on this! Mr Finanzminister! As life often plays this way, the cost factor for Forstinger is also mentioned in this newspaper note: For the press conference “One Year Forstinger” alone, 196 consultant hours cost €28,054! Mr Finanzminister! A certain affinity between Forstinger and you is already noticeable here! Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen: Mrs Forstinger has rejoiced only 10 percent of what the Minister of Finance is spending. That's really awesome! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! A short time on this matter of character: If you think of the colleagues here in the House and then leave yourself on holiday, you can say that he is not very deeply rooted in character. Mr Minister, I would like to give you another advice, and that does not cost me anything: You can't buy character, even with the taxpayer's money. You have character – or you don't have it, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10601	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10643	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You will remember Mr Cap's speech. As a special Corpus delicti, he held a copy of the Financial Times with a photo of the Minister of Finance. Mr Cap! To this end, I would like to say: I am a photo of the Minister of Finance, with which he operates international advertising for Austria's economic location, much better than those photos that have gone around the world, on which Dr. Gusenbauer, with champagne, launched sanctions against Austria. I prefer my first photos! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I am always very careful with forecasts, but I dare to predict that what you intend to do with this request to weaken a successful finance minister will not reduce his sympathy values by a tenth of a point. [[Abg. Reheis: Now you don't think anything!]] People are looking through this cheap strategy! It is also not the same as before the election of former Minister of Finance Edlinger during a discussion in the Falter publishing house where I was there: The Minister of Finance has these high values of sympathy because he is young and bold. – I said at the time that it is an insult to the Austrians if they believe that they only judge it. [[Abg. May. Worm: There you were jealous!]] Rather, people know that this finance minister stands for three things they also want: stability in the government budget and no new debt, a tax reduction policy and a policy of future security. That is what people, ladies and gentlemen, know! And that's why you can't blackmail the Minister of Finance with such primitive requests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It stands for a policy of this federal government, which is undoubtedly a turnaround to 30 years of socialist finance ministers and to 30 years of expansive debt policy by SPÖ finance ministers. – This is the Minister of Finance! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] But let me now come to the subject: Mr Cap! I made a speech here two days ago on the budget accompanying law, and I didn't know you were going to make this urgent request today. As you will recall, I then meant that if this government made a mistake in the pension reform, it is not situated at the objectives, the content, the formulation, and also not at the dose. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The only progress in the Ministry of Finance is that stupidly no longer is there!]] If a mistake is made, then this one: It was not communicated enough. I'm one of those who keep saying: Politics is communication. I said that years ago. You can ask your former Chancellor Vranitzky. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] In the cabinets of Vranitzky I and Vranitzky II, I was State Secretary. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That was a bad time!]] At that time I said: What this government lacks is the psychological-medial preparation of brilliant reform projects, because that is state art. State art means making the long-term necessary majority capacity. And there is no shame in teaching professional consultants, Mr Cap! Faith [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Professor Stummful!]] You don't want us to make long lists of what your former finance ministers have awarded everything to external experts! However, I would really be too cheap to think of each other now, Mr Cap! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Please get a stupid quote!]] Mr Cap, you have offered a perfect cabaretist performance here at the speaker's desk. You don't need to extend this cabaret now by intermediate calls. When young colleagues said that a lot of time had passed in Parliament with discussions, I meant: If you're going to the Simpl, you'll have to pay for it, you'll have the cap for nothing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: For free, but not for free!]] [[Abg. Faul: We don't have the Minister of Finance for free either!]] Mr Cap! What I have said now was, on the one hand, a compliment, but on the other hand, a request for a little more consideration in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me just say something: The information of the citizen is an essential necessity, especially in the case of such fierce reform projects as it has started this government. There is nothing worse than to believe that, just because we know something is necessary, we can already implement it politically. I have also often experienced in discussions on pension reform that people have asked about it: Why doesn't that tell us? If you point out that there have been these or those press releases anyway, I think those communications experts who say: If a message is not sent at least ten times, it does not arrive. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's why you're still making the same speech!]] What we all lack – Mr Colleague, I do not take it out! – is the courage to repeat. Therefore, information policy in an information society is also an important part of government policy, and I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for taking seriously the task of preparing politically important reforms through relevant information. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Shouldn't you have applause?]] Mr Gusenbauer! My group does not need your efforts! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] Last week I held a longer discussion with the CEO of a large international group, which has created competence centres for seven products worldwide in Austria. He told me that he actually has a problem: Austria is a good location for innovations but does not have the appropriate image. He also said: You don't need to take any more money into your hands for promotions, but you have to make sure that you improve Austria's image as an innovation location. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] And I promised him that we would sit down and work out a concept of how to improve Austria's image as an innovation location through better information policy and PR. This is not about billions of funding, it is only about information! PR is advertising on public confidence, and it is about presenting Austria as an industrial location, business location and innovation location worldwide. To do this, you have to take money into your hands, and this is well-invested money, Mr Cap! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Their second accusation in addition to information policy concerned the acquisition of external know-how: Dear colleague Cap! You also need to know – and you have shown it in part in your request anyway – for which projects expert know-how is used, namely for even epochal reforms! We decided here about two years ago on the new supervision of the financial market. I said at that time that your Minister of Finance Androsch had already tried to reform and withdraw from the Ministry of Banking Supervision in the 1970s. For 30 years, however, this was not possible, and it was only possible – I said that too – to prepare this project very professionally. A project group with a lot of international know-how under the chairmanship of Professor Zechner worked for a year. Ask your Kurt Heindl, who has already left: He has also acknowledged that a lot of expert knowledge has been done and we have made a very modern law with a lot of international experience. This is a good investment in the quality of our legislation, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Heil Augustus! Salve imperatore!]] We have founded the federal procurement company, Mr. Cap! You always talk about the costs, which shows how little you understand about economy! In the economy, the costs of performance are constantly offset. The Minister of Finance has rightly pointed out that the savings potential of this federal procurement company alone was around 10 percent, which is equivalent to almost €50 million and is therefore a multiple of the acquired expert know-how. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Third example [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: another quote?]] If we now have a complete redefinition of the federal administration, where the principles of New Public Management are implemented in concrete terms, this is an epochal reform, and we must take money into account for that. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A quote is still going on!]] I always defend the staff of the Ministry of Finance, that's why I've been nagging at your passage, there are excellent people sitting there. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's right!]] But one doesn't exclude the other. And actually, I thank the Minister of Finance for not playing the nation's obergscheiterl, but saying: I want to make reforms and also buy expert know-how, although I have excellent people. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I think the ÖVP should have the eye talk next time!]] We both need it! We need excellent officials, but we also need to do what every company does, namely to buy expert know-how on the market. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Do you know what we need? We need a stupid quote!]] Mr Cap, once again: With this request, as with many other urgent requests, you will land a abdominal area. It can only be right for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10943	The next speaker in the urgent question is Mr Bucher. Your speaking time is limited to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10968	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Ongoing calls and calls between representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Dr. Fekter.]] [[Call:Listen to]] Criticism is important, right and necessary at a time when there is an overflow of information and a lot of information, especially political information in everyday life. That's what we're confessing! We liberals were also always a very critical party. [[Call the SPÖ:Waren! Wares!]] . We are a critical party, but to an extent and with a style that differs fundamentally from your style, Mr. Cap, because what you have offered today is really a cabaret strip. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: He was good!]] [[Call: This is a game of mourning, not a cabaret]] If, after your political activity, you do not get a job in the Cabaret Simpl, I may suggest that you come to the Villacher Fasching. I will do everything, I will assert my influence so that you will get there in the future a stage on which you will have these performances that you need to make an effective representation of your policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Your neighbor, Mr Gusenbauer, has already received a taste at the last Villacher Fasching, when I think of his punctual idea with the head of state. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the urgent question you have put to us today is concerned, we are confessing a serious and justified criticism. However, we are also committed to the advisory services necessary to enable all the disseminations, privatisations and, above all, the administrative reform as we all wish, as all Members of this House have wanted to do for many years. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's right! In the case of such a Minister of Finance, there is a great deal of consulting!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Doubling the helpless!]] To this end, we need to keep in mind this objective and to exploit all the cost-saving potentials that are possible – through external advice, through expert proposals that are necessary to expand our own horizon and also the horizon of our very good officials and to take advantage of all possibilities. I'm going to answer your questions in detail now. With regard to the reorganisation of the financial management, I must say: They have always called on the Federal Government to create a modern financial and administrative service company. That is also the claim we make. That is why I do not understand that if the Minister of Finance and the Federal Government meet this request, you will refuse to go along with such a urgent request. Or: Restructuring the ÖBB. – The Austrian federal railways, ladies and gentlemen, have a debt of about 60 billion Schilling. This is a huge amount which greatly limits the Federal Government in its financial scope. Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion I may refer to campaigns commissioned by your former Transport Minister Caspar One, for example: “Rail instead of traffic addicts!” [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] [[Abg. May. Prammer:... this is a difference!]] This campaign has also devoured 32 million schillings, but no one has spoken to the Minister for Transport and has asked him to justify this. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Oja! The FPÖ!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That was a bad campaign!]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: But you haven't even seen the one!]] And I'm saving you the famous discussion about the Euroteam affair. I am saving you that we are still discussing this today, ladies and gentlemen. Professional expertise is essential in dealing with targeted reforms, because it is a complex question in this very courageous approach of the Federal Government, which does not press to deal with this hot iron that you have left behind in the form of a reform stage. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The tears come to me!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Cut, cut!]] I also believe that citizens have a right to information, to correct information. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: But not on propaganda!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Agitprop is that!]] And it is better for me – also as a Member of Parliament, and here I speak for my group too – that money be invested in consulting services instead of making wrong political decisions that later ask taxpayers to check out. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Before the Minister of Finance does it himself!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Nothing is more expensive for taxpayers than a false political decision that has often been imposed on some politicians in the past. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You're having a hard time today, very hard!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: It's pretty tough!]] And we have learned from the recent media reports that, as part of the Round Table, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has also called for an offensive information campaign on pension reform. These are therefore valuable recommendations, which the Federal Government has adopted and which will also be made in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Why are you so hard?]] Our group stands, as has been said, on these activities, all of which were also decided by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11276	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11294	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! So it looks like a supposed sparvy has been caught more than three times in a row in just a few days, in the face of dizziness and in other things. [[==References====External links== Grass]] [[Call the ÖVP: “Smite”?! “Swirl”?- Oh, my God!]] This is where we stand and defend ourselves with the fact that Mr. Cap has made an admitted contribution in between. But he has made a very serious urgent request, you can't disappear again! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In the last few weeks, you have become quite obvious, at least as far as the role of a Minister of Finance is concerned – we could talk about other roles – and I must tell you that, decently manoeuvring in the out! But now it's actually over with fun! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The budget speech, accompanied by the famous advertising statements, at least one thing, is that very probably wrong information has been given. Professor Van der Bellen has predicted it to be stoned and clear to you. In your dissertation, you may also be interested in the following: What is an extension of the balance sheet? What can I say about it and what not? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But it is much more serious – and you have to mention it in the context, you have to mention it! – with a seemingly unacceptable influence on a very expensive award procedure in the open time before the award decision has fallen, with possible influence on the outcome of this decision. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's it!]] This is very serious and no longer funny at all! I really ask you how you remember to clarify this thing once again, and then actually. What you have so far offered was actually not a self-defense, but a self-examination, which no longer surprises us, since the fact is overwhelming. I really want to know what else to laugh about. There's nothing left to laugh, that's a tragedy for taxpayers! And there it is added to the picture that you – third – are caught by it – and I am not talking about the consultation agreements now, I would like to expressly distinguish this from this request... – That is not incredible, that is unfortunately credible! [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Unfortunately wrong!]] I'm now talking about the advertising campaigns you're bringing up to your own person, and similar things. As usual, you operate according to the motto: If I throw the money out the window with both hands, there will be another door for me somewhere! – And this procedure is no longer in line with the sparifroh! There's no sense of joy, because there's been no talk of saving for a long time. That is why we now look at the things in a row again. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As far as the consultation agreements are concerned, I have offered you to distinguish this from the other topics, because, of course, this has a certain effect, provided that it is good advisory services. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Sure!]] It won't be a reasonable person to argue with. That was not the intention of the urgent question put by Mr Cap and colleagues, just as I did. Of course you can now say: The federal apartments have an approximate value of – what I know – 600 million euros, one billion euros, and there soon disappears a consulting contract in the percentage sum. – A piece of art! The question is: What's going to buy? Who is invited to such a consultation agreement? Has this been written out at all? And: Who finally became it? Arthur Andersen, these were the ones who gave Enron excellent advice. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That was at the federal apartments...!]] We have the results. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That was Lehman, deputies!]] - Please? [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That was Lehman, not Arthur Andersen! They're baffling the advisor!]] - Then I'm grateful to you. I really agree with my mistakes when they did. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser:... not the only mistake!]] I want to believe this correction. Nevertheless: The problem with these consultative agreements is not one of the percentages of the total profit you represent, the problem is the question of political decision in the past: What is to be privatized and what is not? When you sit down and say, I privatize everything! - Oh, great! Then some consultant comes and gets another 10 million. To put that in relation to half the federal assets is no justification. That's where the question is simply scrambled around. If you then explain to us that New Public Management has been forced to do so, I say: Counselling service, good night! What new public management did you discover? Where's something going? When you talk to the officials who are really engaged... – Thank you! [[Abg. Broukal: It was Arthur Andersen at Enron, says the Google at least! Perhaps... the Minister of Finance knows...!]] [[Call the ÖVP:But not at the federal apartments!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Did something sleep again, Mr. Broukal!]] Let's refer to Google, let's refer to the search engine: for now Arthur Andersen again. – Perhaps you should make appropriate corrections on your homepage. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: It was the Lehman with the federal apartments, Mr. Deputies!]] From a New Public Management is hardly anything to discover, but you're leading this as a special success. This can have nothing to do with these consultative agreements if they are so good. But let's put this aside! [[Calls and calls between Mr Broukal and Mr Fekter.]] The problem of such government campaigns or campaigns by individual ministries is as follows: Where is the limit of the permitable? – Of course, you can always argue about that. I do not want to say that no money should be spent on advertising by the government or by a ministry at all, but it is always about what is “informed” – under quotation marks. The question is that the maximum area should be used for a Minister of Finance. That can't be the meaning and purpose! This is anachronistic for the taxpayer. You're giving the saver, but in order to build this picture, you'll throw the taxpayers' money out! That doesn't fit together, and that's the problem with history! I am not alone with this criticism, so I have asked for a current Court of Auditors report which we are going to discuss in committee. You yourself will have the opportunity to comment on the allegations in the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. That is where we will go seriously and indeed. We have also dealt with the problem of what is actually going on with these government campaigns. In contrast to previous practice, the Court of Auditors strongly recommends that clear directives and criteria for this area be drawn up at last. But: What do we read? – The government is opposed to this being considered not to be useful, and this would be detrimental to public disclosure. – We know your occasions. That's how it goes! And that's the difference: Will this inform a citizen or a citizen of his/her rights as regards his/her/her/her/her/her/her/s/her/s/s/s) of any service of the State or not? – No, you have to consume the pictures of the Minister of Finance! You have to read: No new debts! - And what else do I remember? Whether that is true or not is sausage. That's the problem! That is why you should not react relatively contrary to Court of Auditors' reports – in this case this is even an official case, because we have it – but rather simply take these views and, as I think, you should even bow to them. So the problem with all these things is self-representation. If – and this is what I really want to distinguish from these consulting contracts – if it is true, Mr. Federal Minister for Finance, that ten appearances – you can correct me if it is not true – for your part – I do not know exactly what you were doing – teaching to apply for, to what I know about small and medium-sized enterprises cost more than € 2 million, then I wonder if these entrepreneurs would no longer have had it if they had shared the money and just transferred it to them. They could have done something with that. [[Abg. Grossruck: This is green economic policy!]] But what happened there is obviously the pure self-representation – at tax-paying costs! And you just can't accept that. There are dividing lines to draw! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Like a sect preacher!]] In this respect, the finding as regards the amounts for advertising campaigns, and especially the person of the Minister of Finance, is relatively clear: Here has been passed from Savephroh to the master of wastefulness! This will certainly continue to concern the public. You have hardly given an opinion on the individual figures listed here. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] - No, you didn't! In this case, it is a good thing that there is a committee of inquiry, namely the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11560	Mr Kogler, the voluntary speaking time is over. I'm setting you the last minute of legal speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11575	The question of the interception hunters will be another question. But I'm telling you: There too, we will not be going around a committee of inquiry – and you, with your responsibility, too. Only: In contrast, this is about the hundred times the sum! And it's no longer just about wastefulness, it's actually about serious suspicion – and I repeat it – of pushing.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11602	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. The clock is set to 7 minutes – voluntarily. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11631	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who has to do with business knows that you can't sell a bad product even by advertising. And people are very different whether your product, your policy content is good or bad. And a very typical example of bad politics are the processes around the sale of the state-owned apartments. If I may remind you very briefly: Two and a half years ago, by selling the BUWOG apartments – for the time being, only the tenants were thinking about – the Minister wanted to make a lot of money available for the budget. However, there have been obstacles in the sale once again. It has been said that there must be a certain percentage – at first of 30 percent of the talk, which has then been reduced to 25 percent – of the tenant to buy, so that it will come to a sale to them at all. Then, inadmissible payments of 7,500 – still at that time – have been put into space schilling. And the Federal Minister has always said that a sale to third parties is not in the foreground at all. In fact, it is quite clear that everything has just gone beyond that and that these apartments are to be sold to companies, to real estate companies and investors. In this context, an article in the “Presse” of 5th April 2000 is also available. June of this year very interesting, in which colleague Großruck has given an interview, in which, among other things, the statement has also been made that the high rents... – Yes, but listen to the result, that is interesting, because it has always been said of a rental increase at the cooperative apartments in the retiring. [[Abg. Großruck: That was unpaid, the interview!]] In this interview it was said that this pressure had been exerted by Mr Finanzminister. You have distanced yourself from a planned rental increase in renting. I found this very interesting in this context, especially in view of the fact that large investors should buy these apartments. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Maybe for information: There have also been processes against the BUWOG. In this respect, there has already been an interim order, and yesterday in Linz a judgment against the WAG apartments was made, in which it was legally clarified that there were illegal conditions of sale for the tenants. And that's actually unheard of! They are not even willing to comply with the minimum requirements in a rule of law, but on the other hand, large amounts are spent here, as was the case in the Second Republic of a Member State. That's really unheard of! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The tenants themselves can only expect disadvantages: Delays have arisen, the tenants who want to buy – very few are – are uncertain, costs have been incurred. The whole process has to be questioned, and a question has to be put in the foreground: Who's the use of this? Which groups of persons benefit from such a planned sale? [[Call the ÖVP:The future owners!]] - The future tenants? It is only a small percentage that wants to buy, but social housing has a very important and enormous importance in Austria. [[Abg. Großruck: Is this a urgent matter or something else? Are you talking about the emergency or something else?]] The tenants certainly don't have the advantage. The basic need for housing is covered by social housing. The employees of the BUWOG have no special advantage either, because this is a proper, thriving establishment with safe jobs. Stays a group that may have advantages: the Bankhaus Lehman & Brothers and the law firm. In some cases they have already received 10.9 million euros from the Minister for a project which has so far been completely failed, and the others are paid out. [[Abg. Großruck: Do you think “Euroteam”, or what do you mean?]] [[Abg. May. Worm: BUWOG sale!]] The public prosecutor will deal with this matter, because there has been an anonymous announcement, and now the situation will be examined. This ad claims – which is currently being examined – that consultation contracts have been awarded to related companies, although the offers have been too expensive. The cost difference is said to have flown into the pockets of employees – according to the "NEWS" of the 20th century. February. As a distributor of these commissions, a certain Karlheinz Muhr is called – according to an anonymous display. And if you, Minister of Finance, tell your office and your speaker that: You have nothing to do with this, you have to put Karlheinz Muhr in a context: He is Broker in New York, has friendly contacts with you, is consultant to Lehman & Brothers, from the Austrian Airlines, Supervisory Board at Frank Stronach – everyone knows that this was your employer once. [[Abg. Broukal: Carrier, not “war”!]] All this is now being examined, and you will see what comes out of it. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser:..., I hope you will apologize afterwards!]] - I'm just saying what's publicly known. On the question of why external consultants are used, you say the case is so complex and so difficult. – So far, there are actually no results except a flop and no results for the tenants at all. Questions raised during the last meeting are still open: Did Lehman & Brothers tell you whether this sale should be made in tranches, how high the attainable proceeds should be and whether it should be sold to foreign consortia? – I think that is a very essential question to be clarified here. Finally, to return to the product question, I would just like to say: It is time and appropriate that you improve your product, Minister of Finance. If you accept the SPÖ's proposals, follow our proposals, you can save expenses for advertising companies, and I guarantee you: [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: At the ‘cully-rudi’ or to whom?]] We won't demand a fee for it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11777	Mrs Fekter's next speech. For your information: The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11796	This urgent question is less addressed by the federal apartments, but consultation contracts are more provocative and information campaigns are being condemned for the citizens. Mr Cap, what is so bad about consulting services? – Actually, only simple spirits are of the opinion that they know everything themselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Mr Cap, what is so bad about expert support? – Professional management benefits from this service, and only unprofessional sausages without expert opinion. Or: What is so bad about information for citizens? Mr Cap has here quoted very cabaretistically that the Minister has carried out information campaigns for SMEs. – Ladies and gentlemen! Much too often it is criticized that there is a lack of information on government work. I remember: It is only recently that the President-in-Office has asked us to provide better information. So what's so bad about it? What's bad about people's contacts? – Cocktails and bread can be found as critical points in this urgent request. I remember: Cocktails and bread were also available at the chancellors of the socialist German Chancellors. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: It's been a long time!]] - It's been a long time, yeah. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Considering the subject matter serious: The Minister has listed what the advisory services have been provided for and the expertise has been drawn up. And I can tell you: Professional governance requires advice, expertise and, above all, information for citizens. The accusation of the opposition, however, concerns not only the advisory services but also the award of contracts to the private economy. It is not the accusation of the cost alone, which stands here in the room, but the SPÖ has in principle an absolutely disturbed relationship with private contracts, because it stands on the point of view, government work and the related services are to be handled only by state personnel. It is revealing that the sentence is found in this urgent request: “The use of private contractors for legislative preparations, regardless of the enormous cost level, also appears to be highly alarming.” That's weird. What's that supposed to mean? Can the economy no longer cooperate in the legislative process? May science not cooperate – except it is a pragmatized professor? What does that mean that you don't allow third parties to cooperate here? In the assessment process, there are also, so to speak, wide areas of the population. Can this only be institutional? So I didn't understand. In the request, the following sentence is added: “Never before in the history of the Second Republic have so many in-house services been outsourced to third parties by a finance minister...” – It’s true, and this sentence exposes your real motivation You have a disproportionate relationship to how to operate a slim state, how to use private services and get expert know-how. [[Call the SPÖ: That's right!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Saving is not that!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It's right – I agree with you – that we have excellent know-how in the public service and very many good officials and good experts. This applies in particular to the Ministry of Finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But that these officials don't have anything to do with your request, it's not right. The question is as follows: It is available “a large number of highly trained specialist officials” and their “matching know-how” is “broken in the place”. – Do you think they have nothing to do? [[Call at the SPÖ: Look, Mr Schweitzer is sitting on the Bundeskanzler chair! It's already come that far!]] I refuse to assume that the financial sector would have sufficiently broken capacities and officials who would have nothing to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The necessary service has actually been accepted by Mr Kogler in some way, namely that one can buy advice and expertise or can get advice – that, I believe, is undisputed, that is not disputed. That is, a dispute is how the Minister has forgiven it and that he has even commissioned strangers. [[Call to the Greens:And what does it cost?]] [[Abg. Oillingers: Also the price!]] What would have been the alternative? – The Minister of Finance would have had to create new posts for such expertise if it were assumed that officials in the financial sector did not turn their thumbs, but were diligent. It is necessary to question whether services are provided by domestic staff and their own experts or whether they are purchased. Such decisions have almost always been in favour of additional posts among socialist finance ministers. I'll tell you: Slender State means, however, preferring to award orders once, than to have posts for years on budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In addition to the criticism that they went to private, there was also criticism of the information campaign and the proximity of the Minister to the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! We have a constitutionally guaranteed right to freedom of the media and information. Note that there is no monopoly on information or disinformation, so the government will continue to inform the population properly and turn ads if it considers this to be necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11937	Next, Mr Pilz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11984	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For more than for my colleague Bucher it has not been possible, no more freedom is on the list of defenders. [[Abg. Neudeck: But that's not true! Actual correction!]] You have a perfect right to justice. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You have to say that too!]] It is certainly more reasonable not to exaggerate the defence of this Minister for Finance, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Neudeck: He’s not ‘ present’!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: He's presiding!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I would recommend similar things to the Austrian People's Party. Let us now come to some points. Like my group colleague Werner Kogler, I also urge that things be looked at as closely as possible. I am not going to deal with the various so-called "so-called" - the word "so-called" is already important - consultative agreements and not closer – perhaps we can do this elsewhere – consider the question, which actually means the double message: I am proud that I have dismantled 1 800 services, and I am forced to award more and more orders for particularly expensive money out of the house. [[Abg. May. Worm: And that abroad too!]] Don't you see any connection, Minister of Finance? – On the one hand, you obviously have too few people, and on the other hand you have too many people. What's going on with the personnel policy in your house? [[Interlocutory note by State Secretary Dr. Finz.]] Wouldn't it be necessary to shape personnel policy from the qualifications as well, so that if you need people for consultation, you also have it? – This is one point; the other is the propaganda output and circuits of ads where this question no longer arises. Let's go to the first campaign, the most expensive campaign, the so-called small and medium-sized business campaign. Federal Minister! We have received a detailed description of this campaign, the documents of the Ministry of Finance give very detailed information, and we know what you had to offer to small and medium-sized enterprises in addition to pension cuts, namely a lot of cocktails: Cocktails, cocktails, cocktails. Whoever comes to you, who visits an event, who admires you live and next door on the flat screen, gets cocktails. Cocktails are what you have to offer to the small and medium-sized economy, so I suggest that you at least bring in honest cocktails. I would like to show you an example of an honest cocktail, a mixture for which you can find a title yourself. [[The speaker takes a cocktail glass and, with the continuation of his speech, fills three liquids in the glass during the respective versions, with some liquid being poured.]] [[Call the ÖVP: The fungus is thirsty!]] Give a shot at the cocktail glass, Mr. Finanzminister, “Magna-Bitter” – it always comes first. Without “Magna-Bitter”, nothing is mixed with Karl-Heinz Grasser. That gives the basic tone, which gives the basic taste. [[Call at the ÖVP:But the cap's performance was better!]] Then comes “EADS juice”, the important “EADS juice” – then everything slides better. That's something like a pleasure lubricant. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] A ‘EADS juice’ on the ‘Magna biter’. And what you need a lot then are taxpayers' money, taxpayers' money, until the glass comes to an overflow, Minister of Finance! – This is a cocktail where you can think about what you call it. [[The speaker is handing over the Federal Minister of Government to the government bank. Grasser a drink.]] My proposal is, Mr Finanzminister: Call him “Shift and Dry, ” according to the biggest project you have to be politically responsible for. Let's just talk about this, we're talking about naming, because I'm already excited about what ads you're going to switch around around the Eurofighters. Is this going to be similar to the zero-deficit campaign? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Is it common for a bar mixer here?]] Will you then also re-acquire to contribute zero bock to the Austrians? Do you want to make it clear to the Austrians that they should have Bock to finance over 6 billion schilling? Do you want to make it clear to them that this isn't their money? Do you want to make it clear to them that a zero deficit will then be achieved? Here we come to the point where it becomes very, very serious. This is a point I would like to discuss with you in this urgent question: Ask your Secretary of State Finz – you know what he has answered to our question in the Committee on Budgets – why the Eurofighters did not choose the immediate payment variant and not the five-year variant: Because there the Eurofighters would have been number two everywhere! And why was the nine-year variant chosen? What was the reason why the Secretary of State for Finance made it clear to the Committee on Budgets? – Because we are able to accept a debt that we can hide from Brussels! The Secretary of State for Finance has declared: We are still able to accept a non- Maastricht debt and make a financial debt an administrative debt. So, ladies and gentlemen, today's zero deficit policy is being made by saying: Let us be indebted, but let us take the debt from the financial debt into the administrative debt, let us say in Brussels: Maastricht-moderately it has cost nothing at all, Maastricht-moderately we do not pay anything, Maastricht-moderate that is zero. And then probably the next listing comes again: Zero Bock to contribute? or: Zero deficit – now or never! Mr Finanzminister, this is not going to happen in the long run! The Austrians know just as well as you do that Eurofighter costs something, that a pension reform costs something, and that recovery and justification inserates cost something. Everything you do is at the expense of the Austrians, nothing is saved. Every euro – that's right! – is turned twice, but the luck is: Every euro that is turned twice by you, Minister of Finance, has gone away afterwards! This is the Grasser method: turn around twice and leave – but not individually, millions and billions! And now we are talking about billions who are on the fence, and there, Minister of Finance, will not help you with ads and no advertising. The Freedom Party will not help you much in the future either. There will be something to help us, namely the Austrian National Council, Austrian politics and a democratic and interested public...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12146	Mr Pilz! The voluntary speaking time has been over for a long time. I'm going to turn you on the last minute, the tenth of the legal speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12161	Thank you, Mr President, this is my final point: What this Republic deserves and what this National Council also deserves is complete reconnaissance and is a stopover of campaigns and wasteful actions of this kind. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12189	I'm asking a staff member to clean up the speaker's desk. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is really a cut-off! Next one's gonna make a schnitzeljause out there!]] The next speaker is Mr Gaßner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12217	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with today's urgent request and all that belongs to it, I have already seen a lot more unfair things than this speaker's mouth, which has been slightly sprayed with this mix today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Finanzminister! It's going to be exciting again, as it looks like with the truth. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The Gaßner becomes chairman of the Pilz Fan Club! That must not be true!]] Yes, unfortunately, it may be true. You have said Arthur Andersen Consulting is not identical to that of the consulting firm that advised Enron and Swissair in America. According to my information, she's identical, and if I look at the zero deficit, she has to be identical, because that's also a mess. At least that was it, now there is no longer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] 4 290 000 € She sponsored this company just to restructure to send 55-year-old qualified officials to the pension at full cost. These costs are not included. And do you know what your officials say about this? Do you know what those people said about this whole action by Arthur Andersen? Name of the following: They interviewed us, wrote down our ideas and provided us with a new mesh. Mr Finanzminister! These restructurings would have been cheaper if you had talked with your professional officials, with your qualified people. That wouldn't have cost 4 million €! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The reorganisation of the award process – also such a funny point; unfortunately, this is no longer a tragic point of these 27 million waste euros that you spent in three years. Today, they have justified the establishment of the federal procurement company. Are you really of the opinion, Federal Minister of Finance, that it is necessary to spend € 2.6 million on setting up an AG, which will then be jointly created? This could certainly have been said to you by your top officials, your top officials, who have been very much involved in all the procurement laws. Then the question also arises: If you already reorganize the award, why need Do you then get back to the individual awards for consultation? There comes again the name university professor Aicher under me. I have heard it these days, which I believe the Minister of Defence has also advised. Are all the awards of this federal government so - under quotations - "deviating" that you only get out with opinions? Skill You don't normally forgive, as we all do in the public sector? Are the Eurofighters really the problem, my dear friends? Ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Head: If you criticize every award, we have to do it!]] You can still attract thousands of experts: In the awarding of the Eurofighters will always be a little sluggish, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We've already talked about the ÖBB, why you need three companies and so on. Unfortunately, I don't have this time. But this SME action is already exciting, I must mention it very briefly. Everything has already been listed here: the shows with cocktails, the bread rolls, the events in the casinos and other beautiful houses. Mr Finanzminister! I would just like to mention today's press release by the Austrian Trade Union on this very subject of "promoting SMEs" and on this action that you have launched here. Do you know what the ÖGV – and this is absolutely not suspicious of being close to us somehow – means? – I quote: “Grasser told on his roadshows with his wonderful eloquence, of the great genius of the one-day fly, zero deficit.” “For this zero performance information” “the ‘adult of taxpayers’ of their own graces” “the economic operators could blaze themselves with bread from their own tax money”. “The Austrian Trade Association (ÖGV) is slowly plunging the forces.” – Original quote of this association, Minister of Finance. Just as much as you're promoting. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I recommend: If you really want to talk to small and medium-sized enterprises, you'll come to see me in Schwerberg's marketplace. I will really give you the opportunity to talk to those who need urgent support. You would have any chance without it costing you a schilling. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Finance Minister, the fact that university professors are not... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] – Murauer, watch what you're voting for, otherwise you'll be back in the paper! – 37 university professors have not cost anything. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Yes, yes! Let's take a test pass, Gaßner!]] They have not taken public money to suggest to the people how necessary the urgent decision-making of the pension reform is. Who paid that? – They stand before the Austrian Parliament and say: We're not! I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] And then you still have the courage to say, Minister of Finance, your own homepage is not financed by public funds either. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Of course not!]] All right, let's assume you paid her yourself. – But no, you tell us: paid by sponsors. Mr Finanzminister! That's gift acceptance. There is a section in my mind, namely § 304 of the Criminal Code, in which it is very clear what is meant here for officials who accept the gifts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What applies to officials also applies to you, Minister of Finance. We are reserved to talk to the prosecutor about what it is like if you accept gifts, Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Do this, please! Such a cowardice...!]] If you whisper to me here that this would be a naughtiness, then I say that it is a naughtiness if you tell Parliament that you get financed by private sponsors your homepage – let alone the maintenance costs! Who pays, then, Mr. Bundesfinanzminister? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Gaßner, you will be the motto: Something will already hang!, really just!]] My final sentence is as follows: The pensioners who will have a social pension reform next year will have less than €1,000 and then be asked to go to this fund and ask if they might get something, will think of something if in the fund in the first year there are €10 million inside and the Federal Finance Minister wastes €27 million in three years only on self-representation and advertising.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12410	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12429	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Let us look at the matter very soberly and then let us take stock of it very soberly in the sense of the Minister for Finance. [[Abg. Head: We're sober!]] Point 1: Mr Finanzminister, you certainly agree with me that it is tax money. We are discussing the use of taxpayers' money. - Good. Point 2: Minister! You certainly agree with me, we are discussing the question of consulting, the acquisition of know-how, new German: consulting. For this purpose, taxpayers are used. Yes, you have the right to buy yourself know-how in the sense of efficiency, in the sense of improving the state institutions. Only the question we ask is: to what extent, with what efficiency and with what result? And as far as this is concerned, we have so far learned from all the institutions concerned that, for example, Andersen & Andersen was far from worth the money you have invested. That is also a sobering fact. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Who claimed that?]] I asked myself: New Public Management is already being tried differently in the municipalities, in the federal states, partly also in the ministries. I can name you a community that has even won an international prize here: the Speyer Prize for Public Administration, the Community of Linz. At the same time, however, I can tell you that in order to achieve this price, the municipality of Linz has made minimal purchases of external know-how, but has primarily taken advantage of the inner know-how and has used internal sources of knowledge, internal sources of experience, that is, proven officials, to develop and drive innovative administrative projects. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's hard to compare!]] Zero costs and a great price and a great result! Please, that is what you should be doing in the ministries, because I believe that even in your ministries, as well as in your universities, people who know how things are doing better. The internal resources must be used! That's point 2. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser leaves his seat on the government bank and speaks to Abg. May. Molterer.]] I'm going to point 3. Minister! – You are not here right now! [[Call the SPÖ: He's over there!]] Therefore: Mr State Secretary – you always represent him very nice and very good! Point 3: political marketing. No question, political marketing is well justified at a time when marketing is used relatively superfluously at all. Only, Minister of Finance, I think, in the sense of the efficiency of the use of taxpayers, do you have the reins cut a little bit and shoot something over the target. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's impossible, Minister of Finance!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Finanzminister, I think it is a simple command of courtesy to listen to the others. In the sense of political marketing, you usually try to prove to the honourable Members that they are quite friendly, polite and also grateful. In the sense of this attitude, which you always have on your lips, I also personally ask you to show this attitude to me. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] . I speak very soberly, as you may be told by the Secretary of State. So point 3 to political marketing. Sure, that's necessary, it's quite successful, you might win electors. Only: Take the efficiency items, the tax money items and the Court of Auditors seriously! Return to what my colleague, Mr Kogler, has already quoted, the Court of Auditors' comments. I can quote them once again to harden them: “The financing of public works” is quite “allowable”. However, “participative election advertising” should not be allowed. You shouldn't focus on that. The need for legal framework here is undisputed, but we still lack it. They should first and foremost, especially as Minister of Finance, ensure that legal frameworks are created here, which do not lead to the use of tax funds for party-political marketing. But you're over the party anyway, with you the “KHG” is the punch or the brand. The ‘KHG’ advertising should: You can really get paid out of private bags. You do it too, but you forget, for example, when financing the homepage, that if you finance it privately, you certainly claim to be tax depreciation posts. That's why your statement is that no cent of tax money flows in, certainly only half the truth, because you write it off. So in that respect, hold a little bit away from the state. - Well, that was a little footnote. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That must not be true!]] Yes, my goodness, is honest, Mr. Klubobmann! ==References== The point, the award – and that is the central question for me. That's where I'm allowed to quote. Professor Raschauer has pointed out very clearly that there is now a trend in general that the Federal Government, especially you, Minister of Finance, always tries to get external advisory institutions to move and abandon internal know-how. I can quote again: “In this intensity, such orders never existed before. At present, it is probably fashion to award such orders to private individuals. There are, of course, lobbys behind it.” – This is not the assessment of any party political body, that is a sober assessment. These four points, Mr Finanzminister, are our accusation to you: Tax payments are not treated as efficiently as they should be. With regard to the purchase of advice, you might become a little quieter. With regard to political marketing, you should give up the use of fiscal means more, and if you are awarded, you should use internal know-how and not constantly buy external goods. I could talk about Lehman Brothers and the federal apartments for a long time now, just: That'll be an extra topic. This will be even closer and more extensive to us, because here we have the main bits of the accusation that lies at the table today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12567	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. If desired, the clock is set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12585	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Collaborator Pilz has poured around again – and, as you can see, once again nothing has remained. He also said that only a liberal is on the list of speakers. That too has not been the case. I have spoken a long time before his speech, was already seen on the screen as a speaker. So that was just the wish, but not the truth. [[Abg. Oellinger: Interesting, Mr Colleague!]] As always, he's not in the final position, and he just wants to... [[Abg. Oillingers: Sometimes it is also the last stand!]] Well, he wasn't given either because I've been on it for a long time, colleague. But I do not want to defend the Minister for Finance now because he has answered these questions sufficiently and informatively, I believe. I would rather the SPÖ, which has put this question here, hold the mirror. I understand your grudge, because I think it was usually so with you that you got invoices from the consultants you were busy with – “Euroteam” et cetera – that you paid, but no benefits. [[Abg. Oillinger: This is harmless in comparison!]] That's the difference. He has received benefits and paid for it. [[Abg. Oillingers: Do you already compare him with Euroteam?]] The fact that external consultants are necessary shows the SPÖ, because it has been used for the election campaign by an external advisor from the USA. And that this one could not sell the partyobmann Gusenbauer as well as the consultant the Finance Minister Grasser, probably is not at the advisor, but at the product he had to represent. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, the consultant should have given the SPÖ colleagues a Council: Don't turn around at your own door, because the dust that's being swirled up is even more clouding your weak opposition policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12669	I do not have any further comments to make on this. That is why I am closing the debate. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12687	I shall resume the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of today's agenda. The next speaker was Mrs Lentsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12708	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! After these urgents once again under the motto: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. As a member of the Court of Auditors Committee, I should like to thank you, Mr President, not only on my behalf, but also on behalf of my group, as well as your officials and, of course, your employees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We all, and especially the members of the Committee of the Regions, appreciate your work and the quality of your reports: They provide a valuable basis for our work here in the High House. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The current budget for 2003 provides for expenditure of € 24.6 million for the Court of Auditors and € 24.3 million for 2004. This saving is certainly to be represented, because just as we need to save in other areas, we must also save on the Court of Auditors. The narrow administration of the Court of Auditors is certainly a very, very great help, and I would also like to thank you for that. But the cost argument is just as secondary to the Court of Auditors as with all other control firms, because first of all, an advisor has to bring more than he costs, and second, the Court of Auditors is absolutely necessary for the functioning of our administration and the public economy. We can also draw the annual reports on how many additional revenue or less expenditure is generated by the Court of Auditors, and these are three-digit million amounts on a regular basis, i.e. a multiple of the costs incurred by the Court of Auditors. However, where we MEPs have to be careful – and I am speaking to the opposition parties in particular – is where we ourselves are tempted to use the Court of Auditors as a political centre. We do nothing good to the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, if we – as the highest of all threats! – threaten special audits with the Court of Auditors. This does not help officials who are often perceived by the checked as inquisitors. I know that the Court of Auditors does not view itself as a partner and as a driving force for the economy and for the administration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! This self-understanding, which has been developed very successfully under President Fierce, is very, very important and also necessary in the service of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12770	The next speaker is Mrs Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12791	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! First of all, a few words in the direction of Mrs Rossmann. It mentioned in its statement the “great measures” of the Federal Government in the field of adult education. Commissioner, you already know that the budget has been cut by 25 percent in this area and that the budget represents only more than 0.1 percent of the total education budget. In addition, the funding facilities in the federal states are simply closed. – So much about the “great measures” in the field of adult education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But now on my real topic, art and culture. At the beginning, I would like to present a few general thoughts on art and culture: The aim of social-democratic cultural policy is to enable all people to develop and apply their creative potential. We stand for the freedom of art and for the diversity of culture – this should actually be so for all cultural politicians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The task of a cultural politician or politician is to create framework conditions and opportunities for the artists, who allow them to develop their art freely, because this is the only way that a large spectrum of art can stand and above all exist. The aim and task of art politicians cannot be to censor art and prescribe what art has to be – there I am quite with Mrs. Brinek; unfortunately, she is not here now. Maximum admission can be the goal of cultural politicians, and I would have liked to ask Mrs. Brinek the question: Who knows what's good? – Good is not necessarily what is taken up by the majority enthusiastically and found to be good. Good is also not automatic, which is only accessible to more than one elite (mostly self-appointed). And good is not, above all, what some politicians understand about it. As a cultural city councillor in my home community, I also know very well about all these issues in the case of subsidies – but in a more modest and smaller context. I think it is the only right way to create an open climate where the different cultural directions, from tradition to contemporary critical art, have space, without party political coloring. Art also has the task and obligation to remove barriers, to build bridges, to raise awareness and to promote understanding and tolerance. However, the responsible cultural politicians must also be tolerant and open – to the artists and also to the art. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! From a cultural point of view, this double budget is not a cause for rejoicing, especially with regard to innovative, critical art. A focus in cultural policy is, according to State Secretary Morak, the promotion of the regions. Of course, from the point of view of a cultural politician from a rural region, I can only welcome this. However, I cannot welcome it – even as a regional politician – if it is arbitrary – I emphasize: arbitrary! – intervened in existing, well-accepted cultural events from bright sky and is shortened as happened at the Vienna Festival weeks. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] I wonder at this point: Why do the regions have to be played against each other? Mr State Secretary – unfortunately he is not here now – especially in this We will pay particular attention to how this regional funding will be spent, and especially where this regional funding will come from. – As a regional politician, I am already looking forward to the excessive support I have to expect next year.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12885	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. He's got the word for about 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12904	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I should like to add a few points to the comments made by my previous speaker. Mr Oellinger has here said that State Secretary Morak – who is not here now, but Dieter Brosz will certainly do this – is instrumentalizing his cultural policy. I would ask you not to pervert the facts here, because the fact is that Obergewering has been condemned, offended and made ridiculous only by the members of your party, the SPÖ, and the media, and just as a steirer I point this out to the sharpest! [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] - Please tell him. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Brosz.]] Stay with the truth, and note that the cultural landscape in the federal states has changed dramatically over the last ten to 20 years. In the regions in particular, a wide range of initiatives and events have been created. If I only take the Styria: the “styriarte” or the Styrian autumn – all very innovative and renowned contemporary art activities, and to this the federal cultural policy also has to react. Vienna has not leased quality and innovation alone. Finally, this Federal Government – and also our State Secretary – takes serious account of our federal states and their cultural policy initiatives, because this misunderstanding of the distribution of funding is not justified. I hope that this positive attitude towards the federal states in this context will continue to be maintained in the coming years. – That on cultural policy, and I also think it was necessary to put it right here. On the sport – I belong to the corresponding committee – my predecessors Peter Haubner and Elmar Lichtenegger have already said a lot of important things. Summary: I believe that these three points – health care, tourism and economic factors – are synergies that need to be brought together in the public sense and which can also be very well brought together, so that something remains. I would like to mention a rather less funny example here. In addition to such important health care, it is of course also with us – and in particular with the Sports State Secretary – to improve the framework conditions especially for the young and the young, with the children. It made me very concerned when I heard that there are no spaces of movement in the Vienna kindergartens at all. [[Call the SPÖ: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: You don't believe that yourself!]] Where does the Wiener SPÖ remain the responsibility for the health of our children? I'll ask you that! [[Abg. Silhavy: But they told you something wrong!]] We can talk about it afterwards, but: Mrs Colleague, that's fact! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On tourism, which is also an essential factor: As a steirer, I can mention the ARGEs of football camps, which are very important as an advertising factor, but also enormous revenue through re-route profitability. Although the infrastructure is not as far as we would like it to be, we would still have a lot to do for the future. The many volunteer officials, who have already been addressed today and who sacrifice their leisure time for the children, need a framework for the future to enable them to work in their spare time. I would particularly like to address the professional sports law and the sports law and its working conditions. There is a need for action here, and our Secretary of State has done a great deal here, namely at last to create a professional law which holds the public but is also transparent for the volunteer officials. It will be very crucial for the future to implement something like this. Sports club, cultural and economic events. – Mrs. Lunacek has somehow criticized it today when – and I think so – football stadiums are used not only for sports, but also for economic events or especially for cultural events. This concert by Grönemann – or Grönemeyer; that's what he's called – has certainly been class. But if you say you shouldn't have opened the locks for the cars here, because the public transport conditions are so great here in Vienna: Explain You're going to have to do this to a Klagenfurt. From Klagenfurt to Vienna, there is no subway. This is a privilege you only have here, so you have to be so fair to say that the rest of the Austrian population is forced to travel by car to such events. This is already part of it, and I believe that our sports stadiums should be used in a meaningful way in the future also for other events. There would certainly be even more need for action. I believe that from the public's point of view, this could be used much better, and it will be done, because the sports stages will not be able to be blocked by the public, cultural and economic events in the future. Nevertheless, it is important that there is an increase in the budget by €1.5 billion a year. This is an important decision, and I thank our Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel in this regard, but also the State Secretary Schweitzer. Finally, on this double budget, which includes meaningful investments and planning for future major projects in our country, I would just like to say: Double holds better! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12995	Mr. Zweytick! As I have known you for a long time, you wanted to use a different expression instead of the phrase “deunified... was only used by the members of your party...”; I am convinced of that. [[Abg. Zweytick: Yes!]] - Good. Mr Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Fact – counter-factum, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13030	Col. Zweytick just meant that there were no spaces of movement in the Vienna kindergartens. - That's wrong! True is rather: In the Wiener Kindergartenen there are certainly spaces of movement! To this end, only three examples I personally know: My own child goes to Josefstadter Straße...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13056	Mr Krainer! Unfortunately, I can't, because I have to be equally strict on everyone: Fact – counter-factum! The examples can be mentioned in a speech. [[In the case of the SPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Krainer.]] Next speaker is Mr Fleckl. The clock is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13086	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Mrs Wolfmayr – now she has just gone out – spoke today about the Styrian cultural and art promotions and mentioned them praisefully. I too am a Styrian Member, and I too am pleased with the support that flows into Styria. But I take the view, of course, that a federal government should be interested in promoting Graz as a European Capital of Culture in 2003. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You always have everything that is good!]] I find it inappropriate that in her speech she highlights something of course as a special feature. After all, Graz is the first Austrian city to become European Capital of Culture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We have let you take the lead!]] And by the way, the Austrian Federal Government has by far failed to provide its third funding and has not made its promised contribution. The aim of art policy can only be to support without questioning content or persons. But they only want to support those who are happy with you who do not hurt you, who do not make a critical statement. All the others want to exclude you from promoting your art policy and thus make it mouth-dead. [[Abg. Scheibner: Please!]] As a Styrian Member, I would like to give another example, which is equally exemplary for the art understanding of the Federal Government, namely the "diagonale", the festival for Austrian film held in Graz. The festival, which has become a decisive factor in the Austrian film landscape, which has also found international recognition. For six years, important construction work was done there for Austrian filmmakers. For six years, intendents have done what it is today or, as you have to say now, what it is. And suddenly, after months of holding up, you order, Mr. State Secretary – he is once again not here – to finally have a pretext, a new concept and change both intentions – and this after almost a three-quarters of the year of refusal of dialogue! Never change a winning team! – you should actually know about the ruling parties – would probably be the strategy of any well-running company. And what strategy does the Federal Government have? – Obviously no, or if, only one very opaque. I cannot and do not want to question the new leadership, but it seems very disappointing to me that in this case, no woman has come to the train again with the low number of intendant inside in Austria. Is that your strategy? To boycott art and women? To remove critical people in Austria from their position in order to create an adapted cultural landscape in Austria that is comfortable for you? Finally, there is suspicion in the area of having made these decisions from other than art policy considerations. The free development of art and culture belongs to the essence of democracy. And what do you do with your policy? – They ultimately create a climate of cultural hostility in this country, and we strongly reject it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13184	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Grossmann. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13202	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwälte! Mr. Volksanwalt! I would like to talk about film promotion. In recent years, Austrian filmmakers have had a number of internationally respected successes. Austria was also represented with five films at the film festival in Cannes, which we can all be proud of together. This shows that the path of a balanced film promotion, which was taken under Secretary of State Dr. Peter Wittmann, is correct and also bears fruit after his term of office. But instead of continuing to pursue this successful path, leave it in a thicker, impenetrable support policy. The film was one of the areas that Mr. Franz Morakin, the Secretary of State, had cut most of his first term of office. His own production film was particularly affected by his policy of eradicating. Throughout high-quality and often very critical productions, the garage is made. Is that political arbitrariness, political calculation? I would like to leave this question open at this point. With the creation of the TV Film Fund, to which €7.5 million will now be available, you will redirect the funding to completely new channels. Apparently you intend to give film promotion a stronger commercial orientation, because it is expected that this fund will devote itself exclusively to the production of commercial TV series productions, that is to say, by its own power of marketable facilities. As far as the organisation of the new Film Fund is concerned, it is not understandable why you have not followed the Court of Auditors' recommendation here again. The Court of Auditors, in its opinion on the novel of the Komm-Austria Act, proposed that the proposed fund for the promotion of television films should be managed by the Austrian Film Institute. According to the Court of Auditors, the film institute, after more than 20 years of activity, has a professional infrastructure, experience in project development and production as well as sound knowledge of the legal framework. From the radio and telecom regulation GmbH, which now manages the fund, it is not possible to claim that. And this opinion was also the Court of Auditors' view that you seem to have no value at all at all. So if you deliberately do not settle the headquarters where there is evidence that there is expertise and infrastructure for film making, you can only conclude that you are also projecting in the field of filmmaking what you are doing everywhere, namely tearing down proven structures to pick up new, expensive parallel structures and occupying them with you. You, ladies and gentlemen on the right side of this House, will have to pay the invoice before the public, and your Minister Bartenstein will not be able to negotiate a discount either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13256	The next speaker is Mr Steier. He's got the word for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13275	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Estimated Volksanwälte! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is every time an experience to stand at this speaker's desk. I can now deal with the reduction of lessons. The success is known to have many fathers and mothers, a failure only few responsible. Under this motto, I believe that the discussion on the reduction of gymnastic hours can be put forward. In this discussion, the participants, Mrs Gehrer's Minister of Education and State Secretary Schweitzer, have truly not made a particularly sporty figure. First, the Secretary of State for Sport has been celebrated via the media as a savior of the gymnastics, and finally, the gymnastics are still covered by the cuts in the 2003 discharge and legal clearance regulation. Now he argues that the Sports State Secretariat has at least done everything to ensure gymnastics. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This testifies to little condition, tenacity and enforcement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Current studies show a significant decrease in the physical performance of children and adolescents. The physical performance of the 11 to 14-year-olds is worrying, read there. A reduction in sports hours in school lessons is warned. When the Minister for Education talks in the Education Committee speaks of the fact that there would be a high level of gymnastics, I wonder how this impression arises from her. If the Minister of Education also plays the ball back elegantly to the schools and believes that each school is free to set its own priorities and to provide additional gymnastic hours, then I can only note that it makes it very easy – especially with regard to the discussion on the topic of the reduction of gymnastic hours within the last months and also because the Minister of Education confesses herself verbally to the importance of sports. In the APA was read – original quote –: I welcome the fact that sport has kept its place. Sport is an important part of education. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! The possibility of sufficient movement has become increasingly limited for children in our civil society. Often the possibilities or incentives are missing. Soft drinks, fast food and couch-potatoe behavior, tag computers or television instead of physical activities, lead to restricted movement processes. This has significant effects in terms of behavioural damage, overweight, concentration defects and other consequences. Children's movement should be promoted in kindergartens. This was also recognized by the Federal Government, but apart from a statement of intent in the Government Convention, there is no concrete idea. Sports State Secretary Schweitzer stated that 2.4 percent of the special sports promotion, i.e. around €900, will be used, among other things, for the development of sports structures, for innovative sports projects, for the promotion of female and female sports and also for health-enhancing activities in kindergarten and pre-school years. We will closely monitor how large the piece of cake will be for children's and folk school sports and what measures will be taken with it, because motor skills must already be trained in childhood. Those who do not already enjoy movement from a small point of view will hardly find more access later on. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Whether in the form of money or positive incentives and conditions, everything that is invested in the fitness and health of our children, pays off. That is why you are becoming active, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13317	The next speaker is Mr Christ. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13364	Of course! – Mr President, I would like to thank you for your support. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the Procuratorate! Excuse me, of course: the People's Procuratorate. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! – You don't know what's all about us when you look at that giant. [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: That was good!]] Ladies and gentlemen! How often we have heard the word “Sportbillione” in the pre-election campaign! What hopes and expectations have been aroused in the active, but especially among the many volunteer officials, and what has been left of all this? What has finally become of these major announcements? Mr State Secretary! You yourself have informed us in the Budget Committee that the Federal Government was planning to cut the budget. Fortunately, you have been able to prevent it from being further shortened. [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: That's it!]] - Yes, I confirm that, that's commendable. Despite these sounding election promises, we cannot see a significant improvement for the athletes, but rather a deterioration. The fundamental demand for the “sport billion” has primarily affected the federal sports organisation and its trade associations, that is, in concrete terms we are talking about the special federal sports funding. You too, Mr State Secretary, have said that you will use it and make it strong that they are raised. It is nice if you list and count all the national funding here, but finally we are talking about the Federal budget and not the Land budgets. It's not really much to stay! It has not been increased, there was no valorization and is therefore a real reduction. I would, of course, like to express my criticism of the special support for the sport of disabled persons, which I very much welcome. It is hoped that this support will not remain a time-limited one-time support. In my opinion, all in all, there are the smaller professional associations, which are not in the media, which have to deal with financial problems all the time, and which now only remain the hope, although many sports enthusiasts spend their time there meaningfully. Where are the Federal Government's confessions to support the confessions in its government programme, school sport and clubs? What really happens? – As part of the sport, there is an effort – Mr State Secretary; I have to support you – but the teaching takes place across: Turn hours are shortened; and it doesn't matter if this was planned or not. The fact is, it's real. I know schools – I am also able to name the school location – in which the hourly cuts have such an impact that the girls no longer bring together volleyball teams. We have schools where football students' cup games can no longer be performed, because no team can find themselves together. I know a lot of teachers who are very unhappy about this, and I know a lot of parents who are quite angry that such savings are carried out on the back and at the expense of our children and their health. I can understand. We are now pleased to have a sports state secretariat, a trained sportsman as a state secretary, but what is missing is obviously the sporty weight in negotiating funding for professional associations and associations. Perhaps a Sumo ring would be better than a long-distance runner in the budget negotiations – but you can feed up, that's not a problem. Mr State Secretary! Let us go side by side together, especially in order to raise the importance of school sports. I can offer you our support. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Party! I would remind you that justice, equal opportunities and equal treatment are a very important factor for our youth and for our ever-growing society. Unfortunately, I do not have to remind you of this only in the field of sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13420	Mr Klubobmann van der Bellen spoke on business treatment. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13438	Mr President. At 14.56 a.m., Mr Scheuch spoke on an actual correction. And this actual correction is obviously false. I think it's worth the effort to focus on this. Mr Scheuch said in reference to a speech by Mr Jarolim – I quote literally – that: "Mr Jarolim has said that I would have said that we should not give the Jews any money, but rather make it available to the miners. This statement is incorrect. I have only noticed in my interlocutory call that it is very important for me as an agricultural speaker to support the miners." On the contrary, the Stenographical Protocol in connection with a speech by Mr Posch says the following – I have to take a minute to read it, so that it is clear what I mean –: Parliamentary Posch addresses the question of whether the cultural community should be supported by the state, and says that there is an obligation for the Republic to help with the small Jewish community. “For that, I think, one must have a feeling.” – Mr Scheuch’s interlocutory call: “That must not be true!” – Posch continues: “I believe that the existence of a Jewish community in Austria is important and that a democratic country that acknowledges human rights and the European society of values must also undertake to support it.” – Interlocutory call Scheuch: “I’ll tell some Carinthian friends!” – Posch asks: “What do you mean?” Shythm: “Let’s rather support our miners!” – Posch asks: “Please?” – Intermittent call Scheuch: “We’d rather support our miners!” – Posch continues: “This is a very interesting call: Let us rather support our miners than the Jewish community in the city! – I would like this to be recorded here for the Minutes.” – Interlocutory call Scheuch: “Yes!” This is certainly clear what Mr Scheuch has done here on interlocutory calls. [[Abg. Wittauer: No, that's not clear!]] Mr Jarolim has still asked: Is that really true, I heard that we should not give the Jews money, but rather make it available to the miners? Deputies Scheuch says: This statement is incorrect. I am therefore referring to the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, because it is difficult to bear if, in an actual correction, the untruth is clearly said and therefore the untruth is said here in the House. This cannot be accepted in this way. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] I have just quoted it from Parliament's Stenographical Protocol, Mr. von der FPÖ. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not completely!]] You are free, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, to speak on this matter in order to clarify how you stand to see a colleague here in this House face an obvious untruth in his actual correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13503	Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen! I know that this is a delicate matter, so I have let you out, although I have to say that word messages for business treatment either serve to make a request or to bring about a business order. I think I know the Rules of Procedure quite well, but I have no way of taking up an actual correction that took place before 3 p.m. – not under my Bureau, but that does not matter at all – now again afterwards! This could only happen in a debate on an item on the agenda, where it can be edited. One cannot influence the correctness or non-correctness of an actual correction in case of word reports for business treatment. That's May- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I now leave it to Mr Scheibner for fairness reasons, whether he wants the floor to speak. I have to give it to him when he comes to speak. He may also be satisfied with this purely business opinion. I cannot give the floor to you, Mr Van der Bellen, now for a second time either. Mr Scheibner! Do you want to say something about business treatment under generous interpretation, as did colleagues Van der Bellen? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13537	Mr President. I agree, of course, with your assessment of this Rules of Procedure, with Mr Van der Bellen. However, I am concerned to clarify here – Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen has forgotten to say – that, in his actual correction, Parliamentary Scheuch expressly rejected the accusation that he had made anti-Semitic statements in some way. That was also the accusation made to him in public about an APA issue. It is really hard to distinguish whether one agrees to a financial contribution to an institution or whether one criticizes a population, people or religious group. This distinction has also been made by Members of Parliament, and I would like to take note of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13561	Mr Dr. Cap has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13579	Mr President. You said earlier that this was a very sensitive question. On the basis of the fact that I have listened very carefully to the quotation from the Minutes and I do not share the view of Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, I would suggest that we carry out a presidential part of it. I think that's a serious accusation. Above all, it is not possible to make any actual correction which seems to disagree with what is contained in the Minutes. Since this is a very, very delicate thing in the substance – I don't want to put it in the room now that there was an anti-Semitic basic tone here – I want to discuss this in a presidential way, because I think this is a procedure that is not acceptable here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13607	Mr Molterer, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13625	Mr President. I can imagine that we will have a discussion about this in the next presidency. However, I take note of what Mr Scheibner said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13652	Mr Cap! I assure you that this will be discussed at the next presidential meeting – if possible this week. I'm just asking for understanding. We are only too two in the Bureau, and I would therefore ask that we do not interrupt the meeting for a presidential, so now it is but we agree on a date at which this problem, as is commonplace, can be discussed. I hereby declare this round of word messages for business treatment ended. I call Mrs Katharina Pfefferim on the agenda. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13688	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer, we two have nothing in common, but we have a common attitude: We are both Burgenländer, and I agree that we are both connected to the sport and that we want the best for the athletes as well as for the clubs and associations. Unfortunately, for health reasons, I have not been able to attend the debate in the Sports Committee, but you can read a lot in the minutes. I noticed your sentence, Mr. State Secretary: “Thinking must also be done about the allocation of funds, as a inclusion of other associations into the BSO led to the ‘kitchen becoming smaller’.” You really have to think about it, because there are many associations that want to be included in the BSO, for years in the queue – and rightly, as I mean. Therefore, it might be beneficial to increase this budget. But it is important to all of us to be a link between clubs and schools. This important task must be stepped up. Perhaps an example from practice: My son is a state-certified judo trainer and was asked by the head of the children's village of Pöttsching to train the children in the children's village together with his friend, who is by the way a member of the Cobra Gendarmerie deployment command. On this occasion, however, I would also like to mention just how proficient this command of Gendarmerie is in the field of sports. This group won the World Champion's title in the near-war at the World Anti-Terror World Championship in Bonn, where 29 nations and 44 teams were at the start. – Congratulations also from this point of view from this team! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since the children of the children's village of Pöttsching, who were very lively, are trained in Jiu-Jitsu and Kickboxen, they have been shown to be quieter, more disciplined and attentive. School achievements have also improved. They are learning to deal better with each other in the Community, to take account of each other, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the most important tasks of association work in general. Your trainers become references and role models. Mr State Secretary! At this point I may ask you: One must continue to intervene in a supportive and supportive way, because this valuable work with our children and young people shape it for all her life. I know what I'm talking about, because my family has been active in club work for 30 years. Of course, it would be urgent to make more financial resources available to sport. Since the Federation may not be able to provide these funds, other solutions could be sought in the form of a broad sponsoring. I would like to mention positively the establishment of the Federal Sports School for Sailing and Surfing at the Neusiedlersee. Many children and young people are being brought closer to these two sports or presented the World Heritage Site Neusiedlersee. The football world is also in order again: 5 : 0 against Belarus. I congratulate this success of the national team and the national coach Hans Krankl. This success experience was of immense importance, and we congratulate it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can continue to wish you every good in your role, Mr State Secretary, and I hope that you will prevail with your boss in the sense of sports. A warm thanks from this point of view also to all athletes and all volunteers.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13761	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Schweitzer. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13779	Ladies and gentlemen! I shall be able to address the contributions to the debate in a very short time. To my colleague, Steier, it is precisely this Federal Government that is starting to implement these innovative projects. An example of this has been launched with the social democratic mayor of the municipality of St. Veit an der Glan in Carinthia, Mr. Mock, together with the state council responsible for sport Dörfler and the Federal Government. It is the so-called "moving kindergarten" where we develop a model so that there is a comprehensive range of movements – an incentive for the smallest children to move regularly and in a variety of ways. We will also study this scientifically, and we will work out the differences in the physical development of children in this exercise kindergarten and in a normal kindergarten in order to draw the corresponding conclusions that we then want to implement in all kindergartens in order to create more physical incentives for all children. To Mr Kristi and to other colleagues who obviously have problems with calculating, I just say that compared to the previous year, we have increased the means of sports promotion despite difficult conditions, from € 36.3 million to € 37.8 million, which is an increase of €1.5 million or – in old currency – by 20 million schilling. I would ask you to take note of this. That is also contained in the documents for this debate. Speaking of a reduction here is simple and simply wrong! There was an increase. I kindly ask you to take note of this increase. It is also true that there is not only this type of sport promotion, but we also support very generous applications for international major events, as last the application for Olympic 2010 in Salzburg. I hope we're on the 2nd. It was also awarded the prize on July 17. Performances of sporting events are also heavily supported by us – and not only that – but we also create the necessary infrastructure. This requires intensive investment. As far as investment in sport is concerned, the Federal Government is certainly extremely concerned. It's generous. I kindly ask you to take note of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13825	I do not have any further comments on this part of the budget debate. I would like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors and the members of the People's Procuratorate, who have been very brave here since 9 a.m., for their presence. Social security, generations and consumer protection Chapter 15: Social security Chapter 16: Social security Chapter 19: Family, Generations, Consumer Protection
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13865	We now reach that part of today's debate after the end of the negotiations on social security, generations and consumer protection. It covers chapters 15, 16 and 19. Mrs Heidrun Silhavy is speaking on the floor. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13889	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Chancellor! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! We are now discussing the chapter “Social Security, Social Security, Family, Generations and Consumer Protection”. I am only going to the budget chapter 15 with two sentences, because € 10 million was intended for a single payment for care payers from Stages 4 to 7. However, you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, have removed this one-time payment without taking up the eyelashes. – So much for your social attitude. You should be ashamed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Again!]] However, this money may be used to finance the so-called hardness funds, which were decided only yesterday – and that is just €10 million – by chance. The fact that these €10 million for this fund is not found anywhere in the budget chapter 16 is suspiciously true. It is therefore obvious that you are acting on the basis of the example of the accident pension tax, that you first take away a lot of money from the people concerned and then give a small part of it as a generous gesture of this federal government. – So much for your social attitude. This policy is really a shame! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] But this evidence of poverty in your black and blue social policy is unfortunately arbitrary. The state of the Federal Government is also clearly reflected in the example of this pension package. That is where – and I am very sorry that he is not present – the Vice-Cancellian head of the department seems to present only one government template accepted by the ÖVP. Then, immediately after the decision in the Council of Ministers, this Vice-Chairman in charge of the department distances himself from his own government proposal and, so to speak, goes into an internal-governmental opposition role. He is fighting his own government template because he obviously has not enforced or has too little to say in the government. His work is obviously reduced to those of an ÖVP-dependent service offer, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called negotiation outcome of the FPÖ does not really surprise this pension package. This result means that without regard to losses in all pensions, even in the case of very small incomes, you will cut down. There would be the suspension of the first pension adjustment. This costs all new pensioners, including those with very low incomes, € 15 to 18 million annually. You don't have to get into the pockets of the micro-pensionists as well! Ladies and gentlemen! This policy is cynical and this policy is contemptible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References== In the Committee's deliberations on May, the Vice-Chancellor claimed that the pension adjustment had to be further oriented towards the goal of value assurance. What you are planning for 2004 and 2005 is a single move in the case of existing pensions. [[Abg. Großruck: Wrong!]] You can truly congratulate the Member of the Liberals on this outcome! This is where you have enforced yourself “super”, even if the median pensions, i.e. pensions below €700, are not adjusted to their value. In the opinion of the Vice-Chancellor, an additional 1 per cent increase for pensioners in health insurance is also no intervention in existing pensions. So: Loss of value also in the case of pensions below 1 000 €, loss of adjustment after re-entering, pension reductions for new pensions of up to 10 percent, but higher contributions from pensioners and the non-effective receipt of compensation by single payment in 2003 and 2004. [[Abg. Großruck: Wrong!]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Read it, Wolfgang!]] And that doesn't call the liberal vice chancellor any intervention in existing pensions?! – So much about the words and deeds of the liberals. That's how far they're claping apart. That's really a shame! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These “successful” follow-up negotiations of the liberals, which will be celebrated in this way, will cost the insured community € 116 million more next year than was planned, and an additional € 228 million in 2005. These negotiations were successful, ladies and gentlemen, for one: for the Minister of Finance, but not for the people of Austria! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] But that's not a miracle either. I read in the “Kärntner Nachrichten” of 6. June: “Kärntner Liberties exercise their position – the protection of the small people”. – 6. June! Yesterday we heard until the end was negotiated to achieve improvements. What's right, ladies and gentlemen? – I think that people do not give up on this protection because it is a threat to existence for them. But perhaps these social injustices have not happened by chance. Maybe have You can't even let the bowl ÖVP pull you over the table. Perhaps this pension reduction programme is without prejudice to your basic attitude, your freedom of movement, because You know for yourself that haste and hustle and bustle would not have been necessary. The total costs for statutory pensi-insurances are also continuously reduced without these measures: in 2004 to 10.8 per cent, in 2005 and in the following years to 10.7 per cent of the gross domestic product. You know that, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! These numbers are known to you. What's behind that? Perhaps decades of conservative thinking. ==References====External links== March 1959 reads: "1910 was a quarter of the population over the age of 40, while 1951 was almost half of all Austrians over the age of 40. Austria’s population is ageing – this poses a serious threat to social security.” It also says: ‘We need a ‘market-compliant social system’...’. - 1959! So much for your future-oriented social policy! So far in social policy you go back to your ideas! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not surprised either, a free weekly says: “Social warmth” arises, as every comrade knows, through the distribution of benefits to be financed by bourgeois elites on day thieves and minors.” Ladies and gentlemen! Who are these day thieves and minors? Is that the people who have little income? Are they unemployed? Is that the sick? Are these old people? Who, then, is so cynically called “mind class ”? This is your attitude to social policy? You should be ashamed, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The former ÖVP-Klubobmann Dr. Khol, now President of this House, also took place on 27 July. September 2002 said: "Stately organised solidarity is important and not replaceable, but expensive. Privately organised solidarity is warmer and cheaper.” For whom?, I wonder. For those who can't afford it? – No, for those for sure not! There will be no heat, nor will it be cheap, but it will be expensive, and people will be in the cold. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But in the end, the Minister of Finance has put it to the point: ‘This requires a ‘cultural change’’. There will have to be less state and less care, for this everyone will have more net in the wallet.” – He was wrong! In your policy, there is less care, less warmth in this state – and less money in the wallet.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14023	The next speaker is colleague Dr. Fassl evening. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14041	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! When we made this marathon vote on the pension reform yesterday, many questions were raised. Maybe one or the other has also asked himself: What does it mean, when works councils, when personnel representatives, when workers' chamber councils, when senior union officials are on the one hand and on the other, and on the other, at the other? Was this just an expression of a fractional different assessment, as is common in democracy between government and opposition? – Probably this was an important factor. But I think, in fact, it has been a lot more, namely, the following question: Do we have a majority in all parties today who are willing to go into a new dimension in social policy? We have a majority that not only remains in the existing system, but is willing to accept new challenges in order to meet the social system of the 21st century. to create century? For me, the situation is quite different. We have a situation before us, which is not only completely different in quantitative terms than in recent decades. Yes, it is that the age pyramid de facto has turned its head. Today, the elders or the older ones are the largest group – or at least they will – and the disciples are the weakest group in society. But we also have a very different condition in the qualitative field – quite different from that in the industrial age. It's not the machine anymore. There are no more fixed working hours and defined careers. It is no longer like learning a profession, maybe changing once and then staying in the same company for decades. No, no, no, We need to change. This transformation process is certainly difficult, but I think it is worth it, because only in this way will it succeed in the performance of our social system for the 21st century. ==References====External links== This is not an easy way, but a decisive way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let us deal with the individual questions, the major issues of social policy. Let's take the pension reform! What do we want? – In the future, we want not only harmonisation of systems, but also the personal pension account. [[Abg. Silhavy: More private!]] We want to know that performance is equally distributed beyond the generations. I therefore think this is important because the personal pension account is a prerequisite for the different new CVs. Of course, it will be so in the future that you are a few years with a company and then with another company that you may spend a few years in the public service that you may be self-employed for a few years, then self-employed, then self-employed and then self-employed again. We will only have a safe pension and a safe system if the individual different systems are harmonised so that the transitions can also be performed smoothly. That is why it is important and not just for it to be large-scale or euro-based in the future. We also need major reforms in our health system. Yes, we have one of the best systems, especially in the curative field. But we have flaws, huge weaknesses in the preventive area. And we have a cost explosion due to progress in medicine. If we want medical progress to benefit everyone, we will not only have to put a focus on prevention in order not to raise great costs at all, but we will also need to review our systems. Not only will the over-investment in the basic system, as we find it in the hospital system at present, be a return, but we will have to create much more capacity in special disciplines, and therefore, where there is overcapacity, we will have to save accordingly. In family policy too, we will have to continue where we have been working in recent years, namely that we strengthen families and that we give them, especially women, freedom of choice, whether to stay at home or to practice a profession. How many years they can be at home in order to be able to devote themselves fully to child rearing, how many years they have to be in the profession, without fear of social weakening in relation to their entire incomes, about such issues will go on in the future. Above all, in their employment situation, we will have to help people, especially those working groups who have difficulty, namely the elderly, the young, the women. We will have to help people with disabilities in particular. We want a socially integrated society, and there the disability policy must be one of the priorities, not in the form that the state gives them alms, but in such a way that the state helps them to reach a living income independently through work. In doing so, the state, society, must be helpful to them so that they can lead their lives as independently, independently and in their own responsibility. ==References====External links== Not only does a rethinking require as far as the processes are concerned, but it also requires a rethinking of people in particular. We have people in front of us who are ready for self-responsibility, who are able to take on greater self-responsibility, and we must admit that to them! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If I ask myself the questions: How far are the Social Democrats in this area, for example, on the question of pension? Were they for the increase in the retirement age? If they were also for financial adjustment in the sense of a balance between generations?, then I must say: No, no, no, The only answer they give is increase in contributions. Were they, for example, in the field of health policy to go new ways? - No, quite the contrary! Not only that they block, they even go so far as to make an institution that has already been introduced into almost all or all systems worse. They are going to make up for future systems that are necessary. What's bad about self-retaining? [[Abg. Oils: This is not a new way!]] Not only in the industrial sector, in the civil servants or in the agricultural sector, there is that, no, there is also this, even in the ASVG sector. But if we only suggest that a pension insurance institution should be exempted if it is necessary to resort to a self-retain, then they already say no, defy the system and pretend to ask the poorest to check out and the poorest take the possibility of health treatment. I don't think that's just wrong, but there they scare people, and that's quite, very bad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Do you know why you're scaring people? – Because they themselves are afraid to make clear decisions, to make clear decisions in pension policy, in employment policy, in health policy. A party that does not know where it wants to go, a party that is not so strong itself, that it will carry out the discussion process in its own ranks, which cannot get through, too, to commit itself to a positive step, which will always be difficult and will ultimately not have the support of the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I note again and again, especially in the last few days, that due to the natural reactions to pension reform, some of the Social Democratic officials feel on the move with a lot of backwind. Don't overestimate that! I tell you, you will be the same as before the last National Council election. That's where you're long ahead. Then, if there is anything to criticize for the people, they will turn to the opposition. But on the other hand, people have a very fine and very distinct sense and feeling of who is serious about it and who offers them solutions for the future. To be against everything and for nothing, that does not signal any solution competence that is rightly expected by a state-bearing party, and that is particularly in the social field. You're on a completely wrong line. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to give you a positive example. They are not all like this; of course, there are differences in every party. We too are not always very easy to do. Do you think it was quite natural for us to admit, for example, in the government programme that there is a basic pension, even if it has not been paid for it? – Of course not! That's a new way. But we are willing to go new ways, and the question of who makes the right social policy in the future will decide who has the courage to develop new solutions. I can only tell you one thing: Strengthen the forces in your party that are willing to go a new way too, otherwise you will be on the loser road forever!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14132	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The clock is set to 12 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14150	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! It is very good, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that you are now present. It also affects you indirectly, I do not know in what kind of property – whether as a vice-president, whether as a party chairman – you feel addressed. I would also like to return to Mr Fassleven's comments, so as not to forget that, because I am happy to accept his request. But before that, I have to tell you: I cannot go to the agenda as easily as possible. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! They were not present, but in the debate before it was about the support of the Jewish community in Vienna. Mr Posch said that one must have a sense of this, and honourable Member Scheuch said: “That must not be true!” Mr Posch then continued: “I believe that the existence of a Jewish community in Austria is important and that a democratic country that acknowledges human rights and the European society of values must also commit itself to supporting it.” – Deputy Scheuch said: “I’ll tell some Carinthian friends!”
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14172	Mr Oellinger! I will now make the following comment before the moods heat up, so that you can hardly make a breakthrough to reason: We have done it again and again so that any current event can be mentioned briefly in one, two minutes. I'm going to handle it like that now. But I could not allow the debate to function as a matter of fact in a debate that took place in another part of the negotiations. I said: We can politically debate this question in the case of an appropriate subject for negotiation. So now, where we all have cool blood: One, two minutes of reference to something that happened, and then please on the matter. That's not a call on the matter yet, but I'm just saying: Then social policy is on the agenda! I hope this is fair and acceptable to everyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14198	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't do that any more. I would like to quote from the letter, and I have already announced that I will then talk about something else, namely the statements made by Mr Fassleven or the matter. I would just like to make it clear that I do not really want to know this remark by Mr Scheuch to be dealt with only in the presidency, for one reason: The comment has fallen here in the House, and the comment I have not yet fully quoted, which goes on, refers to the fact that honourable Member Scheuch then says – I prefer to quote the original text – that: “Let’s rather support our miners!” And then Mr Posch, who was speaking, says: “This is a very interesting call: Let us rather support our miners than the Jewish community in the city! – I want to hold this now...” – And that’s where Deputies Scheuch says again: “Yes!” And Posch continues: “... here for the protocol.” Go on: “Yes!” – Then Posch again: “This is a very interesting perspective.” And, uh, you know, she's gonna be all right. “Scheuch has said that!” – And that is, in this context only, Scheuch wants to support the miners rather than the Jewish community. There are other calls from Mr Scheuch, which I no longer quote here. I can only appeal to the Members of the Group of the Party of European Socialists – and this is also indirectly you, although I know your position on this matter, Mr Vice-Kanzler – to the Members of the Liberal and Reformist Group, but in particular to Mr Scheuch... – No, he did not withdraw his comments with the expression of regret and apologies that they can be understood anti-Semiticly, but he said that he did not mean that, although the context was clear. [[Call to the ÖVP: He already found it!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14254	Mr Oellinger, I ask you to speak on the agenda now.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14269	I only appeal to Mr Scheuch to apologise in this House before the matter gets worse. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I come to the agenda, ladies and gentlemen. I have heard with interest the statements made by Mr Fassleven. I'm missing a little bit of faith. ==References====External links== I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you would like to make a statement on this matter, and I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you would like to make a statement on this matter. What is the concept of the ÖVP? In the problem description, Mr Fassleven, yes, I give you the right. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Re-handling, for example!]] New finish? Don't grab it. I share the comments on the finalization. Many in this house and outside of the house have already told me in the 1980s and also in the nineties, when the ÖVP was still firmly of the opinion that the discharge is a fidelity premium, except for the Vorarlberg workers' chamber president, I admit, and some less other people, I admit, but I can still remember the debates here, outside of the house... Excuse me, too, for those who have said that I know the ÖAAB Members, and they will never be squeaked as fidelity. Yes, that sometime you've caught it, that this must actually be over now, thanks, but it's actually been very late. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Millimetres around Millimetres!]] The debate has already begun in the 1980s, and it would have been useful to answer a modern solution already in the 1980s. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's where the SPÖ put the Minister of Social Affairs!]] Okay, someday it came. I know that at that time not only the ÖAAB walled, but also the social-democratic trade unionists were not very pleased about a change in the Institute of Processing. But forgive me, then the actual monthly premium was 4 percent, and now it is 1.53 percent. And you still want to instrumentalize – you argue it as well – the finishing, which was a wage component at the time, as a second pillar for pension provision, and that is another pair of shoes. But be it. Of course I also see it: The finishing New also has its Merites compared to the finish. But that's not the point! We have a different working world, we have other challenges. – I share your opinion, Mr Fassleven. But what are the answers? – The answers should be others. They've described them themselves. People switch from one relationship to another: self-employed, perhaps they are sometime officials. What we are currently experiencing is an increase in the number of working conditions which are poorly or precariously socialised, in which there is no good social security in which there is no unemployment insurance. There is still a lack of adequate unemployment insurance for the new self-employed. I am now talking about the new self-employed, who are actually the unemployed, I am talking about the free workers in order to say it quite correctly, and for those there is no unemployment insurance according to what the government has planned. I'm talking about those who work in work contracts that are still badly secured, but you're right to increase job hopping. What kind of answer do we give? What kind of answer do you give? . We have tried to provide a genuinely comprehensive response to the issue of old age insurance. Yes, in the future we will need a basic guarantee of old age for all, starting from the achievement of the statutory retirement age. No, the ÖVP does not give the answer basic security for all in areas of the statutory retirement age. That would need other answers. We have discussed it, Mr Fassleven, but you have not been there during the debate, during the government negotiations. What you are planning is to convert the social assistance pension into a minimum pension. That is not enough for us. We want to make a guaranteed legal claim and not open up the possibility that perhaps, as it is possible and imaginable for any social assistance at the moment and is made possible, the boys must also pay for the pension of the elderly. You know that there is a right to social assistance. If you create a social assistance pension, you can make it possible for the boys to pay for the elderly. But that's not a modern answer, but it's a burden just that institution that raises you so high, namely the family. [[Abg. Großruck: That the son pays for the father, right?]] If the disciples in the regress have to pay the pension of the elderly, then this is not a modern answer, then we fall back to a status that we have long overcome. Through the institution of a legal, a public pension, we have overcome the conditions where the family, the young, had to care for the elderly. This is progress, we can be proud of it. I do not want to fall back into a kind of social policy, just as you also plan to convert emergency aid into social assistance, where family members will have to pay for it again when someone is in the poverty trap. [[Abg. Großruck: The son should not be allowed to care for his mother is the answer!]] These would be modern answers, Mr Fassleven, that we do not go back to family dependency, even in access to social benefits. Give a modern answer! Create You're a basic security for all of you aged! Create Furthermore, you have a single social security scheme for all! If I read through your request for the harmonisation of pension systems, I must say: There is only one thing that comes to mind: you don't even remember to replace the social security institutions, pension insurance for the self-employed or for the farmers with a general pension insurance institution for 20 to 30 years – I also heard it in the statements of Members from your ranks. Of course you want to keep it. Of course, you want to stay at the old institutes where you can maintain your black and other colors and reserves. [[Abg. Wittauer: We have said that we will work this out individually!]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is not a modern answer! Create a pension account, Mr Fassleven, according to the principle: The same contribution results in the same performance! But then you should have written it into your request, so clearly that everyone can understand it. We know from the debates that you do not want to do so, but of course you will have to be kept and taken into account in the ÖVP applications, professional and professional characteristics. Mr Mitterlehner also nods to this because he also wants to continue to maintain these thoughts of professional characteristics. But this has nothing to do with a pension account for all the same and fair benefits when the same contributions have been made, Mr Mitterlehner. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Your speech has nothing to do with solidarity!]] You obviously did not understand that, and you obviously do not think about going a modern way in social policy. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: How are you asked to join us?]] Second point, my honours. Ladies and gentlemen: the pensioner theme. Just briefly, I don't want to start the pension debate again now. I say only one thing, Mr Vice-Chancellor – this is your address, because we also know the subject from negotiations with the ÖVP –: In the future, there will be a burden on pensioners with small incomes due to the health insurance contribution increased by the accident insurance contribution, by the adjustment of value, which, even at low pensions from € 650 onwards, no longer results in the percentage, and due to the self-retaining that has not yet been fixed, but a burden from the past years, which is completely new and which the quite pensioners have also hit hard, has been forgotten...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14421	Mr Oellinger, it has not only exceeded the voluntary speaking time, but I will turn you on the last minute of the permitted ones.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14436	... the end of non-contributory co-insurance. Clearly, it has been the case for two years that pensioners also have to pay for their wives – usually women – who have not brought children to the world. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Only: In the retirement age, ladies and gentlemen, people no longer have the opportunity to earn additional income. That is why, if you put it together, it is precisely for those who have low pensions, for whom you want to work – that is why I would also be interested in an answer, Mr Vice-Chancellor or Mrs Staats- Secretary – actually unfair, to save me a stronger expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14474	Mr Dolinschek, you are the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes; maximum speaking time: 14 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14493	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Oillinger! I believe that in recent years we have proved that we are taking modern ways of social policy. We have shown that there are ways – at the time neither your political group nor the SPÖ Group – for the introduction of the childcare allowance. [[Abg. Oillinger: We have a more modern answer!]] There have been problems with handling, and I have always missed the Green Group that it would have been in favour of reforming the procedure. I did this from the first day of my entry into this House, and I was glad that there was a fellow fighter with the Chamber of Labour Fink in Vorarlberg, who was the only one in the ÖVP at that time. [[Complaints with the liberals]] I give you the right that in the ÖVP at that time, especially the people in the economy of course had fears that a settlement should also come at self-announcement, but it was the attempt to bring about a reform of settlement, and that has brought about this coalition. At the time, the social partners were unable to do so, but we succeeded. At the end of the day, the social partners have only been invited to decide the 1.53 percent and the calculation for the entire working life, which in my opinion was not quite right. I would have preferred to take the first 25 years of work and a higher percentage. Then more would have come out for the people. But, okay, I'm also happy with that, we can still reform. The childcare allowance has also been introduced, first in Carinthia, then in Germany. Today, no one is questioning this childcare allowance. Focus has been placed in the last period of government, and also in this context, namely family policy, employment policy, health policy, disability policy and youth policy. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I've already mentioned the child care allowance. It is extended to multiple births. Family policy measures are being adopted, such as an increase in family allowances. Family hospice has been introduced. It is also confirmed that it was the right way to re-establish the home travel allowances that had been removed at the time for apprentices and students who go home on the weekend which are housed in boarding schools. They are paid in this budget with €12 million. For the years 2003 and 2004, € 72 million will also be spent on the disabled. This will put in place measures for disabled people in Austria. This is a modern social policy and bears the handwriting of the Minister of Social Affairs and the Secretary of State. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Very “modern”! Congratulations!]] Of course, Mrs Silhavy. You would never have come up with these ideas. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] You will also see that the pension reform makes sense when harmonisation is implemented. I can also say that I don't like this one or the other. We have also criticized this, but we have changed it, we have improved it, and we have implemented it. It is about securing pensions for young people as well, and it is about reducing the losses for those who are about to retire, so that the deadlines are extended and the losses are reduced. This too has happened, ladies and gentlemen. The family compensation fund, Mrs Silhavy, has in the past, when your group has borne the responsibility in this House and has placed the Minister of Social Affairs and the Chancellor, has been used again and again for the foreign budget, or has often been cleared to stop budget holes. There haven't been any more of that for two years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The family compensation fund has been used in the last period for purely family policy purposes. That will also be the case in the future, and I think so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A recent youth report is now being drawn up. He will be presented to the High House in July. It covers the lives of young people. There will be a second part, which will contain prevention to support voluntary youth work. It is planned to introduce standardised voluntary assistance for young people, which is a major contribution to the fight against youth unemployment in Austria. It is also planned to implement the National Action Plan on the Implementation of Children's Rights during this period. €70 million is planned for 2003 and €75 million for 2004. They are available for the implementation of children's rights. It's working on a plan that's going to be here this year. There are four working groups working on this and dealing with the following topics: Protection against discrimination, taking into account the rights of children, the right to life and development, the development of the ability to form one's own opinion. I believe that this is a useful investment for the future of our youth, ladies and gentlemen. In 2003, I forgot to mention this in the childcare allowance, some 14,000 housewives were favoured by the new childcare allowance. There are 1,255 students receiving the childcare allowance. There are also 636 female students. Fathers are also affected, and in 2002, 644 fathers received childcare allowance, which rose to 1 100 in 2003. These are social policy measures implemented by the Federal Government. We will continue to work hard in the future to make progress for families, young people and those in need in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14573	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14591	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I would also like to make a brief comment on Mr Scheuch's statements. I will then refer to the item on the agenda. For me, the first question mark begins with these comments on the following point: Mr Posch says nothing but – please listen to me again –: “I believe that the existence of a Jewish community in Austria is important and that a democratic country that acknowledges human rights and the European society of values must also commit itself to supporting it.” – So, ladies and gentlemen, I thought that this is such a general statement that it really has and finds a broad and completely undisputed consensus in this House. At the call of Mr Scheuch, who then follows, “I’ll tell some Carinthian friends!” the second question mark begins with me, because what are these for friends? Whose friends are these? What are they doing with this information? What are they doing with this sentence? Then the call follows: “Let’s rather support our miners!” – This is what I think is the policy I have always condemned, which the Freedom Party has operated for many years and which operates again, namely to play people against each other, because no one in this House will say that he does not want to support the miners. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what you do all the time! You've done this all the time!]] That's not a question! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But if someone says... [[Abg. Scheibner: You play population groups against each other all the time! Do not make yourself up now and claim the opposite!]] That was the part of Mr Scheuch's share of playing against each other's population groups. I don't, on the contrary: I'm against it! [[Abg. Mr Partik-Pablé: Mr President! How long can she talk about this issue?]] [[Abg. Silhavy: This is unpleasant for you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Either we have a Rules of Procedure – or everyone can talk what they want!]] I think all the political groups are confessing themselves immediately, thank you, Mr President, I am going to end this as soon as possible. – to support the miners, however, it cannot be opposed to the Jewish community. [[President Dr Fischer invites the speaker to return to the agenda with a bell sign]] As a response, he said it was not anti-Semitic...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14685	Mr Kuntzl, I have given you two minutes, just like Mr Öllinger. – Please go to the agenda now!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14700	Thank you, I'll end the sentence. He said it wasn't anti-Semitic. – I can only say: Yes, perhaps, but if you appreciate this, then unfortunately you lack a basic political understanding which would be very important in this House, and I ask for an excuse. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why now if he's already put that right? Be careful with such regulations!]] No, I'm asking for an excuse. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to deal with the issue of family policy and to focus briefly on FLAF, which is, of course, the essential budgetary and financial basis for financing family benefits in Austria. You all know that at the end of this year, the family compensation fund is empty, that the federal government has to submit, and on our request in the budget committee, we have learned that the family tax compensation fund is supposed to be back on track in 2007. Until then, we do not intend to do anything but simply let things run, even as our requests have been answered. But who knows if these forecasts are true? When I look at a question reply from the end of 2001, I have doubts that the development of the family compensation fund has been diametrically assessed in the same House, which is now indicated in the documents on the budget speech of the Minister for Finance. So you can only hope that the current estimates for 2007 are more valid. However, in order to ensure family benefits in Austria beyond the two years, it would be necessary to put the family compensation fund on a new financial basis. As far as childcare benefits are concerned, many improvements are needed, far beyond what you plan. For example, it would be important to have a time-consuming flexibilisation, and it would be important to abolish the limit of merit. In my opinion, there is no longer any reason for this, because the child care allowance has now become a transfer benefit and, unlike the care allowance, the child care allowance no longer covers any income loss, i.e. no income replacement. For example, if you think that you have to collect a lot of good years for a good pension now, I have to say: Then there must be no obstacles to collecting good years, not child care money. Or think of single parents. They cannot stay at home for long and live on the childcare allowance and the family allowance, which must have the opportunity to earn it, and still urgently need the support that others have. What I think is very urgent is the improvement in the protection of termination. We will have the first cases in the coming year, which are likely to occur in the middle of it, that they will be terminated while they are receiving the childcare allowance, because it is known that the termination protection does not take as long as the time during which one may obtain childcare allowance. [[Abg. Steibl: You just have to get yourself informed! Didn't you get the workers' chamber right?]] That is an important point for improvement. Of course, it must also be pointed out in this context that no funds are provided for the important development of childcare facilities. We are in the end of the European Union, in particular as regards childcare facilities for under 3 years old. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: This is almost boring, these constant repetitions!]] There is a great need for attention, and it would also be important to provide incentives and support from the federal level for the development of childcare facilities as important for children and women as was the case before.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14828	Mrs Stadler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14852	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Newly continuing calls between SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Maybe you could continue the discussion outside. I'd like to ask you for a few minutes' attention. Thank you, Mrs Silhavy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is in the front-third, in the European comparison with the Maastricht criteria, but Austria is also in the social system and in the economic field in the European top. It is precisely this development that shows us that a state as a company must be successful in economic terms in order to maintain a proper social system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, we can now continue to discuss. I'd really ask you to let me talk. Only the one who achieves something, Mr Matznetter, is also able to be social. [[Abg. Grossruck: He doesn't know about that!]] In fact, it is painful if Members of your group claim that economic policy measures are socially unfair. The social state is called economic and social policy action, i.e. measures for people in need or sickness – yes, but that's his problem, not mine – means to put in place measures for people of high age and for people with disabilities. [[Abg. Grossruck: Matzi doesn't know!]] Social reforms mean long-term protection of the social state and not social reduction, as is repeatedly claimed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In times of great change, it is the duty of a responsible government to implement reforms in order to maintain our social system for all Austrians in the long term. Social policy does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, to go over this country with the chance of casting, as many SPÖ ministers have done, but it means setting priorities. [[Abg. Steibl: Yes, it is!]] Our Federal Government has set priorities in this budget: on the one hand, social market economy, economic growth and social justice, on the other hand, but above all strengthening our families, for which there are many measures in this budget. [[Abg. Wittauer: You have done least for the “little people ”! You've only done something for your people!]] That's where you'll find: Increased family allowance, child care allowance, care allowance from birth for disabled children, family hospice care – please, once in Europe, many countries will imitate this family hospice –, increase the multi-child allowance, school-free trips finally also for boarding school students, tax-free up to € 1,000 and much more. These are all measures that make Austria the most family-friendly country in Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Strengthening families is one of the most important measures to maintain a permanent social system in this quality. Now also a word on social assistance: I know it falls into country competence, but I do not wish to mention that social assistance in Vienna, the fight against poverty in Vienna, is the worst of all federal states. When I look at my native Tyrol, I have to say: It is the Social Democrats who for years have prevented the Social Assistance Act from being amended. There is a lack of courage to change, and there is above all a lack of courage to meet. It is too little to simply burden the municipalities to feed the social assistance pot. That's a lot too little in the long run. There's no modernity, and there's also a lack of imagination. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, a few words on the social partners: In Austria, we are all very proud of the social partners. In recent months, however, it has shown that there needs to be a very large rethinking. This concerns in particular the ÖGB functionaries here in the Hohen Haus: “Social” means “for each other”, “partner” means “to each other”. If you have the courage to change, you have the courage to prioritize, you have the courage to have one another and one another, far beyond the party boundaries! If you succeed again in working for one another and one another, you will again be proud to use the name “social partner”.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14974	I can give the floor to Mrs Mandak. I would like to have a speaking time: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14992	Mr President. High house! Social security means, on the one hand, to secure the basis of life for everyone and everyone, but social security also means – and that is why this issue belongs here, Mr President. – not to play people against each other and not to stop against each other. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Why did you then face withdrawal hunters pensions?]] We had to experience this repeatedly, and this has a lot to do with social security and social peace in Austria. Some of the reactions to Mr Scheuch's statements have been made today. I would just like to say to you: We must set very clear limits in this area at the beginning! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is an area that is quite sensitive. We do not want a population to be played against another! I have so far been pleasantly surprised at the tone of the liberals. It was the first time today that I heard such a way of discussion – and I hope, also the last time! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As a family spokesperson, of course, the precautionary question is also very central to me in family policy. The budget accompanying legislation was passed yesterday, and it is quite clear what this will mean for pension provision. There are very clear differences between our ideas and the ideas of the ÖVP in particular. There is a magazine called “family. ” – This is the body of the ÖVP family association. [[The speaker keeps a copy of the magazine “family” up to date.]] A general meeting took place the other day, and there was a key proposal, including the provision of pensions. I quote from it: "Responsible pension schemes, tax deductible, are of great importance for the future security of families with children. It would be possible to imagine models that do not put too much financial burden on young people in their family start-up phase and then provide higher contributions from a certain age.” Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! This is not our idea of pension provision! [[Abg. Steibl: It doesn't have to fit your idea, it only has to correspond to the idea of the fathers, mothers and children in our country! That's the majority!]] They are playing the pension scheme to the individual and are quite clear from a pension insurance scheme for all towards a pension provision in the responsibility of the individual, which I think is completely unclear. Then write, only from a certain age will higher pension contributions be provided. - I don't know what kind of children you have. My children cost more and more money, the older they get. It's not like a 20-year-old student is cheaper than a 3-year-old kindergarten child! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steibl and Mr Marek.]] It's clear to us: We do not want tax deductible pension models to become an indispensable part of pension provision, pension provision in Austria. Two days ago, there was a very interesting APA message, in which the Governor of the Austrian National Bank, Klaus Liebscher, is quoted. It points to the potential risks of future security, namely the future provision which is to cover the stock market with shares in order to secure pensions. The report, which is presented literally, states: “The concentration of the state support for institutionalised individual pension schemes on a product with a high proportion of domestic shares... does not involve any inconspicuous financial economic problems.” This report also states: ‘The focus of fiscal support on the provision of future benefits is, of course, appropriate to lead to a risk exposure of individual institutionalised pension schemes.’ This sounds complicated and very far away, but de facto means a very clear alarm signal: Do not choose for your pensions this kind of care, it is too risky, and the risk is too high, then at age without or with much less care than was originally planned! – That’s exactly the path you are going! You would like the pension to be gradually transferred to a private pension instead of basic care. Our path is clearly different, one of the redistribution and basic security for every and every one in Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's why we are – and you are doing nothing again, including your pension reform and all your good announcements! They have again given no right of their own to a basic pension to women who have been caring for their children for years. In this respect, you have not at all complied with your promises in the election campaign! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: Isn't that a pension insurance?]] We Greens stand for this basic insurance, for a basic insurance, which is then extended by a pension account. [[Abg. Head: Is the pension tax or pension insurance?]] If you still want to, you can cover yourself with risk-laden, additional precautionary models. However, this basic guarantee must be given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15178	The next speaker is Mr Walch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15196	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I really liked the issue of social security in my previous speaker. She said: not to play against each other, but to work together. – That would be very good in this House, because who actually made the budget much more sicker? – Those who have made it sick still regret it now, but we liberals will heal it together with the ÖVP again. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: He was good!]] There's so much pity here. – It is true that there are many unemployed people in Austria – perhaps too many – but when the SPÖ was still in the government, we had much more unemployed in the 1980s. [[Call the SPÖ:No! Shit!]] They always say it's the highest unemployment rate since World War II. – Please stay You're always with the truth! - I'll prove it to you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There have been the biggest cuts in social policy among SPÖ governments! [[Abg. Oils: reading, thinking, talking!]] I do not want to mention women's policy: First, you reduced the two-year care allowance to one year, reduced the child allowance, and much more. [[Abg. Elder: Read first!]] First, you have introduced a lot – a marriage aid and so on – and then you have abolished it again, but the debt has become more and more. – That’s how it looks, and that’s the truth! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder.]] We all need to work together and ensure that the unemployment rate is reduced. As a politician, we can only create the conditions. We cannot secure jobs, this can only be done by the economy, and we must give the economy the opportunity or support it in order to maintain jobs and create new ones. [[Abg. Oillinger: Now you say the same as the grass!]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Unfortunately not!]] It is not easy, but despite the difficult situation, despite the high debt that the old governments left us, despite the €7 billion interest payments per year you could invest a lot, especially in construction, because the construction industry is the engine of the Austrian economy. If the construction industry has a good employment situation, then the follow-up work will follow, and then all work will have. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Despite this difficult situation, many measures have been taken. You just need to look at our vice chancellor. As a social minister, he has a lot of money in hospital buildings, for example in the accident hospital in Linz, and much more investment. [[Abg. Oillingers: This is what the insured and not the Social Minister pays!]] These are investments in which the taxpayers have been used properly! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Contradict with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now on the subject of road construction: There have never been as many roads built as they have been in the past since the FPÖ was in the government. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: So few have not been built before!]] Something is moving, although we have so many debts or have to repay them. [[Abg. Binder: Thousands have been built!]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Which roads, for example?]] On the labour market situation, I can say: A great deal is being done for continuing training. But today I have constantly heard only one noise, only the complaint: There's too little there, and there's too little! To this end, I can say: Financial resources have been increased everywhere: in the area of continuing training, in the fields of education and research and in the field of apprentices. I appeal to the economic operators in Austria: Please give the young people a chance and accept them as an apprentice! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Oberhaidinger and Mr Mag. Trunk.]] If the skilled workers themselves figure out, then you have quality. I'm really looking for that! There is enough funding for the training of apprentices, and then there is no more shortage of skilled workers! – Both of them cost money. If the young people do not have a job and the father State needs to carry out further training or other education measures, it costs a lot of money. However, if they are recruited in a farm, this brings something to young people as well as to the economy. Of course, a number of changes should also be made in the apprenticeship sector or in schools in order to improve training. Workers under 25 or over 50 years of age and unemployed have the possibility of training because the AMS has the obligation to provide training opportunities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] A special joy is the introduction of part-time. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Who is funding this?]] – Please listen, my colleague! Tomorrow you don't know anything again when someone asks you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The extension of part-time was a very important moment for me. [[Abg. Oils: It's being shortened now!]] If businesses intend to release workers into the unemployed, there is the possibility of continuing employment, but only 50 or 60 percent. There Father State or government has taken a good measure. Also the blockage, which was very important to me, is now possible: One can have a full employment of half of this part-time and stay at home for the next half. – I think that’s a good solution. There's never been a change in age. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No!]] – Be quite honest once: In earlier times, there was only unemployment benefit. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] - We know how much unemployment benefit it was. It is clear that this hurts you, for you did not invent it and could not introduce it. This has made these government parties to your suffering. This is a good measure: Unemployment benefit plus 25 percent. - That's how it looks! [[Abg. Hagenhofer: This is a necessary measure!]] What makes me particularly happy: Nevertheless, there will be the first stage of tax reform next year – €14 500 tax-free annual income. The minimum wage of € 1 000 would also be included in the government paper. I would ask the social partners to put their hands on it now, so that there is no one who has a full-time job and deserves less than € 1,000. Then the pensions will also rise and not so many people will live below the poverty line. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15476	Mr Dr. Niederwieser spoke on an actual correction. I would like to draw attention to the relevant rules. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15498	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In the case of an actual correction, you have to put what is wrong. It was much faster to confirm what was right in Mr Walch's speech. [[Intervocations of outrage with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Now you still can't!]] Mr Walch said, among other things, that the money for further education has been increased. I was actually correcting: In the 2003 and 2004 budgets, we find a 25% reduction in adult education. - That's not an increase! [[Abg. Wittauer: He said “Education ”!]] – “Further education” he said. [[Abg. Wittauer: Training is not only for adults! This is not an actual correction!]] This is not an increase, but a significant reduction, Mr Walch!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15579	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. The clock is set to 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15597	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Previously, Mr Walch told us what the entry requirement in the FPÖ club is: that everything should be prayed down, which is not really the case. Mr Walch, I would be much more interested in what is now the case with the referendum on pension reform! [[Abg. Wittauer: We rejected!]] This is a subject that was very important for the liberals. If you are committed to this popular vote, otherwise the mattress we should buy for the FPÖ Group is enough because you all fall by lying down, probably to the center of the earth, and even then it does not stop! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my contribution, I would like to say something about the care money: ==References== ==References====External links== In a few weeks we celebrate the 10th anniversary of the social success story nursing money. The measures have become effective. For people in need of care, stay is guaranteed at home as long as possible, and they can live on their own. This is an essential aspect and an important measure for people with disabilities in particular. But what was there about the 2003 and 2004 budgets? What lessons and acrobatic exercises of the Minister of Social Affairs have there been for this? – We see here a next political example after the pension reform, because the main’s backward faller from the loft can certainly keep up with any circus attraction. But those more than 300,000 people in need of care in our country have not deserved this at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the beginning of the legislative period, a valorization of the care allowance was required by the Minister of Social Affairs. This Valorization then turned him off by the Minister of Finance. Then came the proposal for a one-time payment, but only for the people in the care funds four to seven. – That’s about 25 percent of 330 000 people – that’s also a serious discrimination against many people. Then the countries of the consultation mechanism started, because the countries also had to pay financial benefits and, of course, had not budgeted them. Again, it appears that no previous talk has been made about what measures are being taken; again, dilettantism appears pure again. What is now the emergency exit for the Minister of Social Affairs? – It establishes a fund, and this support fund – it is called it – is intended to help those people who care for people who are in need of care as close relatives for at least one year. The directives are not in the law, because the directives are drawn up by the Minister. That is to say, people get into a pilgrimage to this fund and have to act as a bitter. There is uncertainty because there is no legal right arising from the measures related to this support fund. The predicament on this is that there is already a support fund for people with disabilities. This is taught and used for people with disabilities when they need financial support. These €10 million are now flowing into these funds, and it is the question of how people with disabilities can be helped. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] What is also a very diletantic procedure is the resolution. The Federal Office for Social Affairs and the Disabled now has to deal with the support fund and also have to deal with the hardness funds of the pension reform, but less staff gets. Here again you can see the milkmaid bill à la Federal Government Black and Blue: fewer staff – 4 percent less, i.e. 30 plan posts – but the tasks increase into the immeasurable! I think that especially in 2003, the European Year for Disabled People, disabled people remain on the road. This is the evidence of poverty for this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15650	The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. He will speak to us for 6 minutes, and his speech will be interpreted by a sign language interpreter in the sign language. [[Abg. May. Lapp: Why only with him?]] – Even with my colleague Haidlmayr, don’t worry! Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15684	Do you hear me? – Silent voice, as always. [[Yeah.]] I recently appeared in a film on the “laging of time. ” This has also been an impressive example, I believe, of how we can slow down time in Parliament too. Time to think – perhaps about the European Year of Disabled People. It's half-time now, and a lot has already happened. Above all, the General Disability Equality Act was sent on the journey. There is now a corresponding working group of the Federal Government to draw up the law, which is an important success, as I mean. Which is also important: Self-affected, disabled people are involved, who bring their living situation there and detect discriminations that are to be further removed by law. Perhaps such a law will succeed this year, then this year would be a jubilee year! But it is better to leave time and make a proper law that is really appropriate to improve the quality of life of disabled people and to eliminate discrimination. The second issue, which is important, is the unemployment of people with disabilities, which is effectively and very effectively combated with the billions of disabled people. The number of people with disabilities has proved to be a good instrument of labour market policy, and this also shows that: The 3 000 new jobs for disabled people in the first labour market were created in 2001 and 4 000 jobs in 2002. I believe that this rising trend is very positive. It must also be seen that many of these people were not reported to the AMS as unemployed. Why? – Because they didn’t even remember that they could ever work and that the labour market needed them! Thematic care allowance: It's an open secret that a valorization would have been more important to me. Valorization is important, it has to come, and I think it will come too! I believe that Parliament will also support it and that the Federal Government will work for it. [[General condolences.]] The Telecommunications Fees Regulation is also being updated. From now on, disabled people with high incomes are no longer to be exempted from the ORF fee. I say that this is a good measure, and I stand by it or sit on it. On the one hand, it is hardly justified if, for example, a disabled Member is free of charge, even if he likes to do so, on the other hand, it is probably also a sign of the obsolete alms policy that one has said: Disabled people cannot share in life equally, let us at least let them watch a bit free of charge! – It can't be either. But I also say that disabled people should pay fees only if the ORF really changes its program: if it makes it accessible if it brings more subtitles when it brings more sign language. I call on the ORF to commit itself to these reforms in a declaration of commitment, so that these funds are really used. [[General condolences.]] In part 2 of my small sign language course for Members whom I started the last time. I was often asked how the name “prinzhorn” is born. “Prinzhorn” – that’s the resolution. [[The interpreter shall present the corresponding signs.]] [[Cheerfulness and general applause.]] There are also new vocabulary, such as “budget accompanying law” or “pension security reform”. [[The interpreter also shows these signs.]] You see, you can express everything in sign language. [[Abg. Brosz: How does the bowl go?]] Please? – ‘Cushion’. [[Abg. Brosz: We would like to see a bowl!]] [[The interpreter demonstrates the corresponding signs.]] [[Cheerfulness and general applause.]] The sign language is certainly an important language, a valuable language to be recognized as an official language. If you want to praise me, that's how it goes in sign language. [[The interpreter introduces the sign for “appropriate”.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, two important vocabularys you need to know: "Bye-bye" and "mealing"! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15796	Thank you, Mr Huainigg, for your moving speech. Next, Mrs Haidlmayr will speak. It was the first one; you can certainly remember Mr Srb too. Mrs Haidlmayr will now speak to us. Voluntary time limit: 7 minutes, and their speech will also be interpreted in the sign language. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15823	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I would like to see sign language in this House in future not only as a one-day fly and spoken twice a year for 10 or 15 minutes, but also as sign language as a language and as a matter of course the translation into sign language in this House. I think it would be a good sign, especially in the European Year of People with Disabilities, if we could introduce it in the long term! [[General condolences.]] That this is possible is not an illusion. I would just like to point out that, of course, it is in the Vienna municipal council that all municipal council meetings are interpreted in sign language. And what the Wiener Gemeinderat can afford, the parliament must also be able to afford. As far as the European Year of People with Disabilities is concerned, we all had very great hopes this year because we meant – and with “we” I always mean “we people with disabilities” – that much will change. Franz-Joseph Huainigg has already mentioned it: It's been half a year since this year. Many events are supposed to be planned, but so far very little has really happened, and I just think that's a shame. The European Union has provided for a substantial change in the interests of people with disabilities and the right to self-determination of people with disabilities. What we have done so far, namely that there is the working group in the Federal Chancellery, is a first success. But I do not want to overestimate this success because the law is not yet here in the house. Whether it is actually decided in Parliament that there is a law on equality that ascribes rights to people with disabilities, we will only see. I hope that it will succeed, and I would like you not to block all of them, but also to transport them to your countries and to say there how necessary and important disability equality is. This is simply a legitimate human right, which gives us people with disabilities in the same way as people who are not disabled, of course, take advantage of it! [[It was in favour of the Greens and SPÖs as well as of representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we had already had a disability equalisation law, it would also be natural for Parliament's speeches to be translated into sign language. For if this were not the case with an existing law, it would of course be a discrimination against deaf people, and deaf people would have a right of action in this case because they are excluded from communication. I just mentioned this example to you so you can see one: This is a very clear human rights issue – not about alms and some sort of networking, but about rights! I would like to mention one more point on the budget and social chapter, namely the care allowance. In 1993, this has already been mentioned, the care allowance has been introduced, and in 1993 it was also established that there is an annual valorization. In 1996, this valorization of SPÖ and ÖVP was eliminated from the law, and since then there has no longer been any valorization. In other words, the loss for each individual care worker and for each individual care benefit worker is now more than 25 percent. I think there is more than a need for action! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It looked as if – only in December did I know that this “as if”, namely, if Minister became the head of the social minister again, then there will be valorization, not true. I knew the basic figures of the budget in December, and there was nothing in it. So, Mr Minister, you have very soon ‘smeared’ us the valorization, and nothing has become of it! But they promised us that there would be a one-off payment. Of course, this would have been much lower, especially if it had been a disaster – that was actually a disaster – only for care providers of stages 4 to 7. On the other hand, the countries which had been invited to the review have, of course, refused, and this has been the occasion for you, Mr Minister, not to grant this one-off payment. They have said that the countries do not want to, but that is how it has not voted. The countries wanted it all to get, and everyone you didn't want to give it, so don't give it to anyone. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, you have really made a total breach of trust with disabled people! Mr Minister, I would consider this in your place and see if I can still organize money somewhere, on a legal way, of course, in order to ensure valorization. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Very humorous!]] I could call you legal ways, Minister: Disability billions – since its existence, it has never been exhausted, not even half. There would be enough money to ensure valorization. You only have to be prepared to really give the money where it belongs, in this case in the valorization. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, I would like you to listen to me, otherwise I can't interest you next time, because then you accuse me that you didn't hear it. Minister! The 10 million you have now given in this support fund are an eye-catching special. You know, the care allowance was created to give the person concerned the opportunity to organize and finance their own assistance. However, the Social Fund provides for something completely different, since the person in need of care or the person concerned receives the money, but the person in need of care. This is a demise for people with disabilities. Trust people with disabilities that they can organize and finance their assistance with their money! What you're doing is going away from self-determination and back to foreign determination. Minister! That's a step back, a huge step back! I would like to know where you have the idea of this step back, Minister. I can't imagine that, as you have said, the disabled organisations, the self-representatives of disabled people, have introduced it to you. They don't have this idea! This comes from some narrow minds in your ministry, but not from the disabled people – I would like to have made this clear here! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to draw attention to an important event: ==References== In July 2003, there is a survey on the disability equalisation law with representatives from Germany and Switzerland, organised by the Greens, where there is already a disability equalisation law. I cordially invite you all here, on 1st. To come to this survey on July. I am of the opinion that while many already have in mind the concept of “the Handicapped Equality Act” that they know him, they do not yet know what is behind this title of law or what substance of this law is supposed to have. You can get this information from our survey so that in the autumn you can agree to a really ordinary disability equalisation law easier than it would now be. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to thank you very much, the sign language interpreter, and I hope that the sign language as a language here in this House will soon become a matter of course. -Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15911	Thank you, Mrs Haidlmayr, for your contribution. Thank you also the sign language translator for her work. Thank you. [[General condolences.]] Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15939	Ladies and gentlemen! The beginning of the discussion on this budget chapter – Mr President, you were not yet the chairman – was marked by a debate on a statement and an actual correction by Mr Scheuch. In connection with this, Mrs Kunzl has accused us of playing out groups of people against each other and has said that they reject it. I would like to say to you, Mrs Kunzl: In the last few days, you have constantly pursued the playing out of groups, from group interests, from subject-matter issues, to negative perfection, Mrs Kunzl, and against us You're blaming me, even though we didn't make a play at all. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Completely inappropriate!]] I would also like to say one thing to you: I believe that it must be allowed in a democracy that someone has a different opinion or a differentiated opinion on a request for a subsidy – no matter who is brought in. That is what I claim for myself and for all of us sitting here in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15977	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I will manage it the way President Fischer does. I have seen the debate by Mr Oellinger on the television screen and would like to say to you: You still have half a minute, and then the call comes to mind.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15993	You could have saved this teaching, Mr President. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] I would now like to say something about the transmission by a sign interpreter: I think it would be nice if these sign interpreters would act if the television broadcast was made, but not here for us who do not understand the sign language with the exception of some. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Signed spoke interpreter!]] Mr President. I can pass on this suggestion to you. [[It is a pleasure for the liberals as well as for representatives of the ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I now turn to the budget chapter of Social Affairs: Despite the savings rate that the government had to take – we know the causes, we know why it was necessary – it has succeeded in maintaining important approaches to this budget that concerns the disabled not only, but also to extend it. One example is the promotion of projects. In particular, the Minister for Social Affairs has meant that in the year of disability there will be more interest in carrying out projects. This budget approach has been increased. There will continue to be the number of people with disabilities. This gives decisive impetus to the employment of disabled people, in particular young people, but also older people who may be in danger of losing their jobs because of their health status. How successfully the disability billions have been used shows that 17 400 cases were supported in 2002, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Haidlmayr, please shake You don't recognize the head, but you also recognize the positive! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If, like Mrs Lapp, you criticise the fact that the Government has remained guilty of the valorization of the care allowance, then I can tell you the following: I too am terribly sorry, but it must also be acknowledged that Minister was the first minister in a long series of social ministers who had made the theme of valorization of the care allowance, which at least considered it. The fact that it did not go out then is not our fault, which we put one of the government groups, but it is due to the fact that social democracy has left behind a very high debt mountain, which you know very well. Mrs Lapp, it is not a matter of discrimination if the care allowance is not valorised. It is also not a demise if the care money is not valorised, Mrs Haidlmayr. I think you have to take note of that. I am convinced that, if money is left somewhere, the Minister of Social Affairs will be the first to attack the valorization of the care allowance. I'm a hundred percent convinced of that. [[Abg. Mandak: He promised that a long time ago!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I just told you: He promised, but it could not be carried out, for well-known reasons. [[Abg. Oellinger: Because you need it for interceptors!]] Look, now you're playing against each other again. If we say that other expenses appear more important, then we are the evil ones. But They always want to stand there as those who always want the good, Mr Oellinger. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call:Treatmen are not people]] I would like to refer to the important chapter on disability policy. Today, the year of disability – which has already been tailor-made several times – has been the year of people with disabilities – it has once been called the year of disability – and I believe that a great deal has really happened in the approach between disabled and non-disabled people. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: The Year of Disabled People!]] In contrast to Mrs Haidlmayr, I also like those actions which the Ministry of Social Affairs has launched, namely the award of a prize for communities, for example, which are responsible for disabled events, which ensure that there are access to people with disabilities. I also like the fact that, for example, “the disabled Oscar” is awarded to businesses that are particularly disabled. We know that in particular there are disabilities – either consciously or unconsciously – in the field of leisure, hospitality or cultural events. I really expect something from these competitions, namely a boost in the environment-friendly disabled people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, it is clear to all of us that dealing with disability problems costs money, but there are also things that cost no or little money or no money at all, and this includes the Disability Equality Act. I am very grateful to the Minister for Social Affairs for the fact that he has now set up a working group that will once tackle disability equality. It has been said for a very long time. I believe that we should all now cooperate without reservation and see that we are doing something in the situation of disability and that, at the end of the year of disabled people, we are really creating a law of equal treatment for the disabled, with which we can all live and which brings many benefits to the disabled.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16120	The next item is the speech by Mr Dobnigg. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16139	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Until just before yesterday's votes, ÖVP and FPÖ members were dogged about the pension reform, and unfortunately there have been unfair, unjust and unjustified pension cuts. Although the topic of pension reform concerns all occupational and age groups, this ÖVP/FPÖ government has excluded youth and seniority representatives from the discussions and round tables, although the Austrian Senior Education Council enjoys social partners' status as the legal representative of older people. Then, in the plenary room, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, the Federal Minister, claims that all representatives of the pensioners would have agreed to the increase of 0.5 percent of the health insurance contribution. This statement by Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat is the purest untruth and I have to point out the hardest, because it is true that the chairman of the Pensionist Association Karl Blecha has always and everywhere spoken against these unjust and unsocial increases. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Is this the one who gets 180 000 S pension!]] Anyone who knows our Charly Blecha knows that he accepts every day the concerns and problems of our approximately 2 million Austrian pensioners and that he is a fighter for this group. It is sad that the government bank is spreading here out of untruths, and I agree for the first time with Mr Walch's opinion, who said: Please stick to the truth! Perhaps the chairman of the ÖVP-Seniorenbund, Stefan Knafl, or the senior spokesperson of the ÖVP, colleague Turkovic-Wendl – she is now in the hall – has expressed her voice in the silent chamber, in the public or here in the plenary you could not hear anything like it from both. Yesterday, however, Commissioner Turkovic-Wendl, like the self-representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ, you agreed to all of these burdens. The people you have to represent have very disappointed you. But with this you have shown – and these people will remember – how easily you deal with their fates. Because in the last two days of ÖVP and FPÖ's hard-term compensation funds have been sold as a success, I want to make it clear that you are degrading people who have worked hard and hard for a lifetime. In addition, you fool people or make them false hopes, because in Austria, unfortunately, about one million people have a pension that is less than 1000 €. If the total amount of € 44 million to be allocated to potential claimants in the period 2004 to 2006 is now charged to the eligible persons, each person concerned will receive the “sudden amount” – under quotations – of € 1 per month. This is embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and FPÖ. If If you still sell this as a success, I would like to quote Mr Walch, who said: Stay, please, with the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In contrast to ÖVP and FPÖ, social democrats and social democrats are concerned with decent, fair and fair pensions. On yesterday's statements by some ÖVP and FPÖ delegates, in which a "weekly position" was spoken of, a sentence also states: Yes, we can and will be set, only: If a soft one is misplaced, the disaster may come with tragic consequences. I claim: Unfortunately, this pension reduction reform has been misplaced, and the sufferers will be the workers, our youth and the older generation. I would like to say just as correctly at the end of the day another important point – there were still many points to be clarified and put right: They claim from ÖVP and FPÖ that there is no intervention in existing pensions. This is also false, as a 1000-€-pension is reduced by 817 € in the years 2002 to 2004 by a single payment and fixed amount scheme – 11 250 S – per year. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, you won the votes yesterday, but you lost the confidence of the majority of Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16187	Now comes Mr. Vice-Chanceller Federal Minister Mag. It's the main word. His speaking time is 20 minutes. If he speaks longer, then the speaking time of his club is reduced. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16206	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to start with the comments made by my colleague from the Socialist Group. Mr Dobnigg, you should not forget that the €10 million – rising in the next few years – are very likely to be a success of the representatives of the Free and Austrian People's Party, because from your side there was no request for discharge for the people with lower incomes. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Oja!]] Retrospective requests and other requests cannot give people confidence. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has transmitted to me Mr Gusenbauer the pension model of social democracy. If I look at the chapter fair pension reform for women and family benefits, I clearly and clearly note that according to your model those who have no income receive the compensation allowance. To do this, I have to say: This is much worse than what the Federal Government has adopted, because we are at least going to the family allowance rate and do it year after year. Secondly, you have noted in your model that women continue to get their income stabilised during the time of karenz. That means: If a woman who is part-time employed is under the compensation rate before the child's break, she will remain poor when she is poor in the time of care. But that woman, who is the highest wage earner, will have the advantage of becoming the highest wage earner. I would therefore ask you, in your model, to correct the fact that you have at least the compensation allowance rate. Then those women who are part-time employed and whose income is under the compensatory allowance rate will no longer be disadvantaged in your system. Perhaps you could correct this in this form, after it does not have legislative power, but rather serves as an information brochure for your followers and for the Austrian population, because with the word “at least” you would make it clearer than it is now in your text – if you do not have such intentions as you can read out. Ladies and gentlemen! If one could hear in the discussion that Mr Gusenbauer can imagine up to 10 percent of the solidarity levy for pensioners with higher incomes, which are above the maximum limits in the ASVG area, and if one considers what was heard in the media by Karl Blecha, namely that the next pension robbery would be planned due to the adjustment in 2003 and 2004, as he formulated it, then I must say: This is unfair because what the Federal Government has decided is clearly below the 10 percent you have formulated. This is about 8 per cent of the highest income, and at 30 500 s – which is the currently highest ASVG-pension – it is still expected in Schilling to be a solidarity contribution of not quite 2.8 per cent over both years. If we compare the projects of social democracy with the projects of this federal government, we can say that our actions, which we have put in the interests of the Austrian population, are significantly milder than the 10 percent requirement of Mr Gusenbauer. This has to be clarified here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I admit that I too see it as a lack that the care money could not be valorized. But I have committed myself to the projects which are undisputed within the Federal Government, namely to bring about sustainable legislative changes in this area and not to make one-off actions which must be taken back at the end of the legislative period. I am very brave because I have been able to reserve a lot for the future in this area, and I can say that the valorization of the care allowance will come with certainty in this legislative period. In addition, measures will be taken directly to assist those people who care for people with disabilities. I can remind you all of the broadcast of the ORF “Help TV special” where members of disabled people described their fate, that is, for five, six or seven years no leisure time, no vacation, no big worries in the sick. That is why I consider the €10 million I have been able to reserve for this group to be a success in the year of the disabled and to help a group that supports 80 percent of disabled people in that state. I do not see that those federal states, who are currently in a way that is not understood by me, when they come to hospital care, withdraw the care allowance – in some federal states such as Salzburg for four or five days, in other federal states for quite a longer time – do not at last diverge into the position of the federal government, that care money is a grant for care and can only be required by the farms in homes for as long as they are maintained in homes, but then, when they are transferred to hospitals, from the day they come to the hospital, they cannot be kept. I am happy to discuss this with the national social partners in order to finally end these conditions, which are not in conformity with the law, at the expense of the care providers, and then discuss a joint increase in the care allowance with the countries in accordance with the law. I should also like to point out that today a meeting of my officials with the representatives of the public prosecutors has taken place in order to finally bring the unfortunate problem to a solution which I have also put in place for the countries by filing people with disabilities for two to three months in an apparent professional activity and then sending them to the infirmary, in order to get a pension for those people who would actually have been insured from the welfare funds of the countries for a lifetime. What Mr Maier rightly related on the part of the Socialist Group is indeed a problem which, by a decision of the Administrative Court of Justice, now brings hardness in the resolution of this system to the Federation, which is due to the fact that the local authorities have no concern at the back of their financial disputes, this situation and this wrong in the legal field. I think it is high time for the local authorities – Eleonore Hostasch has opened the way with the Arrow Study – to achieve this balance between the countries and the federal government in order not to raise financial disputes between the local authorities at the expense and on the back of the disabled. They all know that a new financial compensation is to be negotiated in 2004 and I hope that, on the basis of the good statements made by the Public Prosecutor's Office, these painful problems to the detriment of disabled people can finally be ended and that the reason for all those who have the financial resources, i.e. both in the federal and in the countries, keeps their return. However, I should also like to point out that last year we did a good deal of assistance to disabled people with €10 million of emergency aid in connection with floods, undisputed by all the disabled organisations. I should also like to point out that what I advocated in the 2002 structural package alone for the years 2002 and 2003, namely for the health and wellness sector in Austria, finally providing access with up to €50 000 for disabled persons, not only facilitates the disabled and the elderly in that state, but also has brought about a satisfactory construction effect in the last winter season, and I therefore believe that the extension of this initiative from 2002 on the full budget year 2003/2004 is a success. I also note that we were able to achieve a significant increase in the compensation of war prisoners, from € 7 million to € 25 million under the Federal Care Money Act, which was able to fully negotiate the demographic development. For the support funds of people with disabilities, there is not quite €26 million more, which is an increase of 20 percent in this area. It was often the case that this fund, because it has been flexibly managed by my officials and by me, had already been exploited in July or August, because there are so many cases in this area. With this increase, we hope to be able to provide even support for people with disabilities throughout the year, not just until September, October, and then, for example, in the case of a car purchase or similar things to January, February of next year. I also think that we have done very good with the increase in projects in the year of the disabled and with an increase in the amounts in the Vaccination Act at the negotiating table. Whoever has seen Mr Huainigg here before, I would like to tell him that he and my wife are known to me as a former neighbor in Spittal on the Drau in his development of youth and schooling. This is an understandable example of a person with vaccine damage. That is why I believe, also with regard to bioterrorism and possibly with the need for vaccination, that the higher damage rates are necessary and justified. This provision and these provisions of my house do not concern the care money, but I think one must also think forward-looking about situations that can give us the world situation. Ladies and gentlemen! I regret that you don't usually see what you're doing, but always what you can't do. I'm going to have to live as a responsible politician. I too can still imagine more, even better and better, especially in the area of care for disabled people. But you will rightfully give me that the outcome of the negotiations of my budget chapter, if you look at it carefully, at a time when the state has attached its economy to the flags in important areas, and which has been well negotiated and failed for good and comprehensible reason. If we allow the pension reform and the debate on this to happen again, then we can see that the increase in the compensation rate for families has two effects: firstly, to significantly increase the amount for families, and secondly, to bring about an increase of 10 per cent for women who are converted from the “compensation allowance rate” to the “compensation allowance rate for families”, which, although not in the percentages of each year, but in current amounts. Today it was quoted from the “Kurier”: 1 € per pensioner with a pension below 1 000 €. To this end, I can tell you: This is a sign of the fact that the cappings reached by the Federal Government and the representatives of the two government parties, even after the calculations by the experts of the Chamber of Workers, the Trade Unions Association, the Federal Chamber of Commerce, the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture and my home, mean an average deterioration of only 3 per cent and a maximum of 8 per cent over the next three years, with 10 per cent as a maximum. I can tell you that even in the so-called hackler rule for women who are 57, 58 or 59 years old and who use the hackler rule, we have even achieved an improvement of 3 per cent and more compared to the existing legal situation; that by increasing the reference age for calculating disability pensions from 56 to 60 years, I can fully compensate for the increase from 2 per cent to 1.78 per cent, and also for people who suffer from later life, between 56 and 60 years of age, an invalidity with subsequent injury and receive a disability pension, even slightly improved. I do not want to let all of this fall under the table, although these are certainly not large sums. All of this is the expression of our efforts towards those people whom we have considered to be important and protective groups in our discussion. I would ask you not to forget all of this in the debate on pension reform and not to let it fall under the table. I should also like to point out the argument with the pensioners. The tax-free limit is 10 500 S today and 14 000 S will be in the future. We will therefore spare all those pensioners who fall into this group – and that is almost 850 000 of the 1.7 million pensioners from the ASVG sector – all tax benefits. That is more than 200 000 pensioners in order not to be misunderstood. I repeat: 200 000 pensioners more. If you look at the whole system, you can see that the lower pensions receive the full rate of inflation, and not, as before, only net adjustments: in this year, 0.5 percent, compensation supplementors 1.6 percent, but the lower pensions receive the full amount of adjustment as well as the compensation supplementors, at least up to the maximum limit of the ASVG, the value of the net adjustment. In addition, there are also the solidarity contributions required by the Social Democrats, although not at a 10-percent level, but at an altitude that is noticeable. Therefore, it cannot be said that the Federal Government has not responded to the suggestions of the review procedure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that it is important to analyse exactly how many people get less than € 1,000. How many of these are really those who have already addressed Mr Dobnigg, people who have worked hard and hard for a lifetime? For me – and I say so immediately – the limit for “a lifetime” is heavy and hard worker at 30 years of contribution. For a person who has usually worked for 45 years in the statutory retirement age, 30 years of full work and about 12 years of insurance are required to obtain a typical career of an Austrian construction worker or an auxiliary worker. If you add three to four months, so to speak, to the rest of the winter, you can see that this is exactly those people who are fully compensated with the help of these € 10 million. Others who are below have worked either for 5, 10 or 15 years, for example 6, 10 or 15 years in Austria, and then in Germany, Switzerland or other European countries – and therefore they have double pensions. These are, as I mean – if you calculate the double pensions of €2,000 or €3,000 together – even those 3 or 4 percent are reasonable. On the other hand, they are not reasonable for those who have single pensions and who also do not come into the protection of the compensation allowance rate for individual beneficiaries. I therefore believe that we do not need to talk about the fact that, in fact, the beneficiaries of a compensation allowance are not the real poor in our state, but those who are just above that, for example, those who have no exemption from the ORF fee, no exemption from the prescription fee and no exemption in respect of travel costs. As a social politician, it is therefore important for me to cover this framework, similar to the one that I have succeeded as a health minister in the field of chronic health insurance, with about 30 percent more, so that the problem of interfaces is not a social hardship. Ladies and gentlemen! They are all invited to cooperate in the harmonisation process, in order to find more socially satisfactory solutions than they do today, just between the compensatory allowance rate and the full effectiveness of the possibility to benefit from the compensatory allowance rate. We have a lot of summer and autumn work in front of us in this regard, a work we naturally like to do. I am also very proud that the social partners have assured me – I can expressly thank Mr Vergestnich for – to want to be fully involved. Although President Vergestnich cannot come personally to the discussion next Monday, I understand that he would like to take part in the funeral of the secretary of the Styrian Trade Union Confederation, who is his personal friend. In any event, President Verzetznich has indicated that the Austrian Trade Union Confederation is ready to cooperate in the preparation of a pension model for heavy workers throughout the summer, so that such a one can enter into force at the earliest possible time. I come from the district of Spittal on the Drau, one of Austria’s largest building districts, for example with the company STRABAG, which has 56 000 employees and there its headquarters. So I know this problem very well. In any case, I will try to solve these problems, and I am grateful for the fact that the social partners are ready for a common solution. However, I would like to add that for 50 years the concerns of these people have not been given a solution in the Second Republic. I will therefore be very pleased if we succeed in finally resolving this by 2004. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The fact that it has also succeeded in achieving significant improvements in the budget both for families and for consumer protection is only mentioned on the margins. Ladies and gentlemen! My speaking time is exhausted, I do not want to keep you here in your armchairs, so to speak, but I am sure that Mrs Haubner will explain in detail all the benefits of the 2003 and 2004 budgets for these areas in her due time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16304	Mr Broukal spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the Rules of Procedure, Mr Deputies. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16326	Mr Vice-Chancellor, I do not want to disturb the peaceful mood in any way, but I think I know what I am saying when I say that it is not the case that the SPÖ-pension model has provided that women whose active income was under the compensatory allowance rate should only be counted on. Our proposal – I am quite sure to know him well – was: The compensation rate plus the amount of the child's allowance. That's just so that this false impression doesn't get stuck with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16364	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Time of speech: 4 minutes if desired. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16382	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, every parliamentarian is of its origin. Of course, belief in the world, ideology and social culture are something that everyone brings, but I still think that a parliamentarian has more to look at the common good and more at the state than at his own ideology. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If I listen to this debate, if I consider the first contribution to the debate, I must say: I'm upset! I am dismayed at how the social spokesperson of the alleged socially competent party SPÖ goes out of here and on the matter itself says absolutely nothing – but uses the following words: Shame!, shame, cynical, contempt, robbery, threat of existence, injustice, pension reduction program, excavators, cold, poverty certificate and so on! – Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a speech culture! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Not enough with it, I have today...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16425	Mrs Steibl! It is not allowed to call in plenary!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16457	... at 12.30 p.m., receive a notice of the following contents – perhaps others have also received such a letter –: To Mr Donabauer: You're the biggest a social pig in Austria! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I cannot even pronounce the next word in this letter, which forbids my culture, my good childhood and education. Then I called this man and asked: Why are you so excited? – And this man then told me we were unsocial, bad – and much more. – On that I: Who's telling you all that? – Now this man’s literal quote: My works councils in Linz say: If we don't touch ourselves – this man is 50 years old – then we won't have a pension, because the bowl party and the liberals will take everything away from us! This man was angry, excited – and I understand now. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't do that. Your commitment, you can't do that. Your policy is that you hate and fanatize people completely one-dimensional! – This man was then even grateful for the conversation I had with him for about half an hour, and then he said: Why don't you talk to me openly and honestly?- Oh, my God! . I told him that we must take action very well so that we can also secure pensions for the future – and that is what it is all about. I beg you, I'll invite you: Stop this one-sided propaganda! [[Abg. Oellinger: Please, my colleague, calm down!]] Finally, stop with these insults, with this ban! Finally, start to cooperate in the matter, as Mr Ollinger does. If I look at his motion for a resolution from yesterday, I have to say: There were some things that you can speak about, Ollinger. You're doing better than the SPÖ. [[Abg. Forbidden: “Format”!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Prammer holds an article of the magazine “FORMAT” with the title: “Austrians have the smallest pension. ”]] [[The speaker shall hold a full-page listing of the ÖGB from the “Kronen Zeitung” in which the list of names of Members is reflected in their voting behaviour in the decision on the pension reform.]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much for this election advertising, which you are giving me, but I would like to ask myself whether this really is what your trade union members really want. [[Call the SPÖ: ‘FORMAT’!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I wonder if these view their contributions as useful here. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] I acknowledge that I am on the left side of this listing, and I am with those who have courage to do things – and not on the side of those who still say the pleasant untruth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I mean, it's high time we put this social discussion in the right lot, we're talking about what it's all about, and we're telling people where we're in the truth. In our country, social expenditure accounts for about 29 percent of gross domestic product, a value for which no one needs to be ashamed – and not even this federal government! You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, have the duty to see your task exactly in this direction and to contribute here for a reasonable, good development in our country: for the benefit of all citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16563	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Weinzinger. A speaking time of 7 minutes will be set as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16582	Mr President. High house! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Let me also make a brief preliminary remark on what has already provided emotions here today. I do not hide that it gives me a certain emotion to stand here and to know that it is possible to make an actual correction in this House, under the title: “It is unfair that...” is only quite rightly said again, which is proven to be incorrect, and that the Bureau and the Rules of Procedure obviously have no way of acting against it. If we talk about social security, I certainly do not want to contribute to playing a population against another. I believe that we have very special responsibility – in view of the history of Austria in the last century – and especially members of the Jewish cultural community do not play against other groups, and therefore appeal to you, Mr Scheuch, to apologise. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If we talk about poverty under this item on the agenda, I must say that in general I think it is a shame that so many people live on the poverty line and below in such a rich country as Austria and that many women, many miners and many other groups of people belong to it. However, I do not believe that this poverty can be taken as an occasion to speak against the financing and against the prevention of the threat of poverty of the cultus community, and I therefore ask you, Mr Scheuch, to apologize. [[Abg. Wittauer: Again!]] When we talk about generations, I believe that, especially in Austria, we have to deal very closely with previous generations, with our responsibility for history and our responsibility for the reprocessing of this history in today's generation and with the accountability for how we have dealt with it, with other and coming generations, and therefore do not want to have sloppy, misunderstandings or worse, and I therefore ask you, Mr Scheuch, to apologize for your statement. In the area of social security, this government sometimes assumes a strange understanding. Social security is obviously something which the government essentially grants as alms and cannot be regarded as a right to life assurance in a developed society. How else could we explain that in Austria more and more people are slipping below the poverty line, yes, that even more work is not protected from poverty? Mr. Vice-Chancellor – ohps, he's gone! The Social Report, which has been drawn up in your home, notes that we now have 57 000 people in Austria – in 2002 – which, although they pursue full employment, falls below the poverty line. With their family members, there are 178 000 people who can be said: Even work, even a lot of work does not protect against poverty! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And what does the government do in such a situation? – It decides to abolish the emergency aid, which has so far been a legal claim. A legal claim which grants those who are in unemployment a bridge to a new job which, hopefully, can soon be found, emergency aid, is to be abolished and transferred to social assistance. But there is a substantial difference, structurally: Social assistance is something that needs to be requested – that is to say, the biting and the act of grace, the giving of alms through the state – and – the tricks in detail, and the detail is very large in this case – social assistance is a matter of the countries and communities, it is granted to varying degrees across Austria, and in any case will no longer be available for social assistance in the communities and countries in the next few years. That is to say, the federal government discharges the task and financial obligation to provide emergency aid, and transmits it to the equally impoverished countries and communities that do not intend to increase social assistance in such a substantial way that it could only cope financially with poverty. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If I still read that the minimum pension, which is supposed to come in accordance with your motion for a resolution, will also be transferred to countries and their social assistance, I can already imagine what this means for the minimum pension. It has been postponed on the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day and will certainly not be able to discuss it together with a harmonisation of the pension system, which I do not think I have eaten for a long time, if I look at it that way. I would like to make another point about the State Secretary, who is still present, who is responsible for a sub-area and who, in particular, wants to make himself strong for the advice of men in Austria. Mrs Haubner, Secretary of State! I would ask you to be at least as urgent as to whether the resources used to do so do not go to the expense of other advisory bodies for women, and perhaps to consider whether it is really the responsibility of the state – if I take away the sparse information you are planning – to offer de facto a partnership advice or a separation advice for men, and if it would not be appropriate for emancipating men's advice to deal with completely different, more important and urgent tasks. I'd like to make an appeal. While Vice-Chancellor's head is no longer women's ministers, social security, generations and things related to it – especially poverty – cannot be separated from a gender-specific view. I should like to quote the EU, which, in a recommendation to Austria, in particular, gives this venue the opportunity to draw up appropriate targets for a strategy to eliminate the causes of the gender pay gap and the provision of childcare services. I would like to draw your heart to these tasks, Mrs Haubner, and to the vice-president, who is absent.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16648	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. Preferred speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16667	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! We are now talking about the subject of social security and generations. This also affects the context in the core – a connection that has simply been too short in the policy of the past decades, whether because you could not recognize it from the SPÖ or because you did not want to recognize it. The social state, as we currently have it and as we want to preserve it, basically stands and falls by the payment procedure – a method of payment, which is extremely crisis-proof – I recognise that any other method of old age insurance can only be compensatory and only additional – but is extremely demographic dependent. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: The capital too!]] Also, this is also demography dependent, but the charging process is pure. So if I have a social state – and this not only concerns pension insurance – we have been talking about it here in Parliament for two days and many weeks before, but also about health care – then I have to be very careful that the demographic foundations do not swim away from me. That is, I can't be blind to that eye that's set on demography – and that's what you've been doing for decades. That is also something that has happened in our case in contrast to other countries. For example, at the beginning of May, France presented a new family policy offensive with the stated objective of increasing birth rate. – This is something that every state that has to do with pragmatism must be a social state. In fact, the opposite happened with us. You've seen it coming for a long time. One has also responded by saying: Fine, there are now fewer children, in the family load balance we have a lot left! – Thus, for example, in 1978, the first time, in 1981 for the second time in favour of pension insurance, is the reduction of service providers' contributions to the family compensation fund. – This is roughly the opposite of what one can call sustainable policy. By reaping an advantage from a decline, from a bad development, one creates even worse conditions, so that such things can continue to happen. Otherwise, the principle always applies: Now there's more money, now we can spend more! – You didn't do that, but that should have been a warning sign. You from the SPÖ, which you constantly attach to the flags of social competence, and you do not respect the basic principles, but what is necessary so that you can exercise them. It's on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on; it's clear: The social state with its payment procedure is simply and simply raised the principle of the family contract from the family to the entire society. Everyone knows that three children are easier to get their old parents than a single child, and you just didn't and didn't take that into account. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have not even responded to the SPÖ, knowing that it would be in 20, 30 years, as it is now, let alone that you have tried to reverse this development, as other states do. And this has been a major failure, even with regard to the policies you want to make, to preserve the social state; if it is not for you to have in mind the development of the population. But it was also wrong for that. You, who are so pleased to put the argument of the social cold, have also been indifferent if, in the course of your policy, entire groups of people have been excluded. Everyone knows it's in every report, and it's also a bit of ambiguity, it's quite clear that it's like this: Child-rich families are particularly affected by poverty! – Quite clearly, with every child the commitment increases. Every study says: The largest poverty factor in Austria is the number of children in a family. That was completely indifferent to you. You were also indifferent to the poverty of women who met, in particular, those women who have been able to cope with child rearing for a period of not enough years out of work. – And that’s something that makes this government very different! To have made the purely rational decision that the social state, he should be preserved, must finally take into account its demographic dependence, that is, that in all systems the demographic factor must also be installed, that is a step in the right direction. I admit, I'd like the big throw, but I'm glad if at least steps go in the right direction. Mrs Haubner, you have made a great effort – and you have also had success – to thank you very much, that there are steps in this direction, that for the first time under the black and blue government of Schüssel I, the pensionable allowance for child rearing has been made and that it is ensured that this is now expanded. It will also be so that part-time will be taken into account. I can announce here, Mrs State Secretary, that, as it stands in the harmonisation paper, I will support you with all my powers so that you can prevail when it comes to harmonizing the contribution basis of child rearing times in such a way that it reaches the level of the present fee.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16711	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16730	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! I would like to start by saying extracts from a speech by a man I very much appreciate, because he has a very great social competence. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: The Federal Chancellor!]] - No, that's an error, I'll tell you who I'm quoting, you'll be surprised. “The privatisations of recent years have by no means brought benefits everywhere. Many people today feel it this way: Services – e.g. postal or railway – have become worse, people are more dissatisfied, and in addition tens of thousands of jobs have been lost.” The speaker then goes on to address situations in other countries where privatisation is further advanced. I quote further literally: “In Austria we no longer live on an island of the Blessed. The times have passed when we have been admired internationally for the functioning social partnership. More than 300 000 unemployed in winter and almost 250 000 in the annual average are still somewhat less than the EU average. But we know that Austria has lost its top place and since 1999 has had to take a nearly doubling.” And on top of that: “What are our recipes for more justice? We are still the 9th richest country in the world (measured by per capita income) – it should be possible that no one lives in real poverty. However, caritas, deaconia and other social organizations are experiencing a rapid increase in poverty in Austria. Today, 300 000 people are affected by real poverty, more than ever since the 1950s. It should be much more through the pension reform alone and the planned abolition of emergency aid. It is also sad that the suspensions which the pension reform should make socially more tolerable are thought only of those over 35 years old and not also of young people." I have now quoted Bishop Maximilian Aichern from his speech on “Markt versus Social Ethics” on the occasion of the 2003 Reichsberger Pentecost talks. I believe that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, should also think about this. From my wait there's nothing to add to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Under the chapter Safe Pensions, Fairness of Generations, No Uncovered Check for the Future, Federal Minister Grasser also has in his budget speech on 7. May 2003 found that the sustainable financial viability of health insurance is currently at risk. It is also threatened with self - preservation. But otherwise, this federal government does not understand anything. On the contrary! Other measures, such as the commitment of tobacco tax to health care, to the health system, will be deleted. This means that health insurance will be taken away additional € 82 million. The Minister of Finance for the Budget under the nail. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude and hold: While the government propaganda is still talking about discharge and an unguaranted tax reduction, there is an extreme wave of burden over this country. They are hiding, ladies and gentlemen, from the government fact that, in the years 2004 to 2007, you will pay more than €2.5 billion to the workers, the pensioners and pensioners, and at the same time to the entrepreneurs, freelancers and brokers – and against the burden – more than €400 million. This is the largest redistribution of small, small and medium-sized incomes in favour of well-earned enterprises that have ever taken place in that country. Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel and Mr. Finanzminister Grasser will probably go into the history of the Second Republic as the largest tax chancellor and the largest tax finance minister – and you, Mr. Vice chancellor, will play. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16772	The next speaker was Mrs Marek. As she wishes, she speaks to us for 4 minutes, and she enters the speaker's desk with a flower in her hand.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16791	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mrs Mandak, a brief remark: The Austrian Family Federation is an independent non-profit association – and not the “ÖVP family association”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that the compatibility of family and profession is and remains the political challenge for women in particular is probably undisputed. In reality, the lion's share of family work is likely to be more or less female in the future. All the more so, we need to work on appropriate framework conditions, which enable both of us women without permanent effort: Profession and family. In addition to appropriate care offers for children between 0 and 15, organization and culture within a company are essential if parents as employees find understanding of their concerns. As President of the Works Council of a company that is really exemplary in this field, I know how it can really work well. More and more companies recognize this – thank God! – and more and more come to the conviction that it is simply paying off to do something here. An important tool that helps these companies optimize internal processes in terms of family friendliness and finding weaknesses is the audit “family and profession”, introduced by then Minister of Family Martin Bartenstein in Austria five years ago. This was the example of the American family-friendly index, which has been an important quality feature for companies in the USA for years. Since then, 70 companies and institutions have been audited and certified by the various industries. Less fluctuation, declining health conditions and a significantly higher motivation of employees are important business sizes, which are also very important for the success of these companies. Professional accompaniment by specially trained consultants and experts guarantees maximum objectivity. Although the costs of carrying out the audit are limited, the Federal Ministry of Social Security and Generations nevertheless reimburses a great deal of these amounts depending on the size of the company. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is, of course, a very important aspect for smaller companies in order to decide to participate in the audit at all – and the interest of our economy is great. That is why I am very glad that the resources will be available in the coming years to ensure the continuation and further development of this important measure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The fact that this issue is becoming increasingly important in the public also shows the now very high level of awareness of the German competition “Women- and family-friendly business”, which, as I can say in all modesty, also bears the manuscript of the ÖVP. And this Austrian-wide action will continue in the coming years. [[Abg. Brosz: This is not an independent...!]] Ladies and gentlemen – above all the gentlemen! Family work, of course, is not pure women's business – or should it not be at least. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We call for and promote active fathers, so that a sharing of family work – through awareness-building, and not by law – becomes more and more natural. Last Sunday was Father's Day. [[Some female representatives of the ÖVP distribute to the male representatives of all political groups a pot of orange-red paper with orange-red flowers.]] For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we can hand over to you a plant that you like and care for. She should all remember how important fathers are for her children and their role in the family!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16867	Thank you. – Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser, Member of the Greens – that fits the flower! Your speaking time is 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16889	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the ÖVP, don't let yourself be disturbed when distributing the plants. I haven't seen that much green red in a long time! Thank you for this optical image! - That's what's left. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: You won't see green red for a long time!]] Today this is a friendly gesture, purely coloury. Thank you again! With this distribution action, you have already come to a very striped matter – Mr Minister, you have just mentioned this subject briefly, but for me it is a central point, and also for the Secretary of State – the question of consumer protection. Mr Minister, you have rightly held down and rightly attached this to your flags or to Mrs Minister's flags, that the consumer protection budget – and this is the first time it has really been done – has been significantly increased, significantly increased. Mrs. Minister, you have a good starting point – purely financial. What's behind it and why, that interested me, and...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16924	Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to end the distribution now! It's unfair to the speaker. Please, ladies and gentlemen, continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16943	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know their fairness to this extent yet, but thank you very much! [[Call for disapproval of the ÖVP.]] Well, you always get to know new facets! [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true! It wasn't fair!]] [[Call the ÖVP: That wasn't the fine blade!]] All right, I was right about the positive, the purely budgetary approach to consumer protection. The background of the fact that this budget is now at least €3 billion at once – or was it millions?, excuse me, I correct myself: over €3 million – is indeed a very simpler: Fortunately, with regard to the financial resources, consumer protection is now located in the social sector. I think that's the tenth station in the entire hiking district that the consumer protection sector has been through so far: Once it was the health policy combined with consumer protection, once it was the judicial policy, in between it was located in other resorts, including at the economic resort et cetera. In the social sector, consumer protection is a small sector, a small section. The social sector has a lot of resources in total, and in so far as that was my explanation for this increase in money, it was easier in the social sector to obtain increased consumer protection funds than in the previous resorts, where the starting point of the overall resort was lower from the outset. Therefore, my congratulations on the fact that this distribution of resources has led to a increase in money! [[Cheerfulness of the Secretary of State Haubner.]] Well, my question was: What are you doing, Mrs State Secretary, from this favourable basis? How do you look at your first days – I think it's 120 days up to now, isn't it? – on consumer protection? So far, you have been an empty sheet for me to protect consumers, a mere budget. [[Abg. Rossmann: Read the biography!]] – I said: So far! I'm just going to find out very soberly. I am curious about what will be read on this paper within the next 100, 200 days, Mrs. State Secretary! [[Abg. Rossmann: Read the biography!]] You have so far been engaged in non-consuming areas, since you have been constantly engaged in fire-retardant actions, fire-retardant actions, any negotiation or mediation actions between Klagenfurt and Vienna – I do not know, between Mr Scheuch and Mr. Haupt or between other parties – I think. [[Abg. Wittauer: Where?]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Next time we will ask you what we have to do! We're gonna get that far!]] They could probably not miss a minute for consumer protection, and accordingly the latte also looks like problems! – I now leave the budgetary and go to the content, to the problem horizon: Mrs Minister, you are taking on an area that is urgent – urgently! – to improve information for consumers. You need better information institutions, you need better opportunities to communicate knowledge, and you need, above all, a consumer organisation in the form of the VKI, which can develop a perspective that can financially see a horizon ahead, so that it can expand, spread, deepen, multiply! – Now you need to see this opportunity on the one hand. On the other hand, you need to increase the effectiveness of Parliament, for you should try it out – as I do – in eight committees! This is a pure cross-sectional matter. In eight committees the consumer protection facts are taking place! Go over to the economic resort, there you have the product identification, there you have the award ceremony. These are important elements, you have to interfere! – So far, I haven't seen anything of that. I'm just telling you, these are hot irons that have to be attacked at last. You also have to go over to the health resort, there is food safety, an essential aspect of food control – and they have too little money! [[Abg. Wittauer: Food safety is well regulated!]] Or: Go to the Agency for Health and Dietary Safety. There is a big restructuring, and the funds are too little in the back and front. – This is a central consumer protection issue for which you need to warm yourself up, so to speak, where you need to get involved! In this House, too, do your utmost to ensure that these agendas receive a wider voice cane! Make sure that we set up an advisory board, a advisory board, which will also be working in Parliament, so that the concern gets more weighty. You probably know the same thing as I do. In the final effect, it is not only quite banal to say that everyone and every consumer is, but in the end, consumers also have the power to make social policy and economic policy decisions about their purchase decision. This political arm of a consumer policy, which one must develop, force and drive, because we can become effective through our purchasing behaviour – and this is certainly my easily utopian attitude – also economic policy, also social policy. And that would be a perspective for which it is worth making offensive use of the increased resources you now have. I hope you work in this direction. So far, I couldn't see anything of it. They were busy with things that we sometimes consider to be something I do not want to lose words about. Use the start base now! I'm curious about what's going to happen in the next 120 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17071	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17089	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! In the last days and even today, the representatives of SPÖ and Greens have constantly repeated their prayers that the present double budget will make women and families worse in the future. It is true, however, that this double budget includes comprehensive measures for women and especially for families. [[Abg. May. Worm: Bad measures!]] Since the liberals are in the government, it is finally possible for child rearing to be recognized as a work performance. For the first time, the family care, the housework is really recognized – this is a work done by women in seven billion hours a year. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Freedom policy for women and families is based on equal opportunities and freedom of choice – on freedom of choice for all women, whether they are in employment, whether they are farmers, whether they are housewives or they are students. This policy is also very successful, and this is reflected in acceptance, for example, in the fact that the childcare allowance was very well accepted. [[Call the SPÖ:No na!]] Through this childcare allowance, Austria has a leading role in Europe as a modern and future-oriented family country. In 2002, more than 100 000 people received child benefits, and what is even more beautiful: More than 11,000 students, housewives and farmers have paid the child money – money they would never have received under the Minister of Women! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The favour for the multiple births was also decided in the Council of Ministers this Wednesday, so that for multiples, for twins and drillings, a 50 percent increased child allowance is paid and thus every family with multiple children will receive additional €218 for multiples. A major concern is the compatibility of family and profession, and therefore we welcome the auditing process “family and profession”, which has been set up by the Minister of Social Affairs Herbert Haupt, in particular. In this context, working hours, work processes and also the service for families are carefully explained in the companies and advisory and external assessment costs are taken over and funded by the federal government. The problem of compatibility is finally put at the root of the problem, which is an advantage for the families, because it will help manage child education and job, but also create advantages for the companies. This offers real incentives for families to create a family-friendly working world, and this will lead – through the creation of incentives for companies – to a decisive success in the sense of a real reconciliation of family and work. Ladies and gentlemen! The accusations of a bad family policy lack any basis. I could now list you a whole catalogue of successful measures, only that would break the scope of my speaking time. I only recall that, for the first time, the pensionable bill of child rearing is possible, that the care allowance is available from the birth of a disabled child and that it is possible to use family hospice care for the support of family members and children who are seriously ill at the same time as being insured for illness and pension. In the future, pension-based child rearing periods will be increased from 18 to 24 months, which in turn means a further step towards the protection and self-sufficiency of women in old age. Ladies and gentlemen! The improvement of women and especially families is a major concern for us, and I am sure that the budget for families lies with State Secretary Ursula Haubnerin very responsible hands!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17154	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17189	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! First of all, on behalf of my group and on my own behalf, I should like to thank the ladies very much for their flowers. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP and representatives of the Greens.]] I can point out that, as I have learned, these are midday gold plants that unfortunately are only one year old. But that doesn't matter – one year's joy is enough! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Next year we'll be back!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] But what is also important in this context: You need a lot of sun – and I think a lot of sun also needs social policy in our country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] The Austrian social security scheme, which I would like to deal with in my speech, is the most important basis for social security in our country, in our society, and, of course, in social insurance, health insurance is an important one – I even want to say: a special one – for health insurance. Self-administration has proved itself very well in the local health telephone and in the other health insurance companies, and I believe that health insurance also deserves the right to support by policy. In the following, I would like to draw attention to three examples of what this support for policy towards health insurance in the past has looked like. Sometimes I've thought lately that she might be bigger, sometimes I've even missed her. First example: Over the past few months or years, health insurance schemes have been taxed by new tasks, I would say, but at the same time their revenue has been reduced by, for example, reducing contributions and much more. [[Abg. Wittauer: You want contribution increases! On the other hand, we are! There will be no increases in contributions under this government!]] In an answer to a question, this burden is estimated by the health sector of the current government at €141.5 million, i.e. almost 2 billion schilling – not a little. Second example: The debt of the employers in the local health phone has reached a high level in our Republic. They have never been as high as they are: more than 11 billion schilling – I still express it in Schilling. Here I cannot see any support for the cash registers on the part of politics, namely that one would help to bring the employer morale to a level that it belongs to, so that the debt decreases. It's just being watched. Action in this area would be urgently needed! Third example: The increase in organized forms of illegal employment by entrepreneurs is also seen. [[Abg. Wittauer: There is a separate intervention force that is very successful! This is from the Ministry of Finance...! This is a very successful team!]] There are no initiatives against organised black jobs and social fraud. The Social Democrats' proposals on this issue are not being taken up. This means that many millions of social security contributions are lost. I believe that nothing to do and not to act on this issue can be an advantage. Ladies and gentlemen! The government is thus in a certain way starving the health insurance companies. Maybe later she says: Look at how they have managed!, and then explain some sort of organizational change. The solution to these problems is offered to us with this budget and with the current discussions in the field of self retention. [[Abg. Wittauer: You have introduced them! 16 different self-holds!]] Mr Fassleven asked in his speech today what is bad about self retention. – There are many reasons and many arguments about this, I would just like to make one mention of self retention, in my opinion, those who are not well, in addition, and certainly also cause some to refrain from visiting the doctor. [[Abg. Wittauer: Most of the self-holds you have introduced, the Social Democrats!]] The powder from the pharmacy...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17298	Deputies! Your 4 minutes of voluntary speaking time is over. If you continue speaking, your last speaker will no longer speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17324	The powder from the pharmacy is cheaper than the retention. That is why, I think, the way to introduce restraint is not the right one on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17352	The next speaker is Mr Principal. As a speech time, 3 minutes were desired. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17370	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I can thank you on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the initiative and the flowers of our Members! Mr Riepl, you are worried about the sun for social policy. Thanks to the work of the ÖVP, the FPÖ and the Federal Government not only the flowers are well cared for, but it is also warmth in our social policy, and that is good for the people in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Family policy is undoubtedly at the heart of the policy of our federal government. Never has a federal government done so much for the children and families. The figures of the double budget 2003 and 2004 underline this and consistently continue the child- and family-friendly policy of our Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Federal Government has indeed created freedom of choice for the families with the introduction of the child care allowance, and we have thus brought into the boat those who used to fall out of the karenz money, namely farmers, self-employed women, housewives, students. Ladies and gentlemen, this is social justice! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This year alone, the circle has increased by about 17 000 people. Home travel aid for boarding school students and apprentices is also very valuable for young people, especially in rural areas. The family allowance has been increased, and the childcare allowance for multiple births will also be increased by €218 per month. We secure with the budget the assistance for parents of disabled children from the birth of the child. Family hospice and the acquisition of pension insurance contributions for persons caring for family members underline our social competence. With the increase in pensionable child rearing periods for all births from 1. In January 2002 from 18 to 24 months and the extension during the calculation period to a full three years, we set out with yesterday's pension insurance reform. This is a consistent way forward. The monotonous pitys of the opposition parties demonstrate the accuracy of our actions. Ladies and gentlemen! For our children and the families, no one will overwhelm us.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17433	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. As a speech time, 5 minutes were desired. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17452	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Already in today's debate on the financialability of the Israeli cultural community – and this also applies to the chapter on social security and generations, which we are discussing now – it has been shown that the issue of finance is obviously not only one of financial resources, but also one of political weightings. I come back to a subject that we have discussed several times in the House, namely the amendment of the Federal Youth Promotion Act and the resulting very opportune equipment of the Austrian Pennal Ring. – Mr Scheuch is not in the hall now, but a discussion with him, for which there is more money, would be quite interesting. He may also find suggestions on how to get money for the miners. The fact is that since the amendment of the Federal Youth Promotion Act it has become possible that the Pennal Ring will also be quite generously promoted, and I would like to remind you again. I am not concerned that only the existing groups should have been promoted. However, the aim of the Youth Promotion Act is to promote the willingness of young people to tolerate, to understand, to live together peacefully and to promote mutual understanding in the national as well as in the international field. On the other hand, if you look at the political activities of this Pennal Ring, I wonder whether this is in any form in accordance with the objective of this Law. I quote from the newspaper issue 2/2001, where they invite you to a welcome evening, on which the famous German fighter pilot Walter Novotny (258 confirmed shots!) will be at the centre of attention. His brother will give us insights into the time with slides and his living stories. And then the remarkable subtitle – I quote –: We consciously put this evening under the title “Time History Different. ” For “politically correct” persons, this talk is rather not suitable. - Quote. This publication and the Austrian Pennalerring are funded from the resources of the Social Ministry, from the funds of the Federal Youth Fund. I find this particularly remarkable on a day when we are discussing the fact that the Israeli cultural community de facto can no longer maintain some of its central activities due to a lack of financial resources, so that something like this is still being promoted in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Deputies of the SPÖ.]] But – ah, the Minister has also come back – it is no wonder that this support at the FPÖ is in agreement. [[Abg. Steibl: He was always there!]] You only need to read more in the publications. In fact, it is explicitly referred to that it has only become possible by the FPÖ that there are these promotions for the Pennal Ring now, and it is also cordially thanks to a man who is primarily responsible for this, namely a certain Volker Knetel, who will probably also be known in the FPÖ Group, and who – I quote – is standing in constant contact with various political sizes and has always kept his eyes and ears open, keeping his fingers at the pulse of time...” and so as to allow the funds to flow into the Pennälerring. If you continue to see who the Volker Knestel is, you only need to look at the ring of Freedom-Economics. There you will find him as a speaker and responsible for the coordination of Parliament, and if you want to send Mr Hofmann an e-mail, it is best to send it to Mr Knestel, because there is the e-mail address of Mr Hofmann. There must be no more clear contexts than in this case! It is also possible to look at what Mr Knestel, who is also the vice-president of the Pennal Ring, says in political terms, for example on the issue of EU Easter enlargement, which is a good thing for a government party. Or you can also look at how otherwise the political contacts of the ring are. According to newspaper issue 1/2002, there is the Burschentag in Upper Austria with the speakers Mag. Saviour, interestingly Mag. Herbert Haupt – as far as I know, Social Minister and responsible for youth agendas – or also the comers with Mr Stadler, Mölzer and Landeshüfer Haider, with which it is proven that there are “nothing” FPÖ-near speakers. The fact is that the FPÖ has once again very nice itself with money – well, we say not enriched, but secured access to funds, and that it is simply unacceptable that right-wing organisations in Austria are promoted from public resources. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: Then she would be forbidden!]] In conclusion, I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17531	The request of Mr Brosz, friends and friends, regarding the termination of the funding from the Federal Youth Fund to the Austrian Pennälerring, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Wattaul, who spoke for 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17555	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! For the time being, I would also like to thank our group for the nice bouquet of flowers: Thank you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I have been watching closely all day, and I have listened consciously to the contributions made by the Social Democratic Party, and I must honestly say: I'm shocked! You have the word “social democracy” in your party name, but what has come here today is an insanity. It's really shocking to me, and I think you've given up completely. It's just called for. The basic principle that you can't spend more than you take, you just don't understand. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: And then what does Minister Head distribute?]] [[Abg. May. Hoscher: Take-off hunters!]] Have for me They lost all the right to talk about social things. This morning I listened to colleagues from Gusenbauer. I know Gusenbauer, because he's a Ybbser, and Ybbs is five kilometers away from my home. I know him as a young man; he went to school with my sister in Wieselburg. Mr Gusenbauer worked for a company for two months in his life, at the post office in Wieselburg as a vacation practitioner. Our mayor was also a postmaster and a social democrat. He told me that the first thing Mr Gusenbauer asked for after a week was a moped. So it was a social democrat who told me he didn't like it at all. [[Abg. May. Hoscher: A moped! That's great!]] And then Mr Gusenbauer goes here today and tells us something about economic policy, which is really shocking. That really is the last thing I've ever heard! [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Now I'm saying it: I wouldn't have told you otherwise, but now I'm telling you! The mayor said to me: He was even too stupid to come together! - Now I say it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17620	Deputies! This style is not the style of the house! I'm asking you to take this back!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17635	I'll take it back, but he just said it. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Mr Riepl said that self retention was bad. [[Abg. Brosz: For a moped?]] Mr Riepl, I ask you: What about the Austrian Federal Railways, the Social Insurance of the Austrian Federal Railways? Is this a bad social security now? I just don't understand, you're in constant opposition. I'm not coming with you anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: That is not our problem, but yours!]] The argument is really crazy! And maybe again my favorite theme: Every year we pay 7 billion Schilling interest in Austria. [[Abg. Reheis: And there you want to spend € 2 billion for interceptors!]] You know where those seven billion schillings go? – These 7 billion schillings go back to the banks, flow into capital. Think about what is actually the cause of such a debt policy! It's really unsocial! And we say we should save for a pension. What's going to happen to this money? – This money is likely to be invested, and the citizens who save can at least recover money from these interest rates. – As far as you have to think, you have to understand! It's just an insanity that you don't understand the simplest things. I'm really so shocked, and I can only say one thing: I am glad that we have such a minister and such a State Secretary, because if the cast farmer in Austria had something to talk about – no, thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17721	Mr Gusenbauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes, first of all the facts to be corrected and then the right one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17757	Mr President. Mr Wattaul has claimed that in the course of my extremely successful holiday practice at the Post Office 3250 Wieselburg in 1978, I would have been the first to ask for a moped. – This claim is simply false, as is anything else that honourable Member Wattaul has made in his remarks. By the way, I am of the opinion: This kind of discussion has not lost anything in the House!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17784	The last sentence was not quite in conformity with business rules, but I agree with you. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Three minutes, ladies and gentlemen. Your folder has intervened orderly.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17812	Mr President. High house! Then I need to talk faster now. Mr Wattaul, thank God you have not exhausted the 5 minutes, but you have stopped speaking earlier and have left. Please rather take care of road pricing, for example, or other things, but it is probably more difficult for you as a freighter than for three minutes to talk really crazy stuff here.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17827	But that's not the fine way again!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17842	That is not quite right either, Mr President, that is right. When he was still a youth minister, Vice-Chancellor's head started to make modern youth policy. I would like to point out a brochure: ‘Love, sex and so...’. – This is really good, a good information brochure, but unfortunately some of it was also viewed by the coalition partner as too free and a little criticised. Because my colleague, Fuhrmann, just out here yesterday, had the bird ostrich standing by, I mean: Especially in the field of youth policy, we should not put our heads in the sand, if we really keep our eyes and ears open to the concerns of our young people so that we can get a hint of modernity. [[Abg. Amon: The ostrich was on you!]] We must take note of the following: The “youth of today” does not exist, the young people live in different worlds of life, the young people of today are moving in scenes and youth cultures, and we have to take this into account, and there is also a need for budget resources, that is no question. In Austria, the field of youth research is not really very privileged. Unfortunately, the Austrian Institute of Youth Research has not received any funding from the Ministry. Perhaps Mrs Haubner can give us some information about this. Especially in the field of research, we need much more resources because we have many experts. In principle, the budget for child and youth policy has remained the same. It hasn't gotten any smaller, it's already something positive. I believe, however, that, given the challenges of society in which we live, we need a much higher budget for young people living here, especially if it is to you, Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, it is really serious when you repeatedly confirm how important the future of our children and young people is to you. That is why we need much more budget resources in this area. Unfortunately, however, in view of what you decided yesterday, you are making the future of young workers look rather sad and, unfortunately, also the future of the pupils of Austria, because there has also been a massive reduction in education. The leisure sector is an extremely important area, and I would like to end by talking about it. This is an area that is very important for children and young people themselves. We have very many good youth organisations and associations that offer excellent projects to do good work. But unfortunately, the budget pot of federal youth funding is very small. If the money is spent on certain projects, then there will be no more money for individual projects. I think it is important to increase the importance of child and youth policy by massively increasing budget resources in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17885	Next speaker is Member Riener. She also speaks to us for 3 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17903	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to dedicate my remarks to the topic of family, especially the family advisory services. Last year, 10 879 306 € were spent on family counsellors. For the next two years, €10901,000 is estimated. I consider this form of family support to be extremely important, especially since the around 355 advisory offices are distributed across all the federal states. In addition, in agglomerations, family counsellors with special emphasis, such as violence in the family, covered by the child protection centres, consultation for disabled people and their families, mediation and divorce support are financed directly to the district courts and advice of relatives of mentally ill people. At this point, I would like to thank the many consultants for the work they have done in the family advisory services. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For 16 years I myself have tried to help people seeking advice, to cope with crises and to build up personal resources so that they can cope with their lives more easily. Since acceptance of consultation has grown, I am also glad that that the family advisory services should be extended to family centres. I experience in my work that parents, often mothers, but also fathers, are overwhelmed to live up to all roles. It also seems important to me to note that there has been a change in partnership and parenthood for years. It is important to bring parenthood, partnership, labour demand, leisure time and childhood into a hat with respect to parents who have become older. In dealing with these challenges, parents would be very early to stand by, support and strengthen them, a precautionary and preventive task of these family competence centres. Family support in an ideal and material form is and has always been an integral part of the policy of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, even here in the House, I ask you for all our future: In this sense, we support the parents in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17964	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. A speaking time of 5 minutes is set. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e17982	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! For now, I would also like to thank colleagues from FPÖ and ÖVP for the flowers! On this occasion, however, I would also like to point out that, ladies and gentlemen, if you really want the fathers and men to be more with their families, you must first and foremost be careful that the wage level is changed accordingly and women get the same wage for equivalent work! Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ: That's the key question! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is what you need to implement, and there is also a need for a committed and ambitious social policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] This would mean that women should not be disadvantaged, especially in the area of pensions, but should be favoured so as not to be further deterred, because with only ten, 15 or 20 years of employment, they only receive a milky share of their pension from the cake. That's just unscrupulous, and that's why I'm saying: Flowers are beautiful, but good politics is better! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schöls: Together is ÖVP: good politics and flowers!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Of course we take them with us; no question! Mrs Haubner, I would like to address your area of work, namely consumer protection policy in Austria. They have repeatedly pointed out in the committees that consumer protection is a cross-sectional matter. – That’s right, no question! In this context, however, it is also necessary to establish clearly and clearly, namely that you de facto have an area of activity without appropriate resources and competences. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs. State Secretary, this is a shame from our point of view and a manko of the overall strategy: They have neither competence in the food sector nor in the veterinary sector. As a result, you are effectively powerless in your area. You can discuss a bit with the other ministers, but you really can't move anything. With a budget of just over €3 million, this is really not possible! – As far as this is concerned, I hope that you will make something meaningful out of it! One point I would like to address concerns the whole of the seal policy. In this area, you have rightly found in an answer to the budget consultations that the sensuality of the seal of goodness is extremely differentiated and that there is also the risk of misleading consumers. - I have to give you the right! Especially in the field of agricultural quality seals, we have repeatedly held intensive debates in this House. As you know, it would be urgent to develop a greater differentiation in the field of food quality seals between the labelling of organic food and the basic standard, namely the AMA seal. In the AMA, too, we are already considering this. I would therefore be very interested to see whether you will also set up initiatives in this regard. A second area, which is particularly dear to my heart, is a focus in the field of non-genocidal food in terms of labelling and application of these foods. To this end, you answered me as follows – I would like to quote: ‘For the purpose of using synergies, the Ministry of Consumer Protection will therefore take action in agreement with the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety.’ Mr Haubner, you have no more competence in this agency, however, that is also evident from the fact that a change in the law, namely one of the Food Safety Act, is now under assessment, according to which your responsibilities and competences in the field of the Food Safety Agency are deleted. – I would have liked to know what you are going to do, that you continue to have competence in this area. On current occasion, I would also like to address a feed scandal that has become known today: An antibiotic named Nifursol, which had been mixed for turkeys and since 1. It was obviously found by environmental and animal welfare organisations in feed in Austria on March 3, 2003. You can also see this: Despite lip confessions and despite a food safety agency, there are still gaps in the control system. I therefore ask you to exert massive pressure so that not only ex post, but already ex ante the appropriate measures are put in place and also implemented and enforced! In conclusion, Mrs Haubner, I would like to address one of the main concerns of the opposition to you: How would it be if we could deal with consumer policy concerns in a separate parliamentary committee? It would be a good sign and also a sensible political signal to pool these concerns into a committee! You have made a positive statement in the parliamentary debate, and I hope that you will also take steps to ensure that this issue in this House is given its own committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18050	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. His proposal is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18070	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you operate in this high house permanent mobbing! If I say "mobbing," I also understand that Parliamentary Cap has been listed here as in the Cabaret. I'm not the Deputy Minister of Finance Grasser, but I have to say: This kind of politics has lost nothing in this House! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Also MP Pilz continues to operate Mobbing: He brings intellects, has no evidence of this, speaks of “moving ” and“ fraud. ” – That is the type of opposition to deal with politics! Or if, for example, Mr Gusenbauer here calls for a clean policy, but even an indecent or – apologies! – another policy, then you find that strange! The trade union is also always talking about free mandates and democracy in Parliament. – I myself have already participated a lot in advance: Economic operators have been muttered by the trade union. You get SMS yourself from the union, something is being ordered! – This kind of mobbing has certainly not lost anything in this House! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Evil is always and everywhere!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I'm coming to you, ladies and gentlemen. I'll maybe give you something so you can learn what I mean! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Do you have a bad conscience?]] Then there are publications of the union: There are “super stories”, and in that it says: Social justice, rather than getting rid of it! – I would look at the contents of this pension reform in your place, then you might know what you are talking about! – This pension reform is socially just and forward-looking! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, I do not want to keep the House away from what is called "Mobbing". Our Secretary of State Haubner has brought out a very wonderful fibula. I'll give it to you afterwards. Mobbing's called... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Listen, then you'll be You may also know, Mr Deputies. – The term “mobbing” means “puzzles”, “to finish”. – That’s a very clear concept! That's what you're trying to do, but you won't do that with this government party and with this government! We may be faced with problems, but we will defend ourselves by making a better policy than you have in the past 30 years! We will ensure that you stay in opposition for a long time, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I really want to give you the brochure “Fair Play” mentioned. It is also a service for consumers and for the fellow human beings. I will give you a brochure, Mr Cap, and I will get some more for the trade union. And, of course, I can't quite forget the greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18165	Mrs Haubner has now come to speak. [[Abg. Wittauer: I'm not done yet!]] Please, then continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18192	As a responsible politician of this government party, however, I would like to return to real policy. We... In the past, the question of consumer protection is like an empty leaf. That is why I would like to tell you a few things that have a very big effect. Especially on the question of consumer protection, the freedom policy of the Minister of Justice Dr. Dieter Böhmdörfer was very successful, and this successful path is set by our State Secretary Ursula Haubnerfort. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In today's time, where consumer representations are increasingly important, the increase in budget resources for this State Secretariat is to be welcomed. €3,875 million will be available in this consumer protection budget, which is 1.5 million more than in the previous year. These funds will be used in a targeted, forward-looking and efficient manner. This policy constantly improves consumer protection and improves its efficiency. I would have much to say about this, but I know that my speaking time is limited, but the next time I will come back to it. Unfortunately, God gives me time and again the opportunity to respond to you in a negative sense. But people outside also want to know how you understand your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18243	Now your speech really seems to be over. Mrs Haubner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18264	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The hour is already a bit advanced, and in the last minutes and hours there have been many very interesting versions here. First of all, I would like to say that I believe that it is always important, whether you are a government politician or a politician or an opposition politician or a politician, to be self-critical about your own word reports, as far as what you say is concerned, but also about what you want and what you have done. I am now in front of you, and I am self-critical of what I have done in the last 120 days, as Mrs Moser has said. I can calm you down: I spent a lot of time working in the government, but not for any mediation, because I went to the government to carry out tasks here for the people of Austria – and not to take over party-political tasks. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: What tasks, Mrs. State Secretary?]] I'm self-critical, but I also say: I am very happy and happy that for years we have been continuing and developing a family policy that is truly future-looking and sustainable! I said yesterday in my speech: Good pension policy starts with the children. And that's what I'm standing for! We need to invest where the future generations are concerned, i.e. in the families and in the children. And we have done a lot in the past about this! If Mrs. Weinzinger says that poverty is very high, I can give her a measure of justice. We really have to do a lot to ensure that poverty does not increase at least! However, poverty has not grown from one year to the next, but unfortunately it is also a development of the past decades. [[Abg. May. Trunk: That's not true at all!]] We are against it within the framework of family policy. For the first time, we have introduced a childcare allowance to combat poverty in the families. And also in the WIFO study on child care benefits, on which the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition have repeatedly called, it is quite clear that the child care allowance for the first time takes anti-poverty measures, as women thus have the status to be insured under pension and social security law over a short or longer period of time. I would like to add: We have increased this monetary area – whether it be the family allowance or the multi-child supplement. We have introduced a care allowance from birth or home travel allowances for apprentices and pupils or the apprentice and student free rides at all. Just today, I was able to inform at a press conference that after 17 years of discussion from the school year 2003/2004, there will be an ID card for free travel and free choice for students on request. In this area too, we set signs of support and financial development for families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That's why I'm saying: We will continue along this path well! I am glad that next year we will be able to conduct “Ten years of the International Year of the Family” and take this opportunity to show what happened in Austria in these ten years in family policy, and what measures we have particularly strengthened in recent years. I mean, we really have something to show in this area. The youth is of course a part of the families and the generations. I mean, nothing can be too small for the young. Much has to be invested in youth, and we are also on a good path in this regard, because we have decided to implement a national action plan on children's rights. I would like to thank all the organisations involved and to work out by the end of the year those measures which we can then decide politically. That too is an important and right way! Today, an example of youth promotion and the Youth Promotion Act was discussed in an example that I do not fully understand. – For two years, we have been thanking God for the first time a law on youth promotion with very strict criteria, and Mr. Haupt has said two years ago when he introduced that we will evaluate this new Youth Promotion Act after two years and see what else we can do, whether we need more money or we need to transform it. So a very sensible measure has been put in place, and we are now evaluating it. Mr Brosz, I would be pleased if the Greens could take part in this context too. The representatives of the Greens were the only ones who did not come to the meetings to introduce their initiatives. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] I would like to welcome the introduction of initiatives there – and not just here on the panel to present examples that have been torn out of context! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] An important task in the sense of generational work is, of course, also the policy of the elderly, which can not only be determined or reduced on pension-safe measures. This area is also much more important. In recent years, we have for the first time succeeded in making politics not only for the seniors but with the seniors. The establishment of the Senior Council or the Federal Advisory Council is the right way. We have already taken several initiatives in this regard, and I am now thinking of the joint initiative with the Council of Senior Citizens on the safety of the elderly in the budget. This is an up-to-date issue because most of the accidents of senior citizens do not occur in road traffic, but in the household. We will work intensively in these areas. We will also do much with regard to lifelong learning and, in particular, with regard to the study of old age. Ladies and gentlemen! Consumer protection has been very intensively addressed by some speakers today. Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Moser, we know each other from Upper Austria, and you know that consumer protection is a very important concern for me. That is why I was very pleased that it is now located in the Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations. I see this very positively. I also see it very positively that we have more resources at our disposal. These funds have been created through negotiations and have not been resold and allocated from anywhere. However, we have done something in these 120 days, in the sense of right, because you can only learn about right if you create right. I would like to give you a few examples. We have brought in our consumer policy concerns in laws that have been or are under review, I refer to the real estate investment fund law for example. We have also brought our thoughts into the Telecommunications Act, which is soon to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. We have also introduced the Consumer Protection Act, which is being modernised, our reflections on the damage caused by travel defects. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] All this is happening, and that must be implemented! We have also increased the funds in the area of VKI, because the VKI has the opportunity to carry out association and damages complaints. For example, we have achieved the obligation to provide information in the case of telephone information, something that has been done through our complaint activity – within the framework of a VKI's contract of work – or the fair terms of business in the bank cards. I therefore believe that much has happened in these 100 or 120 days, but of course it is still very much to do. We are currently putting consumer education and information on new feet. We will soon be able to show you something you are probably very excited about. If decision-making is to be taken in Parliament, I am sure that you too will agree with all of this by the Green Group.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18362	Mrs Binder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the The clock is set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18383	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Molterer said this morning that Austria would be a top rider, namely as a family country in Europe. – Mr Klubobmann, I give you the right. I'm absolutely right about you! We owe this leadership to the Austrian family for the last 30 years and for the importance that we have given to social democrats. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, family needs to be developed, improved, improved over and over again. However, the decisions made yesterday, in my opinion, are rather bad for the Austrian families. I also believe that Sunday speeches are too little in connection with families and children, because above all, it is about acceptance, respect and rights – rights that are set for children in the UN Convention on Children's Rights, ladies and gentlemen. Let's take a look over the church tower together! 36% of the world's population are under 18 years of age. Child labour, child prostitution and violence are still on the agenda; in Asia, about 1 million children end up in prostitution each year. Nearly 120 million children worldwide are excluded from schooling; countless children die daily in armed conflicts. Ladies and gentlemen! Even in Austria, the situation of children and young people is not always the best and must be constantly improved. Children are still victims of violence and abuse. Many children live at the poverty line and suffer from it. While I am right, Mrs State Secretary, that there is a great deal to be done in this regard, it is also of the opinion that, above all, the provision of services, services in kind and infrastructure for children is very necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! The main points in the Convention on Children's Rights are as follows: Children have a right to care, children have a right to protection, and children have a right to participation. – I too welcome the working groups in connection with the national action plan for the implementation of children’s rights. I hope that at the end of the actions and activities, the UN Convention on Children's Rights will be enshrined in the Austrian Constitution, so that children can in fact sue and demand their rights. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The final document of the World Summit 2002 contains the following comments: We want a world suitable for children, because a world that is good for us is suitable for everyone and every woman! Ladies and gentlemen! Let us together create for the children this world and its rights to them!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18444	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18462	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I wanted to exchange with Mr Oellinger a little more about the harmonisation of pension systems, but I have to say that the Green Group has actually agreed to do so. [[Deputies Rest-Hinterseer and Mag. Weinzinger waver from their seats to the speaker.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Two are still there!]] Obviously one has made one's own speeches and has to prepare for tomorrow. Otherwise there you are always very interested in exchange. This is a strange democratic attitude, but please. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Mr Mitterlehner! Two ladies will...!]] – Nevertheless, it is relatively few, I would say – given the total number of mandates there. But that's not the real issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In view of the advanced period, I would just like to briefly address two areas from the competence of Mr Vice-Chancellor or the Secretary of State. – Mrs. State Secretary Haubner, I have heard from your presentation that you have actually taken a quite positive position on the VKI, and I would like to see a regular member of this association, that the disputes that have been ongoing for more than a year are now being finally corrected and that the so-called extraordinary member of the Federation does not deal with the ordinary members in such a way and wants to determine cooperation in such a way that it does not appear there. So there are very good prospects for this. The second thing I would like to address is that we have this “year of people with disabilities”, which has already been said several times today. With regard to this, we have, the economy, made a very great effort to set up advisory, information and motivation activities in cooperation with Caritas and AMS. In the context of disability, however, we would have some proposals to improve the framework conditions, which I would like to make just an example here. At present, the legal situation is such that a disabled person needs to be included per 25 employees, otherwise a compensation tax is due. In particular, companies that employ less than 25 people would like to recruit a disabled person. It would therefore be advisable to consider introducing a premium similar to the apprenticeship premium for those establishments if they employ an disabled person. Secondly, the adaptability of the workplace to the disabled could be improved. We could also imagine that the wage subsidy will be extended, and this would also improve a lot in practice. And overall, it would be a step forward if the current protection of termination was extended towards a qualitative protection of termination, namely mediation and appropriate assistance, the work assistance. This would move many businesses to stop more disabled people than they are already doing. Ladies and gentlemen! With all these improvements, the professional integration of the disabled would really work better than now, and it would be a reasonable contribution to the “year of people with heating. ” - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18530	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18549	Mr President. My lady, my lord on the government bank! High house! Mr Mitterlehner – I don't know, is he still in the hall? –, you are very inconsistent: Yesterday, you voted in the abolition of early retirements, but on 18 November. On the other hand, you have made a very different statement to the press in November 2002, because you have asserted the principle of trust and trust protection. [[Abg. May. Tancsits:... sleep for months!]] You are not very consistent in your political action, Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Wake up!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me come to my real topic. In fact, two ministers and two State Secretarys would have to sit behind me on the government bank today in dealing with these issues, because this would be the consequence of the break-up or fragmentation of the ASVG for power policy reasons. That's the same way that this fragmentation looks like. [[The speaker presents a panel consisting of five A4 documents with tables and the transcribed title: “ASVG” in front of the speaker’s desk.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Oh! Improvements!]] You need exactly two ministers, two state secretaries and 59 employees in the respective cabinets. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the effect of this fragmentation of the ASVG for purely power-political reasons? – Higher costs at the expense of the taxpayer by bloating the cabinet, a delay in administration, a complete inscrutability for people in our country and a delay in legislation, for one thing is clear: [[Abg. Neudeck: (in allusion to the signpost “ASVG”) All social democrats of yesterday!]] [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] Only 10 percent of the laws can be passed by a minister alone in future. In 90 percent of the cases, both ministers must give their consent to the legislation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: “Administrative simplification ”!]] It is not surprising, therefore, that the paragraphs need to be cited individually, for otherwise no one would know each other; and therefore, this arrangement, which can really contribute to confusion. [[The speaker points to the table in front of him]] The whole – and this is so strange – is under the title ‘Administrative simplification’, but à la ÖVP/FPÖ government ends. Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, the following can be said: The motto of this Federal Government is: In itself, massive cuts in people who have the money to pay for this waste policy, namely, to name just a few things, in the form of pension cuts and higher self-sufficiency! I would like to take a brief look at Mr Rasinger's comments because he is a ‘model example’ of self-retaining justice. ==References== Mr. Rasinger told us that he was self-reserved. After a month of struggle, he told us that he was not for self-reserving, that he was not to do with him. But finally Rasinger won against Rasinger: He told us on Tuesday that he was for further restraint. But there are also losers in this game Rasinger against Rasinger: those people who will have to pay higher self retention in the future. I would like to address Mr Wattaul – as he used to say, as he no longer “comes along” – as I would like to say: Self retention is dissuasive without distinguishing between necessary and less necessary treatments. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Time!]] They also burden low incomes more than those with higher incomes!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18685	Mr Lacner, I must now tell your club that you have hidden the red light beautifully behind the Taferl.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18706	Overall, it can be said: We are therefore opposed to further restraints, because the present experience disproves the sensibility of general restraints. Finally, because this fits into the concept, I would like to quote one of yours, namely Herwig Frad, a leading representative of the ÖVP in the social security institutions. He gave an interview at the Management Club last year. I would just like to explain briefly the succus of his spiritual greetings: The cost of medication is also increasing because older people especially need a lot in recent years. From the economic point of view, it would have failed to turn the machine off! – This is the conservative approach that we are currently faced with in Parliament: Limitation of performance and rationalization; man comes exclusively to the economic size. This kind of social policy, ladies and gentlemen, we strongly reject the SPÖ. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18745	Mrs Schiesermair has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18764	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! For centuries, parents have taken care of their children. Then, when the parents needed help in old age, the help of the children was asked. If a society like our modern society gets fewer and fewer children, the pension system raises questions that need to be solved. Families are the cells of the state. Our task is to protect these cells. Three years in the calculation period for each child, real years, regardless of what distance these children were born for what reason is this so important to the government parties? [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] – Because child care lasts longer than three years! Good educational education for each individual child to a self-employed, independent person means commitment, empathy and security. This not only promotes the self-confidence of children, but also their strengths and the feeling of being loved. This task is highly educationally demanding and has nothing to do with child rearing, as Mrs Weinzinger claims from the green club. The government parties know the social importance of families, appreciate and acknowledge this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs Weinzinger! My husband is a breeder, an enthusiastic breeder, a pig breeder! You can come to the farm and convince yourself of the difference between child rearing and child rearing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The glass is half full now, we say confident of the government parties. The glass is now half empty!, says the opposition quite pessimisticly. Where has half of the water remained?, the youth asks. – You have that from the SPÖ before many I think it's not necessary for years to be thrown away. The glass, the container of the future, is about to be filled with the responsibility of this federal government. You know, I really am amazed at the value base that your aggressive cynicism probably comes from. Mr. Klubobmann Cap! In the design work of the future, please do not speak of “winners ” and“ losers ”! You said yesterday: Winners look different! – I say to you: In the long term, we and all people in Austria will be winners through these measures! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you say, Mr Oellinger, that there is a text generator with us, I can only refer to the theory of communication. There it is noted that the sender, that is, the one who speaks, is responsible for the fact that the message comes as it is meant. You can now imagine why we always use the word “responsibility ” for you. I would like to share with you a wisdom of the Roman emperor and philosopher Marc Aurel: If you don't get what you want, change what you're doing. – I repeat: If you don't get what you want, change what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18852	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e18870	Mr President, I should like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. I like this red-green here in the high house very well! [[the speaker points to the potted plants distributed in the hall]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The ÖVP women have once thought forward-looking, because they clearly know that the Social Democratic Government Programme and your government policy will contribute to the fact that Red Green will not only be able to be a majority here in the High House today, but also in the population of Austria. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) To the previous speakers very briefly. You, many of the ÖVP and FPÖ readers, are completely right to say that the family and social policies of the SPÖ differ greatly from those of the governments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Abbreviated for humble spirits such as the between speakers before me, so that you can understand what I mean: SPÖ family policy means family law and justice, and not family kindness, because that with kindness is a matter of chance and arbitrariness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We stand for a fair promotion of the families in the sense of real life assurance, not alms and bitting. We stand for framework conditions that give concrete answers to people's real living conditions, not like this government coalition, which means that with its much-known child money can be freed from further political responsibility. [[Abg. Wittauer: All that is done well by this government is made bad by you! That was the best thing Austria could have got!]] The responsibility for children and the care of children – and that is the only thing I give to my previous speaker – is a matter that lasts for more than two or three years. Very concrete: This government coalition does not provide a single euro for childcare facilities in these budgets in 2003/2004! Family policy also means economic, income and labour market policies. This will be done in a short time: Check the government program of the Social Democratic Party! [[Abg. Wittauer: I think you don't even know what you're talking about!]] Their policies are in the interests of capital – our policies are in the service of the people, the workers, the workers, the small and medium-sized enterprises and the families in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In view of the short period of time, I no longer have the opportunity to go into the field of violence prevention; also since: [[Abg. Wittauer: Here we are glad!]] Read the SPÖ program! I now come to the end and have to remind you that with increasing speechlessness in our society, the willingness to act violently is increasing. And that also concerns the violence of the language. [[Abg. Wittauer: But you have to take your own nose! The language plays a big role, that is true!]] In the end, I have to say something to colleagues Scheuch. From this point of view, as a Member of the Federal State of Carinthia, I strongly condemn Mr Scheuch's very clear statements on the very sharpest, because what is not in one of them does not come out of a call for interim action. A truly decent person, Col. Scheuch, would apologize in a decent way and will be able to suffer the consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19000	Mrs Grander is the next speaker. I can ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19018	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, especially the colleagues of the opposition! Your foreign exchange is as follows: We're so poor, the others are so bad! You can read about Bern’s “Adult Games” where this expression comes from in the I-form. Your image of the women's role in sacrifice is constantly preaching to women. Yesterday I was really nervous about it; I'm just telling you that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I believe that these roles have been completely abandoned by women in all areas of life. I myself come from a profession dominated by women, in which many, almost exclusively women work. I can't remember such a picture of women as we are described there again and again. We women, in our independence and also in our own responsibilities, are much further than is constantly claimed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You would also have had the opportunity of changing the legal framework for women from the SPÖ for decades. [[Abg. May. Prammer: You are just taking something away from them!]] No, I'm going to tell you that on the basis of two examples, we're not taking anything away. It was not until 1995 that child rearing periods were first recognized for the pension. At what times was that, and what was before? [[Abg. May. Prammer: 1990!]] We women do not need a glass crash, and it does not have to be regulated on legal regulations only for women. [[Abg. May. Worm: Childcare facilities would be quite practical!]] In daily life the importance of the female side is required in many professional areas. I think there are a lot of things that have already been restructured. That's where I quote another book title: “The clumps don’t give up anymore” by Ute Erhardt. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] “Good girls come to heaven, evil everywhere,” she wrote. The need for bipolarity is already strong in the river for my terms. I would like to oppose your claim of the “social cold”: We make politics with heart and mind, and we make politics for people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The result is also reflected in the pension reform from a women's policy point of view. I am now only saying “hackler rule old”, after which the basis of assessment is for example 1 000 €. The result of the pension is thus € 700 per month. With the “hackler rule new”, where the deposits have been changed, 749,6 € will come out. I figured this out. This means an increase in pension by about €50 per month, so that is by 7.1 per cent more what comes out of pension. I would also like to point out the introduction of the old age pension for persons who are no longer able to go to early retirement. 75 per cent of women and 37 per cent of men benefit from this, as far as I know from the reports of the Committee on Budgets. There you can make the same comparison: So far, the average pension for long unemployment was €727, times €14; that's €10 178 a year. If you charge this further, then with the age transition fee 1 083 € come out. This is due twelve times a year, so the total amount is €13 000. So, on average, there is €2 822 more a year. This is a clear improvement! I can assure you that I and my colleagues will inform and advise people – and not insecure! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19106	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Prammer to speak. I draw attention to the relevant R & D provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19127	Mr President. Mrs Gander has just found... [[Call the ÖVP:Grander! Grander!]] – Gander, I said anyway! – Mrs Gander has just found that the recognition of child rearing periods in the framework of the pension has been introduced under blue-black. - That's wrong! That's wrong! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In the 1970s, it was decided for the first time that child rearing was calculated: four years on 1st. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19165	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19183	Mr President. High house! It is gratifying that the problem of heavy and shift workers has been taken up and dealt with by you on the basis of me and the suggestion of social democracy. Mr Vice-Chancellor and the Minister of Social Affairs has stated here in plenary this week that the summer together with the AUVA has created jobs with regard to heavy work. In this context, it is important to assess the impact of the work on This is an excellent approach, ladies and gentlemen, but the solution to this problem should not be postponed beyond the summer, but one must immediately do something for these people affected. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Chancellor also asked us to cooperate. I would of course like to accept this request, and I will immediately submit proposals to it. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! There is a law in Austria dealing with the matter of shift and heavy work, namely the Night Heavy Labour Act. What does this law say? – employees who make at least 50 night shifts each year in connection with heavy work have the opportunity to retire at the age of 57 after 15 or 20 years. One in itself good law, ladies and gentlemen, but unfortunately it is also due to many problems. This law excludes heavy workers who do not meet the criteria of the night shift. That is, people who do the hardest physical work, but do not create the necessary criterion of 50 night shifts a year, are very badly disadvantaged. The same applies to shift workers who meet the criteria of the night shift, but not those of heavy work: They too are very badly disadvantaged. Ladies and gentlemen! This situation is extremely unsatisfying for those concerned and unfair! A quick and fair solution for these people – and these are thousands – would be possible with a change of the Night Heavy Labour Act. Mr. Vice-Kanzler, you can immediately eliminate the injustices quoted earlier by splitting night work and heavy work, leaving the two individual groups, namely, shift workers with 50 night shifts each year – but without any connection to heavy work – and heavy workers – without any connection with night work – retired at 57 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Vice-Kanzler, you now have the opportunity to show with the implementation of this proposal that you are taking the issue of shift and heavy work seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19246	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19265	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A nice evening! After the budget has already been illuminated by all sides, I will confine myself to addressing some areas that are important to me as an volunteer employee of the family association, but also to the relief work. I am pleased about this – I know that this was also a special concern of the head of Mr. Vice-Chancellor – that it succeeded in implementing the family popular desire of the family association and some other close organizations, except for the cost replacement of the gears. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think we did this together. I am pleased that the colleagues from the FPÖ Group also agree. Mrs Achleitner said that the FPÖ had done everything alone. I think it was not the FPÖ that did everything alone, not the ÖVP, but we did it together! - And that's good. I'm happy about that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For family policy benefits, €4.8 billion is spent in this budget, even more than before – I think that is a good approach. The family allowance will be made from 1st. January 2003 and the childcare allowance will be extended towards multiple births. However, I am also of the opinion of the colleagues of the other parties who have noted several times in this debate that it is necessary to put in place additional accompanying measures on childcare allowances. It will certainly be important to organise new, innovative, creative and flexible child care projects. There are already some, for example the mobile mother-in-laws of the relief agency or female farmers who are trained for day-mothers, hourly offers; we do not always need round-the-clock care. I think that the economy is also called for; creativity is not limited. Disability work will also be ensured for the next few years. The disabled billion was a great project that enabled 700 initiatives. I think it was a very, very good approach that Mr. Vice-Chancellor Head has set up a committee consisting of non-profit organisations, which accompany the priorities and which are ultimately also advisory. Non-profit organizations are key partners in the state, are important partners in the public sector, they can organize much more efficiently, cost-effectively, but also humanly. I am pleased that it is possible here to set many new accents. The “Citizens’ Offices for Young and Alt” which were initiated – 30 in the number in Austria – are also a very interesting initiative, where volunteer work, where voluntary engagement is interconnected. These too are doing great work. A contribution – the light at the speaker’s coil is already flashing –: I think it is very, very important that initiatives have also been put in place in the area of support for caring families. This is an area that is very much in my heart as President of the relief work, because we will need these family-long initiatives, which are very urgent in the years to come: for children, but also for older people, for sick people. The care of these people by these people who volunteer in this field is a very important area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19328	The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19346	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In my opinion, a modern social and family policy also includes ensuring sufficient childcare places – and unfortunately we are still far away in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The problem of missing childcare places is not even mentioned in these budgets! The SPÖ will keep reminding us that measures are urgently needed in this area. Take the example Upper Austria: 40 percent of the municipalities do not have kindergartens that are open throughout. [[Abg. Ellmauer: Complete nonsense!]] Weaknesses exist mainly in the care of children under three years of age, but also in the care of children in the afternoon. Thus, in Upper Austria only one of five communities has a Hort or a similar facility. It should not be surprising, therefore, if the employment of women in these regions is accordingly low and women's unemployment is correspondingly high. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, want to contribute to ensuring that countries and communities provide adequate childcare facilities. How should this happen if, at the same time, you are starving the communities financially and structurally if, by means of social policy abuses such as the so-called New Social Assistance Fund, you are also burdening the countries and communities?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen! As mayor, I also call on the social conscience of the ÖVP family party to support us in the interests of childcare institutions and school forms all day long! – Unfortunately, in this budget there is no trace of it!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19395	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Winkler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19413	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should also like to thank you very much for the nice gesture with the flowers, but as a Forstmann I may say something: I also like red-green flowers, of course also in nature the red-green color. I may be able to find that out in advance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But when it comes to responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, I like something different: When it comes to social security and social sustainability, responsibility is needed, then appropriate courage is needed to change, and then sustainability is ensured by appropriate adjustments. Here, as a truly prominent example, I should like to mention the pension reform which was decided yesterday: It is an example of sustainable thinking and responsible action. As Chairman of the Chambers of Labour, I can already say that we have not taken spectacular measures, but one thing we have done immediately: I have called my directors to determine what social balance is necessary here or what score can still be made in order to achieve a corresponding balance. And here I can say that most of it, not least with the support of Mr Neugebauer, could be implemented or implemented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course you can see the glass half full and half empty – we have seen it half full. We have seen it half fully in the sense of the future and the responsibility for social security in the future, and therefore we have agreed to this reform with a sense of responsibility. As a prerequisite for social security, it is necessary to create appropriate framework conditions to ensure that it is worthwhile, on the one hand, to achieve the achievement, but on the other hand – and on the other hand, I can also hold this – that socially needed and sick people are effectively helped. I should also like to mention that the measures for older employees, which, with the measure of exempting €14 500 a year, strengthen the purchasing power, are being implemented. The introduction of a hardness fund, the right to education and the like are special measures to ensure social security for the future – for all professional groups, for all sectors, for all social areas. I would therefore ask you to agree to the budget also in the sense of future social responsibility. The work is not finished with the vote. It is necessary to assist colleagues with appropriate information – and not to place unnecessary party-political advertising measures, because this money could perhaps be made available to the poor, whom you are talking about over and over again. Then at least you would have done something good.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19477	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19505	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One of my previous speakers, Mr Wittauer, spoke of freedom of expression in consumer policy, saying that the SPÖ consumer policy would be a white paper. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'm correcting: The first State Secretary for Consumer Protection was Anneliese Albrecht, 1979 to 1983. In 1979, the first consumer protection law in Europe was created in Sweden. That was part of the social-democratic consumer policy. – I must therefore reject your precepts and allegations! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Consumer policy has a relatively low priority in policy. One notices this by the name of the ministry, and one also notices it in the division of competence, because these materials are divided as cross-sectional matrices into many ministries. Mrs. Federal Minister! That is why we believe that consumer protection should be given more influence at Parliament level, and our ideas go there – you have welcomed them – that a consumer policy committee, such as at EU and in other European countries, should be set up. We believe that this will give more emphasis to the interests of consumers and that there will also be very concrete regulations here. We will therefore allow ourselves to make an appropriate request at one of the next meetings. But it is not just the parliamentary level, Mrs State Secretary: It is also about the fact that the burning problems that consumers have are recognised and solved by this government in Austria too. We have been discussing for years that there are problems with value added services. We're talking about problems in medical custody. Mrs State Secretary, there are many problems. You have told me in the budget response that you will coordinate consumer policy. – I can promise you one: We will measure you by whether the real problems that consumers in Austria have in the discussions of the VKI or the Chambers of Labour are actually addressed by this blue-black majority of governments. Mrs. State Secretary, I don't know if we're going to be excited. I can only assure you: We will monitor your activity very critically.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19557	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19582	Are you all right? [[towards SPÖ]] – Everything fits in with me again! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! From the point of view of young people, it is generally positive to assess that in times when savings are announced, the budget for youth work and youth promotion measures will remain the same or be increased. It is particularly important to stress that this federal government is a major concern for strengthening education and training as well as for science and research: over €8.2 billion for 2003 and €9 billion for 2004. The most important point I would like to mention in connection with youth is the tax exemption of income up to €14 500 per year. 200 000 people in our country benefit from this measure. This is especially true for young people with comparatively low incomes. We all know the entry-level wages, the salaries you get when you start working, and that is why we call for a change in the life earnings curve. Such a change is urgently necessary and justified! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the time of entry into the profession, their own costs for housing and family start-up are particularly high. Yes, in this period of life you would need a higher income! The content should then increase more flatly, so that the total amount of living income is not increased as a whole, but is redistributed. This model has already been implemented in Upper Austria, Styria and Vorarlberg for local and partly also for municipal staff. It is now up to us to anchor and implement this model through the cooperation of the social partners in the collective agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! This is one of the most important youth policy concerns, and I would ask all the political groups in this House to support this matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, another point that is particularly dear to me as a Red Cross employee: the recognition of voluntary work. It is known that thanks to the many thousands of volunteers in the various organizations of the federal government and the countries, a lot of money is saved. The government programme explicitly provides for support and recognition of voluntary work. To this end, an Austrian Voluntary Work Council is to be set up to serve as a voice tube for all voluntary work associations. In particular, facilitation must be provided in the field of the training of volunteers working in aid and rescue organisations. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is only in this way that we will be able to secure the voluntary nature of the budget, which does not burden it, in the long run.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19656	The next speaker is Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19674	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take up the image of my colleague Wöginger of voluntary activity as soon as possible, for the new image of age culture. Only man is happy at age, who can choose and realize a certain lifestyle for himself in the context of economic, health and social conditions. Science calls this the “Locus of control”, that is, the place within which one believes one can control one’s own way of life. And that might be even more important than clinical health. Professor Leopold Rosenmayer appeals with these sentences to a new age culture, and I believe that our society, our country, will not be able to give up on this ever-growing group of old people – and I count on that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If we don't get out of our minds this image that we designed as an old image, and you all know it from the media, that is, this couple sitting on the parking lot staring at him, then we're going to be in trouble. And I hear very often when I'm in seniors: I am no longer needed!, I am not going away from anyone!, and: I'd like to do something for someone! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... will soon no longer be able to afford it!]] These are words I often hear. What is not being practiced is returning. This applies to our mental and also to our physical abilities, to our self-confidence, to our mobility, our creativity, our vitality, our wit and our communication ability. We old ones will need each other, but we will also be very, very happy for the boys. And we can afford to do it mostly voluntarily. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The late-life man of the beginning of the 21st century. In the 19th century, a whole group of tasks and opportunities of social participation will have and should naturally benefit from the offers for education, health and care. These come from the public funds we need, of course. However, this will require massive personal input, namely commitment, volunteering of those concerned and a social network. We will organize this more and more often ourselves, otherwise any age culture will remain illusion. Culture can only form who produces something. It's just someone who's contributing. The time when the elderly were seen primarily as social burdens and care objects should be over.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19730	Mrs Hellerer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19748	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! My previous speakers, Mrs Grander and Mrs Scheucher-Pichler, have already pointed out the achievements of the EIA in family and women's policy accordingly. That's why I can do this now. This is a very important achievement of the Government. [[Wow-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to refer once again to the vote yesterday. Yesterday, in the context of the budget accompanying legislation, the ÖVP and FPÖ MEPs voted in favour of a pension reform which is really forward-looking, while the opposition was not prepared to take this course, although it has, of course, long recognized the precarious financial situation of Austrian social policy. [[Objection to the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – Yes, it is! I refer to this 1991 study, to the 1997 opinion of Rürup, where the experts have found exactly what we have to focus on today's pension system, that the main problem is the low age of retirement, that the change in the population structure plays a major role – and that, of course, the increasing life expectancy and the decline in birth have a corresponding impact. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] One does not have to be an expert to draw conclusions from it: that, ultimately, our young people, those who pay taxes and taxes – that is, the active generation – would have to bear a correspondingly high financial burden if nothing had been changed. The boys have really benefited from this pension reform! Since Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has voted in favour of youth policy in a very dedicated speech, I must say: Carriers Please do not contribute to this enormous uncertainty of youth, for all my colleagues have been overcrowded in the last few days just as I have with e-mails and calls that have been in it that 20-year-old – 20-year-old! – People say: Now I have to reconsider my life course because of the pension reform! [[Demonstrative applause with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Greens.]] Make sure the young people really think modern – and don't put their heads in the sand!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19823	I call Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19842	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! I think it's a good time for me to be a superior, coming from the heart of the region, in which once the nationalized industry was to reflect on the process of the last weeks. [[Abg. May. Drunk: No, don't!]] I really assign two great competences to the SPÖ: The SPÖ is highly competent in spending money, and it is highly competent in fear-making. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! What has been “down” in the Upper Styria in the last few weeks in the large industrial enterprises has nothing to do with politics from my point of view. If I had to make such a policy, ladies and gentlemen, that would be the time for me to say ade to politics. [[Demonstrative applause and yes-no-nothing at the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! For me, the last few weeks were almost a Déjà-vu experience. I have heard all the arguments actually in the mid-1980s, the argument: [[Abg. May. Trunk: You don't look that old at all!]] Everything not a problem in the state!, the argument: We have time! – I tell you what the outcome of the SPÖ reorganisation processes was. Work Donawitz: 1980 7,000 employees, 2000 2,000 employees. [[Call at the SPÖ:If it had gone to the ÖVP, they would not have had any more employees!]] In the city of Leoben in 1980 40,000 inhabitants, today 25 000. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] The operating pensions: with the approval of the FSG Boards not shortened, but abolished in the state lights! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Werkswohnungen zu thousandsen privatiert in der Obersteiermark! – This is your form of reorganisation! [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] An inaccuracy: Today we have four times as many socialist works councils as 1980 at the Donawitz site! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I will not tell you that this reorganisation process was not correct and important. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Broukal.]] That's the big difference to you. I say: He was right and important. We have highly profitable companies today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: Socialist Works Councils!]] But what bothers me Your policy: They don't carry it out consistently. From your own experience from the Obersteiermark you need to know that it was right to make the pension reform now. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion: Social is also to change something at the right time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e19970	No further words are available. This is the debate on Chapter 15: Social security, 16: Social security, 19: Family, generations, consumer protection, closed – without prejudice to the possibility to submit to the entire submission until the end of the consultations on 18 November. Proposals to be submitted on June. It is for me the four-party request of honourable Members Mag. Molterer, Dr. Gusenbauer, Scheibner and Dr. Van der Bellen proposed to postpone the discussions by tomorrow. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment to give a sign on this point. . I note that the request for adjournment has been adopted unanimously. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-12-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00022_d7e20003	I am still announcing the introduction of Amendment 149/A at today's meeting. Question No 540/J to 524/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Friday, 13. In June, 9 a.m., with the following agenda: Bundesfinanzgesetze 2003 and 2004 together with investments. The following lineage of the debate is envisaged: Chapter 30: Justice, then Chapter 40: Military affairs, then Chapter 63: Economy and work. This meeting is closed.
