ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e1553	The meeting was opened. I welcome all the ladies and gentlemen of the House. Objections to the Official Protocol of the 20th century Meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e1575	I will begin with a statement on objections to the 20th official protocol. Parliament resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, ==References====External links== Meeting of the National Council of 10 and 11. ==References====External links== Written objections have been raised against this official protocol by Klubobmann Dr. Cap. The text of these objections will be sent to all members of the Presidential Conference, i.e. all clubs. These objections were essentially based on the fact that the 24-hour time-limit for the Committee's report on the budget accompanying law had not been complied with, and the resulting consequences. I have carefully examined these objections and have not allowed them to do so, and I have explained them as follows: § 51 para. In conclusion, 4 GOG lays down the content of the Official Protocol. Accordingly, the Protocol has exclusive effect on the subject-matter of the negotiations, on the questions put to the vote, on the outcome of the votes and on the decisions taken. The objections raised by Mr Cap do not claim that the content of the official protocol is incorrect. It is not claimed that the items under negotiation, nor that the votes or decisions taken, have been wrongly recorded. The objections relate exclusively to other questions of the consultation and decision-making of the Government template concerning a 2003 budget-accompanied law as amended by the Committee's report. In particular, the meeting said that it was not permissible to put the Committee report on the agenda. I do not share this opinion, and I also note that such an objection is, at all events, immediately after the opening of the meeting – § 50 para. 4 GOG – to be asserted in the form of objections to the agenda. This has not happened. The Official Protocol is therefore valid in accordance with § 51 para. 3 GMOs as approved. I will, of course, provide the members of the President-in-Office with copies of this decision on Dr Cap's objections. ==References====External links== Meeting of 11. In June 2003, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and those Members who participate in the Europe Convention: Dr. Lichtenberger, Dr. Einm and Peter Schieder. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e1662	I refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room in accordance with Article 23 of the Rules of Procedure with regard to the negotiating items and their allocations. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e1750	Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e1769	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day-blocking period of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed for today’s meeting day, so that the following speaking times result in: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, Free 108 and Green 117 minutes. The speaking time agreement on members of the government and state secretaries was announced at the meeting yesterday. In essence, Minister Böhmdorfer, this means 20 minutes of speaking time. If you talk longer, this will be due to the speaking time of your group. We shall now proceed to the vote on this proposal for a President-in-Office's term of office. I ask all those ladies and gentlemen who agree to rise from the seats. – This is unanimously accepted. We can therefore proceed in this way. 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (60 of Supplements): The Federal Finance Act for 2003 and Appendices (112 of the Supplements) (resumption of the German Federal Financial Act). Negotiations postponed on June 2003) 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (61 of Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2004 and Investments (113 of the Supplements) (resumption of the German Federal Financial Act). Negotiations postponed on June 2003)
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e1820	I will now resume the negotiations on the 2003 and 2004 budgets. [[Justice]] Chapter 30: Justice
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e1844	First, the section entitled ‘Justice’, Chapter 30. I call Mr Jarolim. Preferred speaking time: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e1866	Good morning! Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, if I correctly interpret your statements on the Rules of Procedure, I think you will give us the right of content, but not for formal reasons. I believe that at all events – I do not know if Mr Spindelegger agrees to this – the Constitutional Court could examine this. I therefore believe that we have found a good basis for resolving this question. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget debate is always a way of drawing a summary and usually a certain outlook. I would say that it is relatively difficult today to give the chapter ‘Justice’ a prospect of the future. In this context, I should also like to address some fundamental aspects. Regrettably, in recent years, judicial policy has become very detrimental, I would say, the subject matter has developed. It is not rightly spoken of by many experts of a relapse into the age of the Inquisition. It is an age in which revenge is also practiced on judges. For example, I would like to take a look at what is going on at the Jugendgerichtshof, where it is unconstitutional – I am sure the Constitutional Court will have something to say in this respect too – the planning posts will be dissolved. Judges who are ineligible and irresistible are forced to make new applications. As I have just learned, it should be so that university-popular judges, such as Dr. Matschnig, who, in the discussion about the Jugendgerichtshof in the public on request – one must also say about it – have not forced herself into this discussion, as far as I can judge, into this debate, to appear for this institution, now in the orders. I don't want to discuss this any more, Minister of State. I would just ask you to do what is possible in your area – and it is your place of business, and therefore you should have full disposition of action – to help the public not to create the fatal look that judges, inseparable, impermissible judges who have made nothing but to argue in the sense of the case, are being punished in a way that from my point of view would simply be unconstitutional. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But it is also a time of inadequacy and waste, Mr. Federal Minister, and this at a time when you are at the same time constantly telling us that we need to be saved, in which, even with the most urgent needs, such as staff, in the execution of the sentence, the sense of punishment – of course, a lot can be done to reduce the crime rate in the future – is called into question. On the other hand – you can get back to the latest media reports – money is really thrown out of the window by implementing a project that no one dealing with matter is considered to be useful. The court building Riemergasse, which only recently – Mr. Drinkl knows – was renovated around 112 million schilling, I say now, which is listed and can therefore be used for nothing other than court buildings, is to be returned to the BIG. The judiciary and non-judicial staff must be transferred to the new judicial power, which nobody really wants. So the building will be empty. Finally, the media read that the well-known real estate dealer Plach has received a commission of €600 000. [[Abg. Gaál: This is immense!]] I'm unworded. – Mrs Bures will address this issue even more. I can only compare it with what was revealed yesterday by Minister of Finance Grasser. He has shown how he throws out the money with full hands at the window, where on the other hand, in the most urgent matters that are completely beyond dispute that we need it, to an extent that does no good to the welfare of this country. I can only say that this is going through like a red thread, through the Ministry of the Interior, through the Ministry of Education. If all the serious – Mr Minister, I do not know if this is known to you – Minister Gehrer – I am just saying this to show what the bouquet of flowers is that you present to the people – limit English education at a time of internationalization, then it is clear that you have completely lost all sight of sensible measures and of what is still reasonable to the country. [[Abg. Amon: That's not true!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They apologise that I come to the Jugendgerichtshof and its development again, but this is so exemplary because it is for the first time in the development of the democratic rule of law that a law is passed to influence the case law. If you read through the materials of the Jugendgerichtsgesetz, you will realize that the justification for the resolution of the Court of Justice is the case law of the Court of Justice. Since the Minister, the Ministry of Justice does not like the case law, this Court of Justice must be dissolved. What's behind that? – The argument is: There is too little extrajudicial case-law at the Jugendgerichtshof. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's what the prosecutor does!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now I ask you: Who, then, should actually enforce the extrajudicial compensation? – The prosecutor's office, of course. And the prosecutor's office – Mr Fekter, you have recognized that, at least that – is in your hands – you apologise – of the Federal Minister. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] And the Federal Minister has the power to order the prosecutor's office that it simply enforces the extrajudicial settlement. But no, there will be no instructions, but the Court of Justice will be dissolved. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's where your argument is wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you can really look into someone's eyes with all these nonsensees – and they're right-wing nonsenses – and say you're standing up to that, then, I have to tell you, it's about the tools of this country really very badly ordered! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I come to the conclusion: What you've offered is really unfortunate. As an example, I only mention the copyright law, with which you completely ignore the consumer interests, the interests of artists. I think there will really be a breath through this country when it is freed from this kind of governance. That is why we should look forward to this time. [[Abg. Scheibner: wishful thinking!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e1997	Without waiting for a speech, Mrs Fekter has already gone to the speaker's desk. – It is spoken and will receive the word for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2016	Thank you, Mr President, for the speech. – Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! You know, Mr Jarolim, if you start by that, so to speak, the Jugendgerichtshof is relocated, because you have an influence on the case law, and then I say in an interlocutory, that the extrajudgment is done by the public prosecutor and has nothing to do with the case law, then I think your argument has simply been wrong and gone into empty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] €809 million was the 2002 budget, €887 million, i.e. an increase of 9.6 percent, the 2003 budget and €875 million the 2004 budget. This is the magnitude of the chapter ‘Justice’. It is interesting to note that the ratio between staff expenditure and actual expenditure in the budget of the judicial sector has gradually changed towards expenditure on matters. For example, if in 1993 the staff expenditure was still 62 percent of the total budget and the actual expenditure was only 37 percent, the ratio was 2004: Staff costs 50.7 percent and labour costs in about 49.3 percent. Thus, physical and personnel expenditure are almost equivalent. This means that the legal burden in the justice sector is increasing in importance in relation to staff costs. This, of course, has led the judges' staff - you, ladies and gentlemen, will also have received this resolution - to protest this development and to protest against a further job reduction. I take this very seriously, Mr Minister, and therefore propose that we systematically examine where the judges could be relieved, where efficiency improvements would be possible in the judicial system, in particular in the courts, and how the case is distributed within the judicial system, whether there are regional differences, whether individual judges may be particularly burdened, while others may not be burdened at all. Only when we know this and know where efficiency gains can be achieved can we respond accordingly. I also believe that it is possible to obtain a discharge from the courts by means of legislative changes. For example, there is the proposal that our group supports, which could relieve civil courts by trying, in the event of damages after road accidents, not the ordinary courts, but to set up a conciliation body for an accelerated procedure. It is only when one does not agree with the Conciliation Body that one should follow the court path. Or, for example, we also think creatively about whether there are disputes between neighbors, whose large numbers are in the courts, might be solved by switching on mediation, where these people, who have not really agreed so far, may be brought to peaceful agreement without having to try the court. We are also currently meeting the limits of our capacity in criminal proceedings. We have therefore put in place a short-term measure in the Budgetary Support Act, Minister. In the medium term, however, we need to consider whether we should not further develop our system of penalties and consider new possibilities for criminal combinations. I support the fact that, for example, non-profit work is not only imposed as a measure in the version of the division, but also that punishment is combined with non-profit work. Think of the prominent case of the Winona Ryder in the American system. This had to pay a fine for a shop theft and also do non-profit work. Such a system in combination, for example, of fines and non-profit work, could also be introduced for our catalogue of fines. This would, for example, replace short-term. It has all failed when these people work for the public as if you were just behind bars for a few months. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Government Convention also states that we have to think about the imprisoned. I am in favour of letting them be released on condition that they are ordered to provide probation aid, under instructions and conditions. Unfortunately, this instrument is being used far too little. There is only voluntary detention care, but very rarely the order of the appeal aid by the court. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have already introduced this with the young people. I believe, however, that we should not leave the prisoners in prison until the last day, then open the doors and no longer care for them, but would be the more appropriate way to release them on condition that they are released in advance, however under conditions and supervision by means of probation aid. It is true that, in connection with the StPO reform, we will also get a new situation in the personnel sector, I admit, not for these two budgets, but only in the medium term. In the reform projects too, it will be necessary to think creatively how we can achieve efficiency gains in the field of justice without endangering our good system. Mr Jarolim said that there was no future outlook in the field of justice at all. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It depends on what you understand in the future!]] Mr Jarolim, please be careful, I'll give you one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We already have several very large-scale reform projects in the pipeline; that is, in the judicial area, major reforms are always being prepared in the medium to long term with science, with the experts before we get them into the house here. If you have no idea what's going on, I can only advise you: The judicial resort has an excellent homepage, look You enter, then you know what future prospects are! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In the Committee on Justice, we are about to deal with the Extraordinary Act, which is a major reform. We will have a major reform of the Criminal Code, and we will intensify the sexual criminal law with a view to adapting child pornography. We plan to hold a copyright survey in autumn, the rental law reform will be to be discussed intensively, and a subcommittee on the Criminal Process Reform Act is currently running, to the preliminary proceedings, which, as I believe, is a centenary work. I do not think that the pace of reform in the field of justice, which we have taken up for three years, is slowing down, it will continue. Minister! We will support you in this.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2084	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2103	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Good morning, Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As with every budget debate on the 'Justice' chapter, I should like to address my first words to the members of the judicial board, and to express our thanks and satisfaction for the cooperation with the Green Group, especially those who deal with judicial issues that come across us from the staff of the department. It does not always work as seamlessly as the opposition wishes, but that is in the essence of the construction that is so. Nevertheless, thank you very much, we hope that this style, which, at least since I was there, will continue to reign continuously in the future. I hope we can trust that this is how it continues, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The Minister also cooperates well!]] I agree directly with Mr Jarolim and Mr Fekter's remarks, whereby Mrs Fekter did not really do this, but only encouraged him to look at what is going on in the judicial sector. Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to other departments, it is true that the whole area of justice is different from, for example, the social resort or the school resort, because justice represents the third state power and otherwise it is not about ensuring the independence of a part of the department members. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: All believe they are different!]] That is why all the issues relating to staff savings, but also to savings in matters, are questions which may also be directly related to the independence of the case law, because the independence of the case law, Mr Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen, has something to do with the use of resources. Quality and efficiency can only be achieved if the appropriate working conditions – that is in the protest resolutions, Mrs. Dr. Fekter has already addressed, included – are present. The appropriate working conditions for legal institutions are at risk if the appropriate funds are not available. Federal Minister! I not only take these resolutions seriously, but they are also a warning for me at the moment, because the time is not yet advanced, that this warning would be unnecessary, because it is being presented with complete facts. In particular, I would ask you and the gentlemen and also ladies who are working in the judicial centre to take it as seriously as the opposition and also Mrs Fekter, according to their announcement. This is a very sensitive matter. I have said very often in discussions that it has actually become nothing worse, but it is talking too much about justice and the case law and making too much wind, and then there is always something wrong. Discussions on personnel and business savings are a very clear indication of this. I do not want to put anything under the control of anyone, but I ask everyone to take seriously the question of the danger of independence. This is not yet a matter of content, if you want it that way, material matter, but that can develop. Mr Minister, you have been in the Subcommittee for many hours on the reform of the criminal procedure. We have also experienced these warnings with regard to the plans or the government paper on the reform of the criminal procedure discussed in the subcommittee by the prosecutors. We are very busy discussing there, ladies and gentlemen. There are only a few of you members of this subcommittee, so I will explain this to you. This is a meeting in which, so to speak, the entire spiritual and content potential – in this case criminal and material knowledge – of the field of justice is combined. Once we were in the local VIII, and once we were sitting in the Federal Council meeting room. If something would happen, then this would be a no-good damage, so massive is there the embroiled competence represented. These are people who are independent in their valuations, not only because this independence is so to speak, but because they are independent university professors who do not act on the call of ministers, parties or someone else. The tenor in this debate is beyond the questions I have to address, Mr Federal Minister, always the question of the provision of human resources. Parliament, the National Council, cannot and will not – I consider myself so reasonable and responsible and I also appreciate the judicial committee – decide on reforms in which the financial, in the case of human resources, is not provided for the implementation of the reform. Mr Minister, we have already discussed this a number of times: You know that the Greens have been working for many years – you haven't been there for a long time since I didn't know your name yet – to reform the criminal procedure. [[Abg. May. Molterer: In the world!]] So this discussion is many years behind, is truly a discussion that goes on for centuries, namely from the 20th to the 21st century. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you been there in the world?]] – No, I wasn’t in the world yet, Herbert Scheibner, but during my studies I had to deal with it. You have the chance to dementate it, only the figures of the budget speak another language. There is no provision for the implementation of your own government template as far as the budget is concerned. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the government paper, it is said that 80 to 100 – the number up is open – prosecutors are more likely to be foreseen. This personal care should now be taken, for, as we know, not only does the prosecutors not just kiss, but they do not fall from heaven. This is a long training process. In Austria, judges and prosecutors have the same training, so it is identical. This is an appropriate and good training, although in certain areas there is a need for reform. This is a process that needs a legislative period preview. That is why the measures are necessary today. You can't say, no, this has a three-year legislature, maybe even longer, we'll see, but three years are planned, and then we'll see where the prosecutors come from. This is negligent action, which is indeed at risk of the reputation of Austrian legislation, in this case of case law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition to this, I would like to focus on the budget today on a few not less important points, but not so big points from the dimension. In addition to staff, it is always about the question: What is the point of the matter, is it what Austria once had a Europe-wide reputation for? We were such a pioneer in the field of electronization and the use of electronic means in the field of justice. We were very happy about this. We have always expressed our appreciation of this. Think of the basic and company book! But what has happened in the last two, two and a half years – not of about this covers exactly with the blue-black period of government? – Stagnation, there's nothing going on! I don't want to talk bad about what happened in the past, but I want to ask you to change something. Everyone who has to do with dishes knows that. That's like the Gendarmerie, you have something in common. If you come to a gendarmerie post or to a law firm, you sometimes feel like you're coming to 19th. ==References== In such institutions and law firms, it does not look everywhere, but often so. PCs, e-mail, access to electronics for any judge? – We are far from that, Minister of State! That's reality. The plans are one, the other is implementation. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Two more comments on proposals from the President of the Committee on Justice. I am curious about what the Federal Minister will say about this. In my opinion, it is very simple to understand the thought that justice is expensive – monetaryly – and that costs money, and that is why we shift certain tasks and parts of the case law to conciliation points. That sounds really simple. We're creating conciliation points, and we're no longer burdened with that. Yes, we are not in the sense of the budget, but the Austrian taxpayer and the Austrian taxpayer, that is, those people who need to know how to access the law, are the varnishes. According to the plans existing in relation to the Out-of-Court Law and in relation to rental law, the burden is then shifted precisely to the claimants. Minister Böhmdorfer, no one will be able to save you this accusation – and you yourself will not, because we need only take a look at the budget: Almost nowhere is the Federal Government's project implemented consistently, namely to finance the state by means of fees, as in the judicial department. The increase is 6 percent. Now you could say: Great, the state makes serious and the citizens pay! – In this case, this is nothing but a hidden, hidden tax increase because the Austrian applicants have to bear the costs. I say now, with the full scope of what this re-transmission or relocation of the monetary volume means, who carries where, how much and what costs to the parties and thus to the hands of lawyers who earn with it, the following: This is something that has been evident since your ministry. You are a lawyer, and I do not hate your lobbyism, but please, Minister, stop exaggerating with it, because at some point the limit of embarrassment is reached, and it also threatens to be exceeded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2208	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is now speaking. Desirable speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2227	Ladies and gentlemen! This budget is the continuation of the restructuring policy, which has already been launched in the previous legislative period and for the first time since 30 years has also led to a lower re-indebtedness than in recent years, because the debt burden of course also leads to infinitely high taxes on taxpayers. We need to remember that 100 billion schillings – still expected in Schilling – have to be spent annually to cover the interest rates of public debt. I believe that this budgetary policy needs to be continued. Of course, this also affects the individual areas, including the judicial community, but it is still necessary to say that, Madame Stoisits, the level of justice in general – that is, I mean all areas – is very high in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Not only the legal system has a very good reputation, for which it is certainly to be thanked to the officials of the ministry, but also organisationally a great deal has happened, there has been improvements. There are still such firms that you have spoken about, which you assume are from the previous century, but these are very few. We are at the forefront of Europe with all our judicial policy, and I believe that should be said before. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In particular, the Austrian judicial system is aware that there is a very rapid settlement of proceedings. Especially the criminal proceedings are always in the public's crossfire. The Minister will correct me if it is not true, but I believe that about 80 per cent of cases will be done within three months, and only 20 per cent, if they are not even fewer, will need a longer time. However, this is not always the fault of prosecutors or judges, but it is often experts who delay such procedures that are also blocked because of labour overload. The expert fees are not very high in Austria, and therefore there are time and again delays. But I think we can already say that we can see ourselves with our judicial system in many other countries. It is right – all my previous speakers have already done – that the judicial system is falling and standing down with the staff problem, with the scarce or not scarce personnel resources. When I think about the plan of the StPO reform, Mr Minister, I must say that my previous speakers have also expressed concern about whether we can carry out this reform project with these scarce personnel resources at all. So have you had so far. Unfortunately, they cannot yet prove in the budget that, if the law comes into force, we will have enough prosecutors to implement this law. I believe that we have to think about it now and we cannot say that in 2007 this law will come into force, until much water continues to run down the Danube, but we must already set the course at such a long training time that we have. I would like to say to Mrs Fekter's comments: It has made proposals on how to simplify court proceedings. To this end, I would like to say: In recent years, a lot of new legislative projects have been carried out, and I think that one should stop a little and be limited to the internal reorganisation of the courts and prosecutors, because there are still many old structures that are older than some of the laws with which we still have to work. I think that this would be a very strenuous work, perhaps more strenuous than creating a new law, but a very rewarding task. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Jarolim, I believe that you are really – no, I am convinced of that! – go too far, if you accuse the Minister that, because he does not fit the case law of the Jugendgerichtshof, he has transferred the Jugendgerichtshof to the Landesgericht. It is true, of course, that there must be no pressure on judges or revenge on judges at all. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I also believe that Mr. Strasser, Minister of the Interior, was significantly involved in this!]] Of course, judges must remain inviolable, independence must be guaranteed in all cases. But this argument cannot be used to say that outdated institutions must always exist. The transfer of the Jugendgerichtshof has not been negatively assessed by the population at all, but you have carried this problem to the public and have added the corresponding media pressure and a certain distortion. That is why this whole shift has been seen in an unfavorable light. That, I believe, must be admitted, Mr Jarolim! We have long discussed why it was necessary or appropriate to relocate the Jugendgerichtshof. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Inappropriate!]] There were cells with 9 m2 for two people. Do you really encourage a youth or two young people to spend a whole day on 9 m2? We heard there was only one curtain between the toilets. There were no modern sanitary facilities at all. On the one hand, you have excited yourself that there are toilets in the correction cell, which is now different, as in Italy, but on the other hand, you want to allow such obsolete institutions to remain in the Jugendgerichtshof. In addition, thousands of square meters in the National Criminal Court have been free. Let us leave the church in the village, and let us also judge things objectively! But I also see that it is very difficult to get rid of party policy completely when it comes to justice. However, one may be a little objective if one is a Member here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Stoisits, you meant that independence also depended on the means available to a judge – because independence is only about the judge – which computer, which space he has, and so on. I do not think that independence should be pushed too far. The judge remains independent even if the files are storming in his room and if he does not have a computer at his disposal. If there are too few personnel, this is a question of whether it is not an intervention into fundamental rights, whether it is not a refusal to do so if one does not come to his decision. This is something else, but independence is really not at risk if there are obsolete structures in the courts. Nevertheless – I have already mentioned that – I am in favour of once you researched the internal court. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The budget debate also always provides an opportunity to talk about material things that are going on in the field of justice. What is being done on forthcoming projects in the field of justice has already been led by Mrs Fekter, I would like to mention in particular – and I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is planning to initiate a home residence law and a home contract law. Almost everyone of us knows how helpless someone is who is in need of care who is old, who comes to a home where often not even the basic structures are regulated and not even the fundamental rights are held. It is high time that the federal government here, by means of certain regulations, understood also the countries that it is not enough to provide only a home without also linking certain rights with it. I mean, we owe this minimum standard to those people who are sick in a home or want to spend their evening in a home. Minister! I would like these two laws to come to Parliament as soon as possible or to be reviewed, so that there really is a big step forward for the old and in need of care. In addition, I also hope, like my previous speakers, that there will continue to be good cooperation between the judicial body and Parliament. But I assume that is a matter of course.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2302	Mr Böhmdorfer is now speaking. 20 minutes speaking time. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2321	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to take this opportunity first to comment only briefly on the issue of the Jugendgerichtshof and to comment later on the other topics – I have written exactly on them. At the same time, however, I am also grateful for the recognition and praise for the officials of the Ministry of Justice. I would therefore like to comment immediately on the question of the Jugendgerichtshof, because so many young people are here who have heard the wrong information. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity for the same young people to get the right information. [[Call to the Greens, "Yours!]] That's very important to me. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This Federal Government has set itself the goal of focusing its attention on the enforcement of youth sentences and on the jurisdiction of young people and bringing about significant improvements in these areas. We have also done so, and the privileges of youth jurisdiction and the execution of the youth penalty have been extended to two more years, including 20 years old and 21 years old. It is now true that young people unfortunately commit their crimes in groups - the lawyer says "in gangs", that is, unfortunately, in these areas there is an increased injunction of the arrest, because the investigating judge must immediately carry out separate hearings in the case of group offences. So there is an increased need for detention. By extending the privileges of youth jurisdiction by two further years, the detention room in the Jugendgerichtshof in the Rüdengasse has become too small. We need an average of 170 detentions, but there are only 40 cells in the old institution in Erdberg at the Jugendgerichtshof. These 40 cells are not 9 m2, but in part only 8.1 m2. Unfortunately, the President of the Jugendgerichtshof, Dr. Jesionek, has not informed the Ministry that, for this reason, bunk beds have been placed in the prison cells and thus contradicted the ratio of covering and size of the Anti-Folter Convention. We had to change this condition. We therefore had to look for another place for these prisoners, because it was also unreasonable to transport these prisoners constantly from other institutions through the city. This was also a security risk, which is why these relocations had to be carried out to the National Criminal Court. There two tractors were rebuilt, there are 170 prisons, better sporting facilities, better leisure facilities, better workshops and better medical facilities. Since almost every journalist was in the new and the old institution, one has also discovered a difference: The tableware in Erdberg was bigger than the tableware now in the Josefstadt. But there's a difference: The Tischlerei in Erdberg was not in operation, the one in Josefstadt is in operation. You will find, if you think all the components – and there are still many, many more, including economic – no reason that does not speak for the relocation of youth justice into this new environment. The Juvenile Courts are now also active for the 20 and 21 year olds, which is also a privilege to the adults who have committed punishment. – This only to the Jugendgerichtshof. If there are any further arguments, I would like to comment on that. I'll deal with the rest later. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2366	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. You wish 5 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2385	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to join with the commendative words for the work of officials of the Ministry of Justice, but I would also like to say, Mr Federal Minister: Of course, I do not find these praises for you – and there is hardly anyone in the country who finds these praises for your activity. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes!]] They are rightly among those ministers who are in the crossfire public criticism. I would like to remind you of the following: They will go into history as a minister of distrust, six mistrusts have existed in the last legislative period alone, in this short period. And these were rightly brought in. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: This is not a special performance! You can put one every week!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: They didn't find a majority!]] I think you can also say why this happened: In the area of justice, which is primarily a matter of discourse, in such a sensitive area as consensus policy, you do the opposite, Mr Minister of Justice. Your judicial policy is characterized by expert hostility, your judicial policy is characterized by discourse. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Where and how? What kind of “expert hostility ”?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I like to grab the place. A good example of this is the destruction of the Jugendgerichtshof, which you mentioned earlier. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: There are other topics than the Jugendgerichtshof!]] Mr. Federal Minister, it is not about the transfer of the Jugendgerichtshof, but about the fact that you have broken down a proven system. I really think you're making yourself up here today and saying: One had to settle there because the prison conditions were so terrible. Federal Minister! The conditions of detention in the Jugendgerichtshof were so terrible, because you have locked the funds for three years to carry out necessary work there. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Monument protection is available at the Jugendgerichtshof! You can't do what you want!]] They are to blame for the bad conditions for young people, but now they are here saying: I have nothing else left – that is immense, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another example regarding the demolition of the Jugendgerichtshof: The training conditions, the working conditions of young people have greatly deteriorated due to their actions. Since yesterday we also know from a letter that these people themselves are being removed as important programs as anti-aggression training from you, because it is not necessary. – This is not a good way to deal with this matter. They have carried out the demolition of the Jugendgerichtshof against all expert opinions and against all reason. That's your expert hostility! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another example of your anti-expertism will be addressed by colleagues of my group, Mrs Stoisits has already mentioned it. The amendment to the Extraordinary Act is also contrary to the measure we decided unanimously here in May, namely mediation. They go a completely wrong way here, and this will lead to massive deterioration of legal access, especially in matters of housing law. There is also no clear reason why you want to change a proven system, namely the dispute system, which is aimed at giving everyone access to justice unbureaucratically and independently of their income, without high cost – unless you operate lobbying policy for lawyers. This is at the expense of the citizens, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Perhaps one more point, Mr Federal Minister, because of course there is also the discussion about this: A Minister of Justice becomes a real estate actor. I read to you from the magazine “FORMAT”: Böhmdorfer's sale. Justice's making Kassa. Böhmdorfer has a number of German real estates at dumping prices. - Quote. Minister Böhmdorfer obviously beats these properties with high mediation commissions. The refurbishment of the Riemergasse court building has devoured 150 million, although you knew you were going to settle down. The rent will be in the City Tower, where you settle to be a cygly higher, the operating costs will be twice as high there. Except for spouts. And who's the profiteer? I would like to remind you that, when it came to concluding this rental contract, your resort had already been in contact with the construction company in June 2001, it was all under the roof and trade, and suddenly in September 2001 – that is, three months later – a ministerial friend, namely the real estate trustee Plech, who was a broker – but it was nothing more to make, because the contract was under the roof and trade – still € 607,476 at the expense of taxpayers. [[Call the SPÖ: A scandal!]] Federal Minister! Therefore, you really do not need to wonder that you are the minister of distrust and will go into history as such.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2527	Now I shall grant Mr Magistrate's power. Donnerbauer the word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2545	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (pointing to the microphone at the speaker's desk) put higher! You hear badly!]] If you have listened to the previous contributions to the opposition – including your colleague, Mr Cap – yesterday and today, you will be calling for more money than planned and more money than available in all the areas discussed so far. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Bad text!]] Now we are dealing with the “Justice” chapter, where expenditure increases significantly, by 9.62 percent in 2003 and over both years, 2003 to 2004, by a significant 8 percent – and again you are not satisfied. You should not take the word “opposition” too literally. In the sense of our Countries should understand opposition in such a way that constructive cooperation and recognition of successful and jointly implemented projects should also be possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Sometimes I have the impression at all with my colleagues in the opposition that, although they have many new ideas for money spending in all areas, they either have no concepts on how to bring this money back in, or what I think is much more, that they do not trust in bringing these recipes that they have in their drawers to the citizens as well. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen from Social Democracy, we and our country have had a very sad experience for decades, as they imagine the financing of ever higher and partly useless expenditure, namely by making debt and by moving problems to future generations. But that's not our recipe. We would rather have saved ourselves and our country in recent years. Today, however, it is not a question of stopping new expenditure from new sources of revenue, but rather of exploring tasks with imagination and in the interests of the country, its citizens and taxpayers, and, above all, of providing even better quality, even greater efficiency at lower costs. The same applies to justice. In this sense, a number of important reforms have already been achieved in recent years. I am thinking only of the reforms on housing law, on civil proceedings, on e-commerce, but also on the use of electronic and modern means in justice, where Austria, as has already been implemented today, is in the forefront in Europe and also in the world. In these areas there has been a great deal of success. But there are also very big projects in front of us: Reforms in the criminal code such as the reform of the Extraordinary Law, the improvement of victim protection, measures to speed up proceedings or also the improvement of the legal situation of domestic residents, as mentioned today, and much more. I recommend to Mr Jarolim, who, I believe, is no longer in the hall – but I will tell him personally afterwards – the study of the government programme, for if he says there are no future prospects in the judicial system, please read it. For more than three pages, the government programme lists very many particularly important future prospects for justice. We will implement these together with you or without you. Mr Jarolim – and this is done to ensure that this will not work together, as it actually is in the judicial system – has limited itself to being polemic today and talking about an age of inquisition that comes back to us. I can only say this, Mr Jarolim, that you obviously did not make the effort to be present mainly at the meetings of the Subcommittee. They've rather shone by absence. Your contribution was polemics, your contributions were regular debates and not content contributions. In the case of these subcommittees on Criminal Procedure – let me talk out! – has been very constructively spoken with many experts. [[Abg. May. Worm: You have not spoken!]] The resumé was by no means as Mr Jarolim remembers very unilaterally that this would be a return to the age of the Inquisition, but that a regulation of the pre-processual procedure would require urgent, legal action and that the proposals that exist would in principle be the right way, although perhaps in some areas it would be necessary to amend and also involve the opinion of the experts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I hope – and I may call on colleagues from the opposition – that you will return to the path of joint constructive work in the field of justice in the previous years. Instead of doing pure polemics here, you should work with us on the necessary reforms. Our country and its citizens would thank you. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2626	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2644	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the plenary! The fact that justice policy is to be an extraordinary body beyond other political materials has already been stressed. As a historian, I see the third violence in the state, the independence of justice, the cost-effective, non-privileged access to law as a real civilian achievement that we really needed for thousands of years. Against this background, Mr Minister and Mrs Fekter, I believe that the development of staff expenditure in relation to the development of the cost of property costs is extremely worrying. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is not only the quality of the case law, but also the confidence of the people in the rule of law as such. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Both are available!]] Yes! – If this is put at stake, if we are very sparsely dealing with the legal systems for reasons of savings, then this is the result of the fact that overall social status in terms of legal certainty and trust in the rule of law is no longer guaranteed in the quality in which we are the eighth-richest country in the world – I emphasize: as the eighth country! – must do. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: increase by 9.6 percent!]] - That's just ahead. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Let's do it too!]] I should like to give three examples: The demands are increasing, as you have said, Mr Minister, yourself, and there are laws in preparation, and the increased effort is also human nature. This applies to the whole issue of criminal reform. We have not yet provided for 2006, a year in which additional judges and prosecutors are necessary. Without that, there will be a purely police investigation, and this is a setback quite similar to the status quo. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You yourself may know district courts that have a rate of utilization of more than 336 percent, such as in the Leopoldstadt. Please, how are legal quality still to be guaranteed? The very serious, very good work in the resort is not very useful. On the spot, we need sufficient staff and adequate equipment to ensure that citizens are properly informed. It was also mentioned the duration of the proceedings; I think it was Mr Partik-Pablé. This is certainly no longer guaranteed in the near future. In the field of criminal institutions, personnel savings will also be very negative in terms of social policy. If personnel are saved there, the resocialisation rate will be lower. The personal claim of the prisoner or the female person or youth there is essential. A personal claim can be replaced by nothing. If one reduces the number of care stations, there will be a step backwards. This involves more crime, which in turn leads to an increase in costs. These comments are to be seen as a great plea – a legal word – for a better dosage beyond any spar volume, beyond the argument of Mrs. Partik-Pablé towards debt reduction. In the case of justice, it is not about the reduction of debt, but about building up and maintaining the principles of rule of law. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now I come to an essential detail area, which is entirely in line with the other savings policy in the judicial area and which is simply exploiting, namely what real estate placements for the justice sector have brought to the house on a total basis. My predecessor Bures has already pointed this out. Mr Minister, I have addressed this problem in your inquiries. Mr Minister, please, here on the ground, here in this House, on the occasion of this budget debate, where it is about millions, justify the fee or the conciliation framework that you paid to Mr Ernst Karl Plech in June 2002 in the amount – I quote now from the answer you have gratefully sent to me – of € 607 476, plus 20 percent VAT. This was paid for an activity that was in no way financially paid off. In your reply to question 265/AB, Mr Federal Minister, you informed me that the City Tower Vienna object had already been presented to you by the establishment company Porr in July. In September – that's what you're asking – the intermediary then took up the plan and mediated something, and that's the legal point. Read below the real estate law or the stand and exercise rules for real estate agents, BGBl. No. 297/1996! It says that mediation activity is given only if the object is new if the object is not known. But the object had already been presented in July, and in October you paid a person something for it to convey. In my opinion, this is not only a violation of the rules of law, according to the brokers' regulation, but it is highly worthy of a review by the Court of Auditors. Minister! They spend the money on one side generously or with full hands. This is a million amount in Schilling. You pay a million for a mediation, and then answer me to my question that it was cheap because it was only 1.5 months rent, which normally means brokers with this rental volume. – That's right, comparatively it was cheap, only it was completely superfluous! But that's not what you're saying. That was completely unnecessary! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I got an extra extract from the stand and exercise rules for real estate agents. In general part, it is referred to under § 1: “... the first mention of a previously unknown interested person... ” or an object. - That's what it's all about! In July it was known, and in October it was greatly increased, and the commission then paid you in June 2002. I want to know: Is the lease already signed, because in itself an advance in this size is not guaranteed at all? Mr Minister, you owe us more than one answer, because you owe us a justification, and I think you will remain guilty of it. In view of what else happens to austerity measures in the judicial resort, where they are in prisons, where they play in the local courts, this is not only a white increase, but in my opinion – and for that I stand – even a judicial scandal.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2734	A second speech was made by Dr. Böhmdorfer, Federal Minister for Justice. Time remaining: 16 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2752	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You are right, Madam President, I am responsible to you for answer and accountability, and I am happy to give it to you, in particular on this question, because not only errors but also incorrect reports are being spread on this issue. I don't know how you correctly answered the request, as you say, to interpret, in fact, the timeout was like this: This project was offered to the Ministry of Justice in June 2001. At that time, a broker's exclusive order existed. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== It was presented to me on 31 August. August 2001 the first contact with the builder, manufactured by the construction company. I emphasize: Not with the broker, but with the builder. You seem to have been wrong. Then it has countless discussions... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] You misinterpreted it! – Then we conducted a series of meetings, and the lease agreement was signed on 22. February 2002. In other words, it was necessary, correct and ultimately successful to cooperate with the broker in the context of an exclusive contract. At the commission level, I am also accountable to you, which I will be happy to give you. – The fact is that according to the legal provisions of the brokers, three months' rent would be entitled to commission. It has succeeded in halving this commission claim. It's a big sum. I'm right that you should and should question this high sum. But I'll tell you one thing: You have to see the broker commission differently, like the Supreme Court. This says that a broker commission only takes place in a successful mediation – can I talk out?! – is to be paid, and at the same time – the Supreme Court says – constitutes compensation for many other failed mediation attempts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures]] This is not a payment like a doctor's or a lawyer's, which you must definitely do for work done, even if it is not successful, but that's another form of billing. This is the case in the system, and the Minister of Justice and no one else can change it. This commission was halved in the present case. However, this sum – I admit – is high. But I can't change it. I can't put out the laws if it's necessary to pay such a commission. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] May I continue? – To the project itself: It was necessary to search for an ideal environment for three dishes. The monthly rental rate that we paid for the old buildings separated by a road – which one building was built in 1887, the other in the Riemergasse 1908 – was 12.6 € per square meter – and 13 € per square meter we pay now. That's, please, no significant difference. The infrastructure is much better: There are two metro lines, four tram lines, one bus line, five high-speed lines and one traffic hub at the new building. At the old building there is only one street and a taxi stand. The year of construction of the new building is 2003, and the building is therefore modern accordingly. We've been planning in the final phase. There are safety facilities for underfloors, a underground garage, eight lifts, air-conditioned rooms and a corresponding lighting – that with approximately equal rent per square meter. I would ask you to accept that this project was and is highly economically useful.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2819	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2837	Mr President. Federal Minister! This was a typical example, as scandalisation policy, which unfortunately God is constantly running by the Greens, fails – whether it concerns the interceptors or whether it is a different subject, such as that discussed here today. Do you believe that the Ministry of Justice is suddenly not a customer and does not have to pay a commission? Faith You're really saying that the Ministry of Justice is just because it's the ministry, it's suddenly getting exceptions? Not at all! It's just like that in business! But if you, Mrs. Dr. Moser, have no idea, I can't help you. The Minister of Justice has clearly explained this. The fact that this change will lead to an improvement is entirely out of proportion to the presence of your predecessor Stoisits, who says that the judicial system is completely obsolete in terms of premises, one feels in the 19th century. ==References== Now new premises are coming, but now the new premises do not fit, even though the rent is the same. You see for yourself: All of this goes into the void or you contradict yourself! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There seems to be an disturbed relationship between the Greens and the Minister of Justice, for there have so far been seven applications for distrust against him from the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Justice!]] Let me tell you which of the seven reasons are for this! You don't get two together, I guarantee you. That's really how it is! If one tries to make politics today by simply applying one of the most important and strongest instruments here in this House, namely the mistrust request, only because something does not fit, because the Minister of Justice, who is a party-freer, is a friend of Jörg Haider or was his lawyer or nominated by the liberals, if one does so as a reason to make seven applications for distrust – they all went into void, they did not really have something to offer in terms of content – then this proves a disrupted relationship. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I call you another subject on which you have believed that the judicial system or the case law is collapsing and the public has the biggest problems: the merger of courts. I can still remember what this was an apparent scandal, as was scandalized by the Greens, but also by you, the Social Democrats. Nothing was scandalous about it at all. The merger of the courts was very useful. There are, of course, some of the persistence, that is quite clear, and every innovation is observed a little skeptical first. But I hear not only from the population, but also from the judges that the gathering of the courts is a very sensible measure. Today everything is fine, but a few years ago it was scandalized as if that meant the collapse of justice. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Do you believe that the blocking of the Commissioners is also good? The blocking of the Commissioners by Strasser – a word on this!]] I call you another subject that is really interesting, but which does not have any real problems in itself: the increasing number of arrests. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, more prisoners cost more money. But the fact that there are increasing arrests is nothing negative for me. It is simply a fact that exists because of the open borders. Of the new prisoners, half are foreigners. The fact that success is constantly being achieved in drug policy and, above all, in the drug arrest conducted by the Ministry of the Interior, leads to an increase in detention rates. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Why does Strasser block the Commissioners?]] If they get up, we need a new prison. That does not mean a collapse, ladies and gentlemen. It is, of course, the social-political mirror. If you know that 20 to 25 percent of prisoners are drug dependent, you have to think about it. [[Abg. May. Worm: That's what we're saying all the time!]] I turn back to the Greens, but also to parts of the Social Democrats! I remember when you were at the beginning of the election campaign for the release of drugs. [[Abg. May. Worm: We didn't say that!]] Please, if 20 to 25 percent of prisoners are drug dependent, it is clear that there is a close link between drug dependence and delinquency. You have to think about it! That's important, and there's just this "haash-out-the-tabaktrafik ideology", which you represent, probably isn't the right thing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The reform of the criminal procedure will certainly be a big throw. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A throwaway!]] The Minister of Justice is a reform minister, he attacks hot iron. I believe that our judicial system enjoys an excellent reputation. Let us think of the reputation of justice in countries such as Belgium or Italy. The Austrian judicial system enjoys an excellent reputation, and it will certainly remain that way and will be improved by the reforms.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2960	There are now two actual corrections to the call. First of all, Mrs Moser has referred to an actual correction. Mrs Colleague, you know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes of speaking time; wrong facts, right facts, no appreciation! Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2984	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker just claimed in his input sets, I'm scanning. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes! You can't dispute that!]] – That contradicts the facts! [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is not an actual correction!]] The Minister himself stated in his statement that it was not a mediation activity, but that it was very much paid for mediation commissions. Your statement is wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3035	Your statement was a speech and not an actual correction, because “scandalising: yes or no?” is a value judgment. But the boundaries are flowing. The next actual correction is made by Mrs Bures. You too know the Rules of Procedure. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3060	Mr President. Mr Federal Minister, you have said here that, under the broker commission scheme, the broker would have granted three months' rent to commissions and that this sum of about 10 million schillings you paid, this broker commission has been halved anyway. I'll put it right: It is true that, according to the Realtor Act, since it is a temporary rental contract, only two months' rent to broker commissions – maximum- Limit! – are possible, and that's what your friend has used to the full. Stay with the truth, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3098	In turn, Mr Böhmdorfer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3116	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, Mrs Bures: He – Commercial Plech – has received a month and a half rent from commissions, which is a fact. So, anyway, less than he would have been allowed. We agree on this now. [[Abg. Bures: You claimed that three months' rent would be granted to him, that was the untruth!]] The second, Mrs. Dr. Moser, is the following. In the answer to the question – and I am very happy to clarify this error of Mrs. Dr. Moser – it says: “The City Tower Vienna became known to the Federal Ministry of Justice as a rental object for the Vienna Commercial Court... in July 2001.” In July 2001 he became known. He became – and I add that now, that clears everything – known to us by the broker. It's all clear. And the broker had an exclusive order back then. – That’s just by the way, although that’s no longer essential at all. I'm telling you one thing: We have been looking for a substitute for the LGfZ Vienna because it is currently being rebuilt in the Palace of Justice. This made it known that we also wanted to build another court, the BG Landstraße. And then a real estate agent just said: I have an ideal offer for all three dishes in modern surroundings, with ultimately approximately equal rental height per square meter. This was just the occasion to enter into closer negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3151	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. It is welcome for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3169	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Federal Minister Böhmdorfer, you have really brought justice to justice. Your judicial policy is marked by two features – I have already told you – of being locked up and imprisoned. Locked by the district courts, you locked up the Jugendgerichtshof! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] Many district courts were locked up, and the Jugendgerichtshof was detained. And to lock up: The ‘profile’ recently stated: “Less perpetrators, more prisoners” – you know very well, you, who are dealing with criminal law policy, would need to know how dramatic the number of prisoners has increased last year. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Because there are grounds for arrest! Escape danger! 50 percent of foreigners!]] This is a dramatic state, because of course it is a reflection of society! How many people are locked in, that says something about the image of society. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 50 percent foreigners!]] Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, we have an increase of 6 per cent in the number of prisoners and an increase of 7.5 per cent in the detention centre. These are numbers that alert! I would also like to say something to you, Mr Mainoni, because you came back with the atrocities propaganda, with this clause: ‘Haschish in Trafiken’. – No one ever asked! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Yes, Mrs. Pittermann, I can remember that very well! She was very liberal!]] But what would be very important and necessary: You yourself said that a lot of addict addicts are in prisons. That is why it would have been very important and necessary to further develop the principle that we in Austria have done very well, namely the principle of “therapy instead of punishment” and to put in place appropriate measures. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is available!]] Then the prisons might not be that full. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The prisons are full. And what's your answer to that? In the ‘profile’, read: “The Minister of Justice is planning a new prison for 400 prisoners.” – That’s your answer! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: If necessary! You want to let them all run?]] No resocialisation measures, no assistance, no changes to make this state another. This is tragic, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since so many young people are already being detained, so many young people are sick because addicts are sitting in prisons, talk to the judicial guards, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé. They also have good contacts with the judicial guards. Mr Pendl will have a lot to say about this. The law enforcement officers keep telling us: We cannot carry out the action as it would be! We do not have the resources to do so, we can only lock up, we can no longer take action as it would be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, They are not only about locking up, not only about locking in, but also about blocking away: In fact, many young people will be locked up as early as 4 p.m.! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: This is a detention centre!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Then you have to turn off the wheel, the wheel service, but you don't want that! Ask Mr Pendl if he would like to turn the wheel off!]] If you are already pursuing a prison policy, a law-and-order policy, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, you should at least provide the appropriate personnel resources! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your former colleagues from the judiciary, for example, went to the public yesterday. Your colleagues from the Salzburg Richtership, of the Styria have said: We fear that we will lose quality in the judicial system if the cuts that are planned actually occur, i.e. a reduction of 10 percent, as it is set in the budget for 2003/2004. And this is a problem because another problem within justice and especially for the people seeking justice is longer procedural periods. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Edlinger shouldn't have left that high debt, then it would be better for us, honourable Member!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé) Stay honest, Mrs. Colleague!]] At the end of my speaking time, because he has already been mentioned several times, I would like to report to the Subcommittee on the reform of criminal proceedings. There the president of the trade union public service of prosecutors and judges, the Tyrolean Klaus Schröder, spoke and he found clear words. He found very clear words! The first was the 10 percent reduction. You were there, Mr. Donnerbauer. I didn't hear you spoke, but please. Schröder said the following. It has been a matter of taking advantage of how to shape the personnel situation when the criminal process reform is coming as planned. Mr Schröder was at the time of the negotiations with the Minister of Finance on 3 March. On April 1, when it came to the increase in staff – or non-reduction – in the area of justice. There were your officials, Minister of Finance Böhmdorfer, at the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Finance said to the negotiators: There's nothing! Do what you want! Cut it out of your own flesh! There's nothing for it. And Schröder goes on to report: If you were there, when the representatives of the Ministry of Finance of section head Fellner turned down the judicial department and said something like this: Slightly with your personal wishes! Do what you want, then you have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that was shocking! I agree with Dr. Schröder's statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3358	Mrs Franz has now come to speak. She wishes a speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3377	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! We have heard a lot now – that is why I would like to give a positive example. Modern justice is understood as a service to citizens. And this service for the citizen is particularly maintained in the parole aid. I would now like to take this part of the judicial system out of the question. I would therefore like to take this area out because it seems to me particularly important for young people, even in view of the fact that many young people are sitting in the gallery today. This parole aid is provided by the ‘restart’ association throughout Austria and does not mean monitoring but support. It helps to find housing and work, to deal with offices and authorities and plays an essential role in reintegration into society. This association “Restart” has cared for around 150,000 people during the 40 years of its activity. And you hear and marvel: About 80 percent of these were never punished again. That cost savings and quality do not exclude each other, proves this association, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. Expenditure in this area amounts to around €28.4 million in 2003. Although this means a minus of around 2 per cent compared to 2002, there is a slight increase in 2004. For cost savings. It has been shown that the care during the trial period is caused by a probationary helper cost of just under €10 daily. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Turn around, Mrs. Colleague!]] In contrast, the tenfold is spent for the care and guard in prisons per prisoner, namely exactly 100 €. This is a good example of a clear cost savings, and the quality is not too short, because a probationist does not condemn the client, but provides him with trust, hold and support. These figures make it clear that the way away from the imprisonment and at the time of probation is a real one. That is why our aim is to release prisoners early in the event of minor penalties and to put them under the protection of the probationists. Another goal – that has already been said by Mrs. Dr. Fekter – is the diversification, i.e. the placement of non-profit services as a diverse measure. This is also a means of prevention, and it is a new offer by combining this division with a penalty, for example with a fine. I would also like to welcome this opportunity. In 2002, nearly 1 300 cases were reported in the “Restart” association, with 70 percent of suspects’ benefits being completed positively. Doing benefits means an opportunity for the suspect, but this is also an opportunity for our society. Unfortunately, this diverse measure is still far too little practice.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3416	Mrs Mandak has now spoken. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3435	Mr President. High house! I would like to join my previous speaker's statement. The association “Restart” is doing excellent work. It is only a pity that there are far too few redundancies in this respect. 80 percent of the prisoners put off their punishment until the last day! There would be a possibility here to release from prison earlier and, with appropriate care, to enable the former prisoners to really re-start their lives. As a youth speaker I am particularly concerned about the incarceration of young people. Their number increased by 66 percent between 2000 and September 2002 for the under 18 year olds and by 35 percent for young adults, which is up to 21 years old. This must be imagined, under conditions such as the resolution of the Jugendgerichtshof. Mr Böhmdorfer said earlier. My colleague, Mr Térezija Stoisits, has already criticised this in detail. The fact is, however, that certainly not the setting up of bunk beds in the cells was the decisive reason for closing. I think that the reason is rather to look for a very critical, very unpleasant, very visionary and repeatedly speaking President Jesionek, who repeatedly pointed out the abuses and repeatedly called for a visionary case law and a corresponding sentence for young people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The main causes of the increase in the number of prisoners are known so far. Of course, the reduction of criminality from 19 to 18 years of age has also led to a significant increase in the presence of young people in prisons. The reduction in drug levels is another cause, and we have fewer early redundancies today than before. But what is still contributing to this is that on the other hand, massive savings have taken place in all the facilities that are, so to speak, located in the precautionary field. The association “Restart” takes care of all those who have been in prison before, who have been released. But where prevention work should be done, there is a lack of money in the back and front, and precisely these institutions must fight for every euro, today more than ever before. There are strong difficulties in the whole area of open youth work, which could be massively involved in prevention. Financial difficulties also have all youth welfare services. There is a constant reduction in staff instead of increasing staff, which would be necessary because the tasks of youth welfare are constantly increasing. The employees are overloaded. They should be more concerned about violence in families, but also about sexual abuse. All this takes time. This time, however, the employees do not have. There would certainly be opportunities to achieve improvements. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another area where there is a lack of money is the facilities for young people with problems. I speak of therapeutic groups, housing communities, day care. These institutions also fight for every euro. It is precisely in this area that it could be prevented that young people become criminalised at all and end up in prisons. Investing Instead of re-establishing prisons, please take preventive measures, Minister of State! This will save you your prisons. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another last word, because it is a special concern to me, from my experience as a mother, as a woman coming from Vorarlberg, on the Swiss border: Please finally decriminalize cannabis and draw a clear, clean border between the drug cannabis and other drugs! [[Lively contradiction with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Miedl: Such a fool! Such a fool!]] [[Abg. Steibl: A scandal!]] This would be an important step towards improving justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3512	Mr Donnerbauer! But I didn’t hear the word “foolishness ”! [[Abg. Murauer: I didn't hear anything!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: We didn't hear anything!]] Next, Mr Praßl. Desirable 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3554	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! The threat of overcrowding in the Austrian judicial institutions causes problems for the judicial administration. This development must be countered. This requires, as far as possible, accurate information on the causes, why and why this overcrowding takes place. Ladies and gentlemen! A certain increase in the number of prisoners in the growing age has been deliberately acquired during the change of law. However, the data are against it. It is primarily about young people who have been convicted before the entry into force of the law and in all regions of the country. However, there is a shift within the group of non-Austrian women and Austrians. While the EU countries and the candidate countries and the successor countries of the former Yugoslavia are becoming increasingly smaller, the share of criminals from Eastern Europe and the African continent is increasing significantly. In total, people from these regions provide more than 1,000 additional detentions. For Eastern Europeans, this growth is exactly 420 percent – and that is enormously high. This also means the five-fold percentage. The increase in Africans is about 401 people or 113 percent. While the share of Austrians in prison accesses in Vienna is falling slightly, it is slightly increasing in the rest of the Federal territory, ladies very much And gentlemen! I would like to say that the decline in Vienna is a small percentage, the rise in the federal states is a little higher. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, in Vienna, where the number of accesses to judicial institutions is particularly high, the total number of convicted persons is falling. The ratio of the light to the serious crimes in the federal states is shifted more significantly than in Vienna. Unlike in Vienna, the figures also increase significantly in the rest of the federal territory because of mild to severe body injury of convicted prisoners. Of the 540 young prisoners added between 2000 and 2002, this is a 67 per cent increase in access numbers, 14 per cent are Austrians on average, 6 per cent are from the classical host workers nations and the states of ex-Yugoslavia, and a significant percentage is from the Eastern European states, including Russia, and from the African continent. On the one hand, in the case of an increase of approximately 1 220 persons from 2000 to 2002, there is a significant increase in the number of drug addicts, including the quality of the crime, and on the other hand also in the case of qualified theft. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important here to do very good work, especially in advance. I believe that we must take these relative figures seriously. The Federal Government and its Federal Minister Böhmdorfer do very good and intensive work here. Youth crime – and I want to take it very seriously – should take the opposition seriously. The government parties take them seriously, because I think every youth in a detention centre is just too much. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3613	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. Your voluntary time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3631	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My predecessor has finished his remarks by saying that every youth in our institutions is one too much. – I immediately underline that! I am pleased that the chairman of the Committee on Justice, Dr. Fekter, has already repeatedly announced that we should also consider measures to reduce the number of inmates in our judicial institutions. I am also looking forward to the discussion. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to thank the members of the judiciary as a whole and especially the ladies and gentlemen of your House, Mr Minister, very much for the good cooperation on behalf of my group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only two, three brief remarks on the budget and then some remarks in the context of the execution of the penalty. Even in times when savings are announced, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to equip such an important and sensitive place as justice with the necessary resources, both in matters and in personnel. But if I look at the budget, I have to say that the court has In other words, more revenue – not included in the penalty now – than from the public budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3667	Mr Rasinger, you're calling again! I'll give you a call for order. Please continue, Mr Pendl!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3689	Federal Minister! I believe that the area of justice as such has not received the appropriate funding under the budgets, which I believe can be very, very dangerous. As Mrs Fekter has pointed out, a trend away from personnel expenditure to expenditure on matters is apparent. Minus 168 planning posts per budget year, of which about one third are in the watch or executive area, will have a direct impact on the quality of service to citizens if you want to. Let me also make a few comments on the execution of the sentence. Mr Minister, we have often discussed this: We just got a high seat in Vienna. I am thinking only of our problem child judicial institution Josefstadt, where there is a surplus of about 300 inmates in a staggering workforce at the same time. I know this institution inside and outside, and I can say – whether the departments or the leisure area – that: The house is overcrowded! Everyone who knows our facilities knows about the difficult situation for both the inmates and – and I say that clearly – for the staff. No matter whether in the field of guarding, psychological or social service, the situation is difficult for all, yes, in fact unreasonable, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that in the next few months, in the Committee on Justice, we will finally put a number of important measures into discussion not only but also implement them. Overdue is a new regulation of action, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that in all three areas. We urgently need a discussion, probably a reintegration of the accommodation law. It cannot be – and I end with what I have begun – the last conclusion of wisdom is that one is being imprisoned in criminal cases. Perhaps you should think about whether there are more creative approaches in the interest of both the stakeholders and the budget – in order to use your words.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3728	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Preferred speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3746	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This budget clearly states that in the area of judicial policy, it is a continuation of the restructuring policy of the last legislative period. When Mr Jarolim speaks of the SPÖ of “inadequacy” and “disgusting” and thus means the Riemergasse, all this, as I mean, has been clarified. It was presented as it corresponds to the facts. The constant attempt to scandalize justice in relation to the Minister of Justice has once again failed. Mr Bures said that six requests for distrust would be based on the reputation of the Minister of Justice in the population. Even this is wrong, for there were seven requests for distrust which the Minister had decided on during the last legislative period. [[Abg. Neudeck: Now it's like torn off, money!]] It is obvious that the opposition has now become aware that this kind of scandalisation policy, this type of opposition policy, is not very targeting. Although the attempt to present things like the location relocation of Erdberg as a scandal is still being made as waste, it has also been made clear in this case that the conditions of detention were unreasonable and that this relocation has now made a clear improvement. In the Committee's deliberations on the budget, you also addressed questions to the Minister by the SPÖ. It is not enough for you, however, that a satisfactory, clear presentation by the Minister has been made, as it is now and how the situation as a whole has improved. It is not enough for you that 809 million € were planned in the 2002 budget and is now an increase to 887 million € by 2004. It is not enough for you that the working conditions for the judges have improved. They criticize that in so many firms, in so many offices, it would still look like in some areas of justice. ==References== Well, ladies and gentlemen, this very circumstance has been solved by the relocation of the site. It is not enough for you if Mr. Böhmdorfer clearly states that, in connection with the Riemergasse, it was not an unlawful or excessive commission payment to the broker who submitted the offer, but, contrary to the legal situation, a reduction of the commission to 1.5 months' rent – with accompanying additional services provided by the broker. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, you have criticized the rise in the number of prisoners. As an example, consider youth jurisdiction and the youthful prisoners. The Minister of Justice has stated that the privileges have been extended from 18 to 21 due to the fact that the age for juvenile offenders has been increased from 19 to 21. [[Abg. May. Worm: 18!]] That this leads to an increase in the number of prisoners is clear to you, Mrs Wurm. By the way, it was you who put this question in the Committee on Budgets, and you have, as I think, received a reasonable answer to it. They shall submit to the Minister of Justice that, under his leadership, his independence would not be guaranteed or even threatened. I can tell you that the President of the judicial association, Mrs Barbara Helige, confirms to the Minister of Justice that there is an objective personnel policy in his department. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Too few staff, they said!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If one were to follow the approach of the Social Democrats in particular, then probably the measure of all things would still be the donkey and ox carts, which would ensure that the next District Court could be reached in one day. That is not the case, you know that just as I and the Minister do. Ladies and gentlemen! Note that there is a very, very high proportion of foreigners in prisons who do not correspond to the average population in Austria. Around 50 percent of the prisoners are foreigners. This is due to the open borders we have, and also the need to ensure that those who have committed crimes do not subvert somewhere. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] A quarter of the offenders – even that has already been said – are drug dependent. To this end, I am surprised that the Greens are constantly calling for cannabis to be released; again today again by my colleague Rester-Hinterseer. [[Abg. Sburny: Mandak and decriminalize!]] This is not the policy we wish for, ladies and gentlemen. We stand for reforms, we stand for changes that are necessary to meet the demands of today. This Federal Minister, who has already demonstrated in the last legislative period that he is in favour of reforms, that he not only speaks of them, but also implements them, has a very rich work programme ahead of him – we will best support him in his reforms!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3840	Mrs Becher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3858	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal today with a legislative project, a legislative amendment which, although not contained in the government programme, is nevertheless to be adopted in autumn, and has already been addressed by some colleagues today, namely the proposed change in the extradition procedure. The extradition procedure is therefore a very essential procedure because it is free of charge for everyone because one can go to court relatively informally and submit his application without having to have a lawyer. This procedure is 150 years old and therefore older than the civil procedure. Despite his yet advanced age, it is a very advanced law that provides a reasonable regulation for all persons. A solution is not sought in the disputed procedure, but an attempt is made to bring both parties to a satisfactory solution. Without putting a cost risk to its right – this should end in the future. A cost replacement is planned, i.e. that party that does not get a right in court may have to expect it to bear the costs of the opposing lawyer. All citizens are affected by this, because the law of marriage, all matters of housing, the law of employment, the law of inheritance, is a very broad field where one may have to go to court in one case or another. This can also be associated with very high costs, for example in an ordinary §-18 procedure, i.e. when a house is renovated. With 1 000 square meters, with 4 € rental increase, with two hours of lawyers, the cost risk can be up to 12 000 €. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] The judge then decides. It says it's fair to decide, and there's always a process output open. Anyway, that's really a pigry!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3889	Please, Mrs Colleague, another word.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3904	There is not really equal access to the right if this change is to take place in this form, and I am very moved. I have been confronted with this problem in the budget hearing, which is why I would like to put this to the Minister of Justice, and I have been told with an answer that I was very surprised at. As an answer, you have described a case of operating cost accounting as there are thousands because very, very many operating costs are wrong. [[Abg. Neudeck:... Gemeinde Wien?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You'll be looking for that for a long time!]] You have said that the homeowner with a false operating cost bill should assume the attorney’s attorney’s costs that would be fair. In view of this answer, I must say: I have certainly been deliberately misunderstandingd, because that could not really be serious. Of course, I also believe that changes should be made in this area – that is not a question at all – because it is true that we have a lot of false operating costs every year and that very often wrong amounts are also deliberately taken in, which is evident from the fact that they are always the same every year. That's almost fraudulent! The fact that this homeowner may get away with payment only one hour is almost ridiculous! I can't go to a store and steal a TV and just give him back without having to expect consequences, if you catch me. I would like to make this comparison here if it were intended to be demonstrated by intention. So there is a change here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But answering an injustice with another is not right. In my opinion, the Extraordinary Act is a damocles sword. It poses a cost risk and constitutes a legal barrier for all those who cannot afford to do so. I therefore call for this to be considered again in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3969	The next speaker is Mr Detlev Neudeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3990	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Stoisits has today accused Mr. Böhmdorfer in her speech that the proceedings take so long and that this has worsened in his term of office. Since the mid-1970s, I have also been dealing with dishes, and I have to say: The procedures are very long, I think, too long. However, during the term of office of Minister Böhmdorfer, I did not see any significant deterioration, but rather I realized from him that where he can do something through accompanying procedures, he is very much trying to shorten and speed up these procedures. Of course, it is also a damage to the economies of the world if termination procedures go over years, can be interrupted by various review procedures, and the tenant does not have to pay rent at that time, and then often after a process duration of one and a half years, and the landlord then stays at an open amount of – at today's rents and operating costs – up to hundreds of thousands of schillings. Mrs Moser, I should like to say: It was a very informative conversation with her yesterday, in which she asked me about the broker regulation. I have explained very precisely to her that there is the Naming, but also the merit of the broker, and it is then to be decided what leads to a commission claim. The brokering industry is an aleatorial industry, and there it is – and the Minister has done this briefly – that a closed business has to be replaced for many businesses, which one has started but not finished. In this process, the Plech firm has done much beyond the broker's activity following the conclusion of the lease contract with the technical details – space divisions et cetera – mediation functions between the builder, the owner and the ministry. I believe that the reasonable but high commission has been properly paid in figures for the business, especially since it is an indefinite rental contract – not, as Mr Bures said, a temporary one – and even the overrun of the commission of three months in the commercial sector would have been possible on the tenant. So in this case a commission was actually negotiated and then paid, whose amount was a quarter of what would have been possible. I therefore believe that we can do so in this context. Federal Minister Böhmdorfer did not blame that he had made a commission that was overstated. It should also be noted here that it is also for the benefit of judges and employees working there if they are allowed to carry out their activities in areas adapted to today's working conditions. Furthermore, it should be noted that those who go to this court – whether as a complainant, defendant or attorney – now have much better access because a subway is nearby. Who needs the parking... - Do you want to clap? [[Towards a Member of the Liberals.]] Then please! Or do you want me to stop? [[Abg. Scheibner: For the protocol...!]] – Anyone who knows the parking space in the Riemergasse will be glad that the overschedule will now take place in September! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4030	I note with my colleague Mr Neudeck that time has not been exhausted. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Maier. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4063	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We have a different view of matters concerning justice. We believe that this policy that you are responsible for, Mr Federal Minister, in particular with regard to budgetary approaches, is a risk that justice will collapse in many areas. My colleague Worm has already referred to the resolution of judges and prosecutors. The judges and prosecutors of the State of Salzburg also have a very clear position in this regard. In this context, you have expressed the following opinion – I quote –: “We, the judges and prosecutors of the state of Salzburg, call on the Federal Government to take back the planned cuts from the courts and prosecutors’ planning offices and to equip the courts and prosecutors with a quantity of planning stations for judges, prosecutors, officials and contract staff with one of the actual charges. Otherwise, the case law threatens to collapse in a wide range of areas.’ My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This is not an accusation of the opposition, but it is a clear, unanimous statement of the judges and prosecutors of the state of Salzburg, and this applies to all of Austria. That is why we cannot accept your budget, Mr Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The lack of budget resources, savings in staff can weaken the entire judicial system, I very much respect it. Ladies and gentlemen, particularly in large cases, but also in small cases, in civil proceedings. I know from personal discussions that judges no longer know when to set dates; they are charged until October, Federal Minister, and this will make the access to justice difficult for the people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In this context, there is also a very interesting one – and I assume, Federal Minister, that this is related to lack of planning points in the judicial administration or at the judicial board –: The managers responsible for the WEB-Bautrehand-IMMAG scandal in Salzburg – you know – were sentenced to high prison sentences. With the exception of one, everyone is in a certain prison. And now I hear, Federal Minister, that the gentlemen from the fine society are back in the fine society due to freeways. You can find them on tennis courts, you can find them at cultural events, and others are supposed to be doing their job during the free time. The “Kronen Zeitung” also reported on this – I quote –: “But the detention is greatly facilitated by some managers who received a total of 44 years of imprisonment after the billion affair. “A tax advisor who is actually in prison even invites acquaintances to play tennis in Vienna,”...” – Another, ladies and gentlemen, who, according to my information, has rented a property where he stops during his release. [[Abg. May. Worm: This is a two-class society!]] Mr Federal Minister, I do not think that this is related to the lack of human resources in the field of justice. I think this is a violation of the principle of equality, and I wonder: Where is the equality before the law? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion: A budget of course also has an impact on future legislative projects. Mr Federal Minister, I ask It's quite open: When will the criminal compensation law come? In a television report, you have assured us that this law will come; on the other hand, I hear that the Federal Minister for Finance – the greatest waste of this nation, as we could know yesterday, has wasted €27 million! – for financial reasons, is against this scheme. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let us solve the problems of criminal compensation law! Federal Minister Böhmdorfer, stand up against Federal Minister Grasser!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4131	Mrs Stadlbauer's next speech. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4152	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Allow me first to address a question to Mr Böhmdorfer. Since we have learned yesterday that the Youth Court has formally cried out for help and told us that it can no longer afford the anti-aggression training for the young people who are in prison, I ask you, Minister of State: What to Remember Do you want to do this in order to ensure these financial resources? I think it can't be that the young people are being locked away now, and that's it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, I would like to use today's speech to speak for a group that I come from myself and which can be either very negatively affected by the judicial budget and, above all, by laws, or positively supported. I'm talking about single mothers. I know very well how the situation of single mothers is, I am one myself. I know that there are two things that have a massive effect on life: one is the financial situation and the other is social isolation. Nevertheless, I did it somehow, and my goal is now to help other women who are in a similar situation. – That I didn't make it so bad proves, among other things, the day yesterday. That's because my daughter passed her matura with good success. [[We welcome the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens, the ÖVP and the Liberals.]] I am very proud of it and wanted to express it in this form. There are three things that have happened in recent years and which have really seriously deteriorated the situation of single-parents: The first is the compulsorily common care, the amendment of the law on childbirth. I admit that there are couples, there are parents who could agree after divorce and who after divorce both wanted to be responsible for their child and then they are. It is usually the case that the fathers do not want to say goodbye more or less. But there may well be these cases. But just because of these cases to make a law that massively damages other, weaker parts and gives the stronger parts such a strong instrument in order to put pressure on the weaker financial or even the whole relationship that still exists after divorce, I simply do not think it justified. It may not have been in the sense of the inventors that this very law is now designed in such a way that it is still used as a “joker” in divorce proceedings as a means of printing when it comes to maintenance payments. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I can't do that! It just needs to make a request!]] These are cases where the lawyer says to his client: We take the common care as a “joker ”! That means, the man says: I do not give up the common care, and for that I pay you less support. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It is a recipe of success, and you do not want it to be true!]] – These cases exist, these cases lie on the table, we hear them daily, and it may not have been in your sense that you have made this law. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The common care is a recipe of success, and you do not want it to be true!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Fekter.]] There are these cases, Mrs. Fekter! Even if They still try so much to brow them away: It's easy, they're on the table! Allow me to say something to the care: I hope, Dr. Böhmdorfer, that you can decide to evaluate this law before 2005. I think if it has such a massive impact on women, children and fathers, then we should look at the law before and not in 2005, as you announced in the Committee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second massive deterioration concerns the situation surrounding the advance of maintenance payments. We know that there has really been deterioration in recent years, because only if you assume that the father can really pay. He can't, there's no maintenance advance either. In this way, your statement that every child in Austria, who needs the maintenance advance, also receives it, is simply and simply wrong, because if you assume that the father cannot afford it, then the state does not make any money either. This is a big problem because children are left alone here and the state does not assume its responsibility. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] The third point is the issue of single-parents: This is about the divorce procedure, where you repeatedly propose, Minister, that we should or should introduce a lawyer's obligation. I think your concern, which is behind this proposal, is certainly, to want to understand it well, loyal. I would also like to support women in divorce proceedings so that they do not get under the wheels – but not like you, by providing lawyers with an additional income that means costs for women that many of them cannot afford. You always speak of 1 000 €: I could not have afforded this in my situation! Even if this caused me a hundred times a better comparison and a better maintenance – you always argue – then this maintenance is for the child, and not for the lawyer who has previously beaten out the higher amount. I therefore believe that this is an absolutely negative measure. In contrast, we could financially support women's associations and advisory bodies who do exactly this task. But you don't want them, they always make you bad, just like the victim protection facilities you want to starve. All these associations and organisations provide very valuable support, and I hope that we will continue to have sufficient financial resources for them in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4252	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Time remaining: 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4270	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Very briefly, I would like to address the still open questions: Mr Jarolim said that the Jugendgerichtshof had a plan-setting solution. – Mr deputies, that is wrong! In order to reduce U-haft times, especially among young people, we have given up a planning site there more. It only takes a little bit of time for this to be carried out, but there can be no talk of a site resolution at all. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That means they all stay the way they are?]] - No, an additional one! Of course, all the other planning sites remain, nothing is shortened. I would like to thank Mrs Fekter for the rationalization proposals. These are joint projects that we will work on together, and we will surely find good solutions here. Mrs Stoisits' view is incorrect that no human resources for the StPO pre-procedure reform would have been taken. We are planning this provision very well, it will also be available, only: We don't know the final text of the law yet. I beg you not to overlook this. Only then, when the extent of legal remedies – and this is the core area of this issue – can we calculate the additional burden of work, and only then can we calculate how much additional staff we need – can we not do otherwise! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] The horror reports from Germany that we need 200 additional prosecutors are fantasy figures that are not serious from my point of view, because we cannot calculate them exactly yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you criticise the increased use of interlocutors. I do not think this criticism is right, because it is cost-effective. Conciliation bodies are appropriate where mass procedures can be expected, for example in neighbouring law, where the concept of locality also plays a major role. This question of dispute is better dealt with through conciliation bodies. They do not therefore avoid the courts, for anyone who does not accept a conciliation body can go to court at least after that. – This is the system, and it offers more legal protection and more favourable legal protection than it has been. To Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. – I can confirm that the procedures are short. I thank all the judges and prosecutors for their great commitment. We are the world leader in the process. Of course, our aim is to shorten the procedures even further. The fact is that the average duration of the U-port is falling – a proof of the great use of the judges and prosecutors. The Home Residence Act will also be completed very quickly in the future, we are still waiting for a knowledge of the Constitutional Court on this question, because this is essential for legal design. I must say to Mrs Bures that I would have locked the funds for the Jugendgerichtshof, that is not only wrong, it is abstrust. I haven't locked any funds! Tags were not possible in the Jugendgerichtshof because it is listed as a monument protected. All the conversion possibilities were and have been exhausted. I would like to say to Mr Pendl: It is not right that we do not have sufficient budget resources. In the first two years, for which this draft applies, we need to save 1.5 percent of the planned posts, we will only be able to make further savings if the judicial organisation is improved when the numbers of prisoners have fallen and much more. Thankfully, this has been agreed in writing with the Ministry of Finance. However, I would like to thank Mr Pendl for the great use of the judiciary. There are currently more prisoners, because we have experienced a wave of crime that has already been seen in Western Europe. We must strive to deal with these. But I'm allowed to say: Austria remains safe! We have an average of five outbreaks per year; ten years ago, it was about 55. This is thanks to our great judicial guard and the great work it is doing. [[It is a pleasure for the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as for representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the direction of Mrs Becher, I would like to say: The misunderstanding of cost replacement in the extradition procedure is almost impossible for me to understand. I claim that the person who deliberately uses the courts to prevent the rightful claim of a fellow citizen is not to be rewarded by free use of the courts. I don't think that's right! We must treat the same thing and inequality according to the principle of equality. And the one who goes to court with an almost asocial motive, namely to take away a legitimate claim from the opponent, should not be rewarded by the fact that it costs him nothing. This is the basic idea of the cost replacement, and I ask you to discuss this with me in all peace and substance. Mr Mag. Maier! Justice doesn't collapse, it can't be a talk! Saving 1.5 percent is not a reason to collapse. I would like to add one more comment: We have 75 percent pragmatized officials in the field of justice. These officials have a high level of social security from the beginning of the employment relationship to the end of their life. I say quite openly: I believe that in difficult times 1.5 percent of more work, accompanied and supported by rationalization measures, can be demanded very well! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Stadlbauer! On the obligation of attorney in the divorce proceedings: My intention on this question is really very fair. It is not based on lobbyism for lawyers, but on my experience that mothers are often pulled over the table because of their inexperience in the maintenance question of divorces. In fact, even in the case of best consultation, no one can be so well advised that he is in a difficult trial before court. But the abandonment of a spouse entertainment often has terrible consequences for the person concerned because – and you must not overlook that! – is not reversible! If there is an erroneously too little child care, you can go to court the next day and apply for an increase. If you are an errant spouse, this is a mistake that you can never do well again! And this often happens because women in divorce cases have often been incorruptible in court. This is my only motive for this measure: I am in favour of a better representation of these women in divorce matters! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Even the claim that we have too few computer devices is not correct. There is a PC in the judicial system for every workplace. As a whole, we have 10,000 PCs and a little more jobs in the field of justice, i.e.: On average, we have achieved full capacity, even in the past legislative period. This also enables us to actually make 1.5 percent savings and to be responsible. By the way, I would like to thank you for your cooperation in the Committee on Justice and I welcome the praise for our officials, who really deserve it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4359	I call Mr Puswald. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4377	Mr President. [[Abg. Wittauer: (in the direction of Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Yours! Your enemy's out!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer, on the occasion of my request to you, you recently asked me to explain this – as if it were not enough to see and experience from you in connection with the abolition of the Jugendgerichtshof, as if it would not be enough to quote your own answer in connection with the City-Tower story! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grossruck and Mr Wittauer.]] And that is where I want to correct you, Minister of Justice. I assume that as a learned lawyer, you know very well what you're writing. [[Abg. Wittauer: Christian, you took the wrong speech!]] And you answered the question as follows – I quote –: “The City Tower Vienna became – under this name – the Federal Ministry of Justice as a rental object for the Vienna Commercial Court” and so on “for the first time in July 2001. The Fa. PORR presented the rental object to the Federal Ministry of Justice in a presentation on 31.7.2001.” – There is no talk about a broker! [[Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer:... by a broker!]] And if you now accuse the broker, although you write on the next page that you have seen the broker “first in September 2001”, then that’s what You are now trying to insert something for me, which is usually qualified as a false claim of protection. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Please be insured, Minister of Justice: The Social Democrats will continue to follow up on these suspicions and will also address them to the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer.]] But let me mention another example, a provincial as it may seem to you, but one typical of your judicial policy: In your term of office, the District Court of St. Veit was renovated at the Glan with millions of amounts, it has recently been completed, obtained and put into service. Also recently, it wanted the time sequence, the Carinthians and Styrian judges have turned against your judicial policy. And by chance, in this context, the announcement comes from you that this court, which has been completely renovated with millions of taxpayers in your term of office, is to be closed! So if this waste of taxpayers doesn't demand a withdrawal, I don't know what else! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But if you have not meant this seriously, a second question arises: Why is this announcement of closure concerning the St. Veit District Court on the Glan right now? And: Why, by chance, is the rescue message of Jörg Haider from Carinthia, who says he will prevent that? Does this perhaps mean that this is again just a political show, which is intended to help the Minister of Justice prepare the field again for the already far-off Jörg Haider? Or what else should this procedure be good for? Moreover, if you consider that your savings measures will lead to a further reduction in the level of further posts of justice, which is already over-neighboured, even now the judges are overwhelmed, those seeking justice will no longer come to their decisions in time, where there can no longer be an acceleration of proceedings because the judges are overwhelmed, yet mothers will no longer receive maintenance amounts, because the procedure will not be accelerated – then you will know that your policy is completely empty! [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman on the one hand and representatives of the SPÖ on the other.]] One last thing: On my way to Parliament, I read every day the inscription on the heroic gate: ‘Justitia fundamentale regnorum’ – Justice is the foundation of all governments! If you start digging this foundation, the justice, Mr. Justice Minister, then dig your own government and thus your office off the water and rationalize yourself away! I don't have anything to add to it right now!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4491	Is there any further word messages to this effect? - That's not the case. I note that there are no further statements on the Justice chapter. Military Affairs Chapter 40: Military Affairs
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4519	We are going to negotiate Chapter 40, Military Affairs. First, Mr Gaál spoke. I'll give him the word. The speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4540	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Murauer, the dynamic energy bundle, is being used for me today. [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! You've got us on an APA broadcast of 10. April indicates that there will be a higher budget for national defence. It also said that you were satisfied with the course of the budget talks with Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance. With a closer look at the budget figures, it must be said that one cannot be satisfied with the development of the budget and the associated prospects regarding the future of the Austrian federal army, because the fact is that the military budget has been falling from year to year since the Federal Government took office. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Ask Rudolf Edlinger why!]] As the €70 million estimated in the budget also does not help, because many open invoices have to be paid, and this increase is of course more than neutralized by many factors. So you have to talk about a zero-sum game. Mr Federal Minister, I should like to give three examples: Assistance at the border. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] – Approximately €50 million would be needed for this. There was a promise that this would be paid off separately. This is no longer the case, although in the Council of Ministers' lecture on 1st November, the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the European Union of the European Communities of the European Communities, the Council of Ministers of the European Communities and the Council of Ministers of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities and the Council of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities. October 2002 – I have here – is clearly and Once again, the Minister of Finance has become writty. In the future, the army must cover these expenses from the current budget. Next example: Anti-error package. – For this, if I still have that right in mind, €72.7 million was planned. There is also a valid Council of Ministers decision for this purpose, namely, 2. In October 2001, it is clearly stated that the necessary financial resources should be made available. In addition, it states that the agreement of the Minister of Finance with your place of business, Mr. Defence, is mandatory. But: Nothing has happened, and there is no financial resources for that either. This concerns not only the state defense, but also the Ministry of the Interior. The third and last example, from the Council of Ministers' lecture on 13 November, is that of the Council of Ministers. November 2001: We have committed ourselves to providing a maximum of 2 000 people for KIOP, crisis intervention forces for international operations. This would require around € 120 million annually. The necessary financial provision should also be made for this. In the budget, Mr. Federal Minister, nothing is apparent from this! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is a shame!]] The Minister of Finance has also failed to take account of these provisions. It is all completely masked, it is not a material development as always prepared. I've got to hold on to this. The Minister of Finance has also disregarded his commitments, even there he has become verbal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is a problem, however, if a Minister of Finance does not even pay attention to Council decisions! And when we remember his last performance, yesterday's performance, ladies and gentlemen: So if a Social Democratic Finance Minister had used millions of euros to represent itself, you would have locked the Himmelpfortgasse! But the Lord is still running free today! [[Abg. Murauer: That was a bit strong now!]] Mr Federal Minister, come back to the Eurofighters again. I can only tell you: You get the planes you ordered that have been evaluated by your evaluation commission – with 4 : 1 you have decided to do so – not because they are not available, they are not ready for serialization! What is there is a Eurofighter of the tranche 1, i.e. a Eurofighter in the test application, which is only suitable for training purposes and does not meet Austrian needs. This is in stark contradiction with the tendering criteria, with the awarding directives! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true, you know that very well!]] That was a reason why the book of obligations, the Bible of procurement, was subsequently and deliberately changed. The interim solution was removed because it could not be fulfilled by EADS. And this expensive interim solution, Mr. Federal Minister – for this, €400 million is needed now – now you have to pay out of the budget. There is a very simple, negligent handling of taxpayers, and the main responsibility for this is borne by the Minister of Finance. You, Mr Federal Minister, will have very serious problems with this budget. Also this €70 million you have to relativize, because you assume from a completely false basis: They do not take account of those one billion you have received for the 2001 and 2002 budgets and assume from a base 2000 so that these € 70 million only exist mathematically, in fact you have a much smaller budget. The soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army, the officers and officers, batches and groundmen do a lot for our country. It is therefore necessary, above all, to ask the Minister of Finance, but also you: Give the Federal Government the means it needs to carry out its tasks, and do not invest in luxury fighter jets that no one needs, which are not necessary for security policy and that are a disaster in budget policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are concerned that people in this country feel comfortable and secure. And we want to work for that! This draft budget is not very helpful and therefore does not receive our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4651	Mr Murauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 10 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4670	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The current budget for the defence of the state could actually, I believe, also obtain the approval of Social Democracy and its interlocutors Toni Gaál, because there is a greater amount of financial resources. Our common objective was the goal of the Minister of Defence Platter and it is to raise the budget at least a little. And gratefully, he succeeded in increasing the budget by €70 million! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it's not sensational, but it can be seen. And if, after the division of social democracy, I now count the non-existent Eurofighters with an annual rate of 220 million from 2007 onwards, we come to a further increase in the budget by 0.1 percent. We will then reach 0.88 percent and thus move step by step towards the common goal of providing national defence with one percent of the gross domestic product in funding. It must be stressed in particular that the additional resources provided do not make anything, but the Minister has focused on the equipment and procurement for the force, and I believe that this is a particularly important emphasis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday mayor Gaßner himself exposed himself when he meant: You'll see, something's already hanging on the planes! So according to the motto: We'll throw the dirt on it once, and then we'll say, Look at how dirty they are! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes; exactly!]] You have this motto at pension insurance... – Stay there a little bit, it is also important for you so that you are warned! [[Abg. May. Kogler: It was self-polluting!]] – You have applied this motto not only to the pension reform, but also to the interception hunters. I am now reading to you something about the fact that you, ladies and gentlemen, Social Democrats, have been sentenced to 420 000 s, and have been legally condemned. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Amon: How much?]] At 420 000 S, that's 30 000 €. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Who was sentenced?]] Social democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, be careful – because you have your finances largely in order, as we know, you can afford this half million of course: The SPÖ must pay compensation for damage due to corruption in the framework of a mass e-mail in which it claimed that the “FPÖ government members” would be “rewarded for the fighter plane decision”. The procedure has been lost, and now you pay from the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I warn you, too, of the Greens: Listen With these general, flat-rate convictions, inconsistencies and allegations, please do not pay off! Honesty prevails, even when it comes to getting a plane. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to explain to you very briefly and draw attention to the fact that those who believe that they may be wrong in deceiving the general risks and threats. You can read in the "Yearbook on International Security Policy" on instability, risks and dangers, you can read what international terrorism, what international crime, what the preparation of chemicals for weapons of mass destruction can mean, which can mean corresponding systems of carriers of risks and risks to us. You must note that in 2002, 50 million people worldwide were fleeing, with 6 million displaced people in Europe alone. Since 1989 the risk has changed, but has not become smaller between the two power blocks of Warsaw Pact and NATO – colleague Kummerer, perhaps a little later, but you can read it too! – but our world has become more unstable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer]] The problem is the predictability and calculability of risks and threats. For a small country like Austria, it is necessary for us to seek European and international cooperation, to seek cooperation, to support international solidarity, and to contribute to European security and defence policy, with the United Nations, with the OSCE, with NATO, with the WEU in order to co-operate and share our security and security in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The duty to assist, which should come in the near future, including in Europe, serves our security, ladies and gentlemen, and we have to conclude that we are primarily responsible for our national security and that we must not be subject to the wrong argument, the wrong consideration: We are surrounded by NATO states, we are surrounded by friends, who should Austrians do anything to us?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Lunacek: This is also in the Security Doctor!]] – But you have read another one than we have decided. Please read it again, maybe you can better understand it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will not deal with the military music chapel and the provision of a gulash cannon alone. It is our duty and responsibility to participate in the European security and defence system and to be an accountable partner for all European states in this partnership. Mr Platter has set a further focus on the equipment of the troops. I would like to inform you that in the context of the combat suit equipment package, the repurchasing of motor vehicles, trucks, buses is being purchased, that training is optimised, that accommodation is improved, that Ulan tanks are running, that all three pieces of Hercules transport aircraft are adjusted accordingly, and that the ABC defense, the nuclear, biological and chemical defence, the corresponding focus is given. Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion, I would like to thank you very much for the assistance efforts of the Federal Army, for the use of disasters and for the use on the border. Thank you very much for your exemplary Use in floods, storms, earthquakes, drinking water supply – internationally and nationally! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The German army is a reliable partner in every crisis situation! This is to be underlined and underlined in today's budget debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the context of the reform debate, the continuation of the Security and Defence Doctrine, the future tasks of the Federal Army are defined domestically, but also internationally and for the protection of disasters accordingly and the consequences are drawn, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to mention that, for the sake of security, the spiritual defence of the country will have to have its place, so that we – I emphasize this – can achieve a new attitude towards the state defense and the federal army in our country, so that we can not discuss whether it is necessary for our country to secure certain parts of our country, or whether we have to release it, continue to talk about other matters. Ladies and gentlemen, last sentence: In its election programme, the Austrian People's Party has clearly defined the positive attitude towards the German army, the state defense, the constitution and the mandate of the Constitution, and has also made a commitment to the general obligation of military service – I underline that. In the government program with the Freedom Party you will find it again. The direction of our country's security policy is the common European security policy, is security policy which calls for European solidarity, but it is also to continue to provide a professional federal army in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4825	The next speaker is Mr Kogler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4854	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's right. Austria has a relatively low defence budget as measured by gross domestic product. You have also essentially – no, no, let me – turned to the SPÖ that this can be the common goal. [[Abg. Murauer: It's too low?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That would be something you say!]] I'll tell you: In this regard, we have a clear attitude – you have never agreed on this –: Even if arms expenditure is at a relatively low level, one can say that it is not necessary to raise it by force on the basis of comparisons. That's our attitude. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is now time for us to turn to the budgetary issues, because also 0.78 percent – or if it were sometime 0.88 percent; as I mean, perhaps too much – of the gross domestic product, it is worth planning correctly and carefully and also operating in the defence sector once and for all. [[Call to the ÖVP: This happens of course: correctly and carefully planned]] I do not want to blame Minister Platter for this, but I recall dozens of passages in several Court of Auditors reports which point to this very fact, namely, that it is a massive step in the planning of the Ministry of Defence's budget, which is always and in principle precisely what we are dealing with today, namely in the larger procurement procedures. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You know why? – Because there are constant pre-loads. On the one hand, the scarcity of the budget is lamented, on the other hand, arms expenditures are constantly being made, so that the same budget is completely stressed and, possibly, I say – meaningful tasks – at least from your point of view – there is no money in the federal army at all. This is a chaotic process. You should really put the relevant priorities in this budget if you already think that so much money has to be spent on it. I come now, because we are discussing the budget, on a completely different aspect, and I should like to make one more effort to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors says, once again in the light of the Ministry of Finance, that both of them say that legislative decisions should prove the costs associated with the decision. This is not only said by the Court of Auditors, and not only does the Minister of Finance regularly preach that – Mr Finz, the Secretary of State, knows exactly, he was in the Court of Auditors – but that also says federal budgetary law. Federal budgetary law is not a legal element, but at least a very important and weighty one in the context of this debate. You have some of the coalition parties without you wanting to register or know it to this day – you will probably not be aware of it now, but I say it to you anyway, because many things have to be said more often – with Article 69 of the Budgetary Support Act, which you adopted with more or less jubilee last night, in a massive way, in violation of federal budgetary law. And we should talk about this now. You have violated § 45, because you do not show the total cost of this procurement process. [[Call to the ÖVP: What does this have to do with the federal army?]] [[Abg. Großruck: Kogler, watch out, the SPÖ has been sentenced!]] Yes, for such a thing! You can't scare me with any threats. [[Abg. Brosz: This is a parliament! It's a parliament!]] We have already won enough negotiations. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Greens.]] The point is that we are returning to federal budgetary law, and you should be interested in being a Member of Parliament, whether it was in accordance with it or not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We tell you that the €1,969 billion is by far not the total cost associated with the procurement in this one act. Further system costs would be added here. That's quite clear, but you didn't do that – it's going to concern us for a long time. The background to that You didn't do it, we've discussed it more often – that's right, I repeat it anyway –: The background is that with all the violence you wanted to get below €2 billion in total – even if it does not correspond to the truth. The background is that you have obtained the costs of the interim and transitional solution in this way. And because you are not able to deliver the Eurofighters in good time, the suspicion of the allegation – that is what you can take away from them – is that you are not able to deliver the Eurofighters in good time, and that is why these costs are not included; I think this is a serious problem. I'll tell you: This procedure is contrary to § 45 of the Federal Budget Law. [[Abg. Scheibner: But is not true!]] It will not help you at all if you, Mr Platter, say: First, the second step needs to be taken. Let's buy the Eurofighters, and then we'll take the first step and look around for a transitional solution! [[Abg. Wittauer: Mr Kogler! You can repeat, repeat, repeat, it won't be true! The untruth remains the untruth!]] – It gets more true, calm down! [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not possible, for the untruth cannot become more true!]] It is clear that these costs are part of this process, but you have accused them, not only of public representations, but also of the intentions of the Federal Budget Act, and I am making this a accusation to you. Therefore, Article 69 of the budget accompanying law that you have adopted does not comply with the Federal Budget Act. [[Abg. Wittauer: I can't do it if you can't read it!]] But not enough with it: You did not comply with this Article 69 quite other simple provisions of law, interestingly those that the Ministry of Finance always advises of the others, Secretary of State Finz. What does § 14 of the Federal Budget Act say? - Let's take Abs. 1 C. 1: ‘Whether and to what extent the implementation of the proposed measures is likely to cause more ‘expenditure for the covenant’. – At least you should announce this in the explanations, but you didn’t! Article 69 is a single embarrassing torso: He started with “XXX, ” and ended up with some number that is not true! The explanations conceal against the intentions of the law – at least against the intentions, if not against the precise letters of the law – the costs associated with this procurement; these are again those of the transitional solution. And that's then – here we come to the operating costs that you have also claimed from the evaluation as regards the award act... – That's the mistake that we make you blame. [[Abg. Scheibner: They were never inside, Mr. Col.!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Why? They're not fixed! How do you want to evaluate something that is not established?]] [[Further calls.]] The call for information on operating costs has been requested, and you have subsequently said: You can't check that, these are manufacturer's specifications, we'd rather give them out. – Of course, this was an advantage for Eurofighter. Anyway, I'm telling you something else. § 14 gives rise to the need to indicate the follow-up costs at least in the explanatory notes. That's a good section. But you did not want to do so, and you did not want to do so. [[Abg. Scheibner: “With start”? What does “with start ”?]] You jumped into a basin with the start, but you accuse the other one that you would be shaken. They hop into the hole with the start, but rain up afterwards when the spots pick everywhere. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is primarily for the Minister for Finance and less for you, I know, but that is the overall context that we are going to do for a long time. [[Abg. Scheibner: I just asked what the “start ” is!]] You don't have to give in to the hope that you'll stop. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] They are not able to disarm the accusations. You have even violated the Federal Budget Act in several passages, and now you want to do so. Still calling them in and yelling at the prosecutor we're supposed to turn on. [[Abg. Murauer: You haven't done it yet!]] I'll tell you something. Political responsibility is not clarified before the prosecutor, but before an investigation committee. And you can't blame us for blocking the investigation committee with your majority. That's your method! So go inside and do not constantly turn the accusation! What else is to be in need of clarification, than that a Minister of Finance of the Republic, in the distress of answering a very bad urgent request on the flight forward, has been galloping and admitting that he had contacts before the so-called type decision and even negotiations, as he said, with one of the bidders – and only with one of the bidders! - has led. It's adventurous! This would have led to a committee of inquiry everywhere else, and you oppose it and keep the opposition from throwing dirt around you. [[Call to the ÖVP:The people come together by speaking!]] This is completely adventurous! This is a flight forward, which is perfectly transparent and gives more and more people the thought. I'm allowed to sum up: As far as the legal question is concerned, you said a year ago that a referral to Parliament was not necessary. The demand for a referendum that the Greens and the Social Democrats have also raised was rejected by saying that there is no parliamentary consultation with the procurement process. That bad you want to know about federal budget law? Or do you really not know? That may not be so crucial at all. That was the stand a year ago. Then we convinced you that it would very well need a financial authority. Then you wrote “xxx”. Then you wrote “1.3 billion, ” which is proven to be wrong. Then you have written “1,9 billion ” to keep it kind of award - making. That is also wrong and will still concern us! Then it turned out that you didn't even comply with the simplest provisions of the legal regulations, because you – and there's something behind it – wanted to avoid the follow-up costs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you don't want to hear anything about the suspension, you could at least have been in line with federal budgetary law. If you are upset at the budget debate that you are pointing out that the federal budget law has been trampled on with your legislative decision-making, this only shows that you either have no plan or are bad will, but that you still have enough need for information. - Go inside!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5145	I call Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5163	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! I think it is also very clear and clear to the responsible gentlemen and, of course, also to the responsible ladies in the Federal Army, because all the officers, officers, employees in the individual departments, but above all – and I would like to stress this – also the soldiers and the base soldiers are ready every hour to sacrifice, fight and stand ready for this country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, after we have had a 10- or fifteen-minute trip to the Eurofighters, which has actually lost nothing in the debate on the 2003 and 2004 budgets, we should try to get a little into the subject. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Please go! But in the budget accompanying law they have already lost something!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] What are these ladies and gentlemen who are actually responsible for their basic service? They are a guarantee of comprehensive national defence, both on the ground and in the air. They are also a guarantee of border use. Mr Murauer has already said that. They're really making our country borders safe. But they are also a guarantee for the performance of major events, Olympics, European Championships, world championships. Whenever you need them, they'll be there. Last but not least, they are also the guarantee of always being available if it is necessary to be ready for civilian aid operations, whether it be floods, floods, munitions or other disasters. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's why: Thank you for the Zig thousands – I have let it be lifted out – almost a hundred thousand hours of work provided by the Federal Army for the public. These are benefits of probably millions of euros. If you consider this, you can say with fug and right that the German army is actually developing a good part of the budget's resources made available itself: with services for the public. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let me come back to the border. I already mentioned it: I think it's going to be an excellent job. I am convinced that it is the only effective means against illegal immigration. Our people, the Austrians, have a right to be properly protected for as long as there is no Schengen agreement to be protected for so long as there is a risk that this illegal immigration takes place. That is why I also expect, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, to be clear about the future budgets, because I believe these are very important for us at a time like this, when Europe is growing together, but it is not yet one. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As far as the budget as it is concerned, in this case I am in my opinion a bit between the left and the right. It's clear, everyone wants more money for the federal army. Everyone wants more euro to be here... – I said “between left and right”, the middle I left out now, excuse me! [[Inter-call for the Greens.]] – Everyone wants the financial equipment to get better, but I have to say: We're happy. It's scarce, it could be more, no question at all, but we're satisfied. Mr Murauer's praise for the Federal Minister seems to be justified, but, I would also like to mention this here, we also hope that the numbering players in the budgets will really be converted into euro, which flows to the base, to the people who need the money. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Of course, that is so planned!]] [[Abg. Großruck: He guarantees it!]] Murauer guarantees quality, right? I'm just going to add to what's actually happening to this money. It has already been suggested in a few words, I would like to re-emphasize it here: There is a clear improvement in man equipment. Fight suits are purchased, the alpine equipment is reinforced. Believe me, this equipment is important! It is important for a possible military dispute, but optimising this equipment is also important to ensure that there is the opportunity to help adequately in the use of aid. Accommodations will be renovated or newly built. This also results in consequences for the regional economy. This will give impetus to SMEs whose order volume is thereby increased. You also have to clear this out quite clearly: This money flows directly and indirectly to small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of our economy, thus providing direct and indirect jobs. This extends from the kitchen staff in the individual canteens to the farmers who can supply their products to the federal army. Let's be honest: We are actually guilty of our soldiers – I always try to mention both sexes – because they deserve their equipment, their accommodation, their food, their basis, because only then will they be willing to continue working for us and, if it has to be, to fight for us. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If I may mention briefly: I believe that the Federal Government also has an educational task. I myself was also a ground defense minister – hunters, Turkish barracks in Spittal – and I have to say: When I look at it in retrospect, I can say that my continuing and continuing education did not harm being under a very strict trick for a few months. [[Calls to the Greens.]] That is why I am convinced that many of the ladies and gentlemen who go into this basic training are also making some personal training. Here again the thanks to the officers and subofficiaries, who also act as a pedagogue. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: To servas!]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, money also flows into education and training – an important foundation for a functioning army. Cars, trucks are purchased. We all know that this is very important so that our soldiers can safely come to their operations. Tanks, helicopters, transport aircraft are purchased – all demands that can, of course, be questioned as long as we do not need these devices. Only – I remember Galtür, I remember other disasters –: If it's ready, the call will always be loud. I know it myself. The first to be called after is the fire brigade, and the second is the federal army. That is why, I believe, one can agree to this budget with a calm conscience. Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ! Mr Murauer has already brought it: this charge and debt speech – not the Puswald! – in the course of the accusations of corruption. [[Abg. Grandruck: The Puswald!]] I think the accusations of corruption in the Eurofighter discussion have been judged here... [[Abg. Brosz: Are they not from the FPÖ itself?]] No, from the SPÖ! 30 000 € penalty must be paid to the FPÖ. In this sense, I would like to thank you, on behalf of the liberal financial officer, for improving our budget. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You need it!]] We need it, you know. You got it, that's good. But think about it! I advise you to do this because I think it's not targeting. If there are problems, then they will probably also be clarified, and if there is no one, then you should take note of a judgment – and Mr Puswald as a well-founded lawyer in particular – once again. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's all yours now, Uwe!]] Because we are already in judgment-to-know-how-names: You can also take note in your minutes of the judgment on your statements to Mr. Böhmdorfer – the non-existent applause will give you the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5356	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mr Federal Minister, you know the rule as to when the speaking time is counted on your group. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5374	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I should like to take this budget debate on the subject of defence policy in general, but also on the task of the Austrian Federal Army in conjunction with the budgetary possibilities. Ladies and gentlemen! Who They all know that the West-East conflict, which is no longer given, has changed considerably through our accession to the European Union the security situation in Europe, and that is why we also have quite different tasks within the Austrian federal army. We must ask ourselves the question: How can we take part in a common European security and peace architecture in the future, and how can we address the threats, threats that we face on the 11th? were painfully brought before the eyes on September 2001? The answer can only be that we must actively participate in a common European security and defence policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Regardless of that – and I would like to say this clearly here – it is nevertheless very important that we take territorial defence seriously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, it is a matter of course that protection and safety must be ensured on the ground and in the air. Today, there has already been a debate on airspace surveillance aircraft. I thought of an example when a Member of Parliament spoke about the fire brigade. Ladies and gentlemen! What is useful if you have an excellent fire alarm system in a house, but the fire brigade is not available? It is very essential that both are available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, In addition to this territorial defence, it is of course very important to us, as Mr Scheuch has also said, that we carry out the assistance at the border. This task was carried out by the Austrian Federal Army in an excellent way, as you can see when you look at the number of attacks. We will continue to fulfil this task in the future until the Schengen maturity of our new EU partners is given. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Thirdly, One of the main tasks is, of course, to provide assistance to the various disasters. I have already told the House that I have been on the spot at the time in Galtür in the terrible disaster and have seen how the German army and many other organizations have performed superhuman achievements. Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner! You know for yourself what that was: After that, it was no longer a problem to buy the Black Hawks, because then everyone was aware of the need for this acquisition measure. [[Abg. Murauer: Hopefully we don't need another disaster!]] Or I also think of the flood disaster in Kaprun, including in Schwaz. This is an excellent work for our Austrian federal army with its soldiers, and we will continue to do it to this extent within the framework of our budgetary possibilities. [[It was a surprise to the ÖVP, to representatives of the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] But, of course, international solidarity services will be of particular priority in the future. Our coalition has clearly agreed that this must be done. One has to face up to one thing – Mr Fassleven will give me a right – what Austria has done in recent years and decades in international operations: Over the last 40 years, over 50,000 soldiers have done excellent work in the various crisis regions of the world. As a result, Austria has received a high international reputation. I thank you for that. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Now we need to further develop this whole situation so that we can make our contribution to a common European security and defence policy. We have announced in the government programme that we will provide 1,500 soldiers for the international mission group KIOP, forces for international operations, with a one-year throughput. This requires certain measures. On the one hand, human resources are necessary, and in the negotiations we have succeeded in achieving that we can carry out moderate receptions in order to fulfil this mission. Furthermore, legal measures are now being prepared to provide a financial incentive for the individual soldiers who are willing to participate in foreign operations. On the other hand, of course investments in equipment, equipment and clothing are necessary. We will also take a very positive step in the right direction in the years 2003 and 2004 as part of our budgets. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another comment: For me, it was very important during the budget negotiations that, in addition to the procurement of the important airspace surveillance aircraft, we can also send a very clear signal towards the force. Because the airspace surveillance aircraft have been stressed before, I would like to say clearly and clearly here and today: These accusations, which have been made here over and over again, are incorrect! I'll turn that back! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My predecessor Herbert Scheibner did everything right. We have seen again today that the accusations of corruption have been rejected, yes, the SPÖ has even been punished for that. It is seen that we are very committed to bringing this procurement process, which is not easy, correct, flawless and clean over the stage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, now back: For me, it was very important that we put a clear signal towards the force next to the acquisition of the airspace surveillance aircraft. Therefore, with the € 70 million that we will receive in addition for the years 2003 and 2004, we will link a package for the soldiers. We're gonna buy combat suits. 1 000 are currently delivered to the hunter battalion 17 and 1,000 more until the summer to the hunter battalion 25. In addition, 10,000 combat suits will be purchased in 2003 and 2004. Ladies and gentlemen! That's very important! We will also send a real signal in the areas of radios, fleets, cars, trucks, buses and the like. It is important that, on the one hand, we take airspace surveillance and airspace surveillance seriously, but on the other, we also send these messages to the troops. It is very important for the self-esteem of the federal army, but it is also important for the security of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Now, one last thing about the presence service: We are currently in an intensive reflection phase, we want to make an offer to young people. [[Abg. Parnigoni: When do you pull in the grass?]] It is about how we can achieve that after the military service was completed, the young presenters say that it was a useful and valuable time. We always note that young people need to be asked for at the various conversations. They must have a clear scope of responsibility, and they must also be called for mentally. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Grasser too!]] I believe that social competence also plays a special role in the field of presence services. That is, we also need to have a spiritual development of young people within the framework of the presence service. This is our offer to the young boys, and I wish and hope that many will accept the presence service and say after it has been done, that it was a useful, a very good time with the Austrian federal army. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we have a very short budget. We will do the best in our house with our experts, with the officers and officers in the context of the budgetary possibilities; it goes in the right direction. I would like to thank Mr Officers, the officers, all the staff in our house who have done incredible work in recent months: in the context of the budget negotiations, in connection with the planning situation and the airspace surveillance aircraft. This is a great achievement, and I thank you very much for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Defence policy in Austria is heading in the right direction, and I am looking for You therefore agree to this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5518	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I should like to speak briefly to Mr Gaál. I have a certain passage from the raw protocol of your speech, in which it reads: “So if a Social Democratic Finance Minister had used millions to represent himself, you would have locked the Himmelpfortgasse! But the Lord is still running free today!" That is, although no name has been mentioned, at least extremely misunderstanding. I do not want to accept this in a harsh debate, and I cannot accept it either. Mr Gaál, I would very much like to ask you to withdraw this sentence. [[Abg. Gaal: If he is misunderstood, I will take him back.]] You're taking the sentence back? - Good. As the next speaker, I can speak to Mr Dr. Putting the word to Puswald.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5549	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I will not get caught up in a recent catch-up debate, but I will refer to the debate again in terms of the fact that the SPÖ has been deunified here by the government parties by assuming that we would not stand for the comprehensive state defense, we would not confess to the federal army – and I do not know what we would not do yet, Minister of Defense a.D. I thank you for the introduction with the judgment; I will now prefer it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Only if it costs nothing, confess to it!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Wittauer and Mr Großruck.]] As a lawyer, I am used to – and I may recommend this to the non-jurisdiction in the house – to read judgments, to inquire about the legal matter to which they refer and, above all, to the reasoning – and not just the tenor! - to read. I can tell you one thing: The judgment you quote is not appropriate to dissuade any accusations from whoever they may come from. [[Abg. Großruck: Very suitable!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But expensive!]] [[Abg. Grossruck: Keep the accusations straight?]] In this context, I tell you that you should also ask yourself why such assumptions are made if you, Minister of Defence a. D., are proud to have introduced a audit of the Court of Auditors, and quickly before the conclusion of this examination before the 2nd. In July, the Commission adopted a decision on the procurement of the interceptors. This alone is already a reason for reflection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You should know that the Court of Auditors is always fully audited, not accompanying it!]] Mr. Federal Minister a.D., you have introduced the accompanying control – not me. What to do with it, you will have to judge. [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't introduce that! I can't introduce that!]] However, I would also like to take this opportunity to make it clear, above all, to the military present here, that I also, on behalf of the SPÖ, have had to endure this campaign, just because it has criticised the way in which the capture of prisoners is carried out and has asked the question whether this is necessary at this time, join my previous speakers in expressing my opinion as to the performance of the federal army, and to express praise for it. The SPÖ acknowledges the achievements of the German army, and I add: It recognises the achievements of the Federal Government, although the budgetary situation has been in the last three years. The Federal Government, although it has no means, is doing great things, and I wish that today's statements by the government parties go to how to promote and support the Federal Government's achievements even better, not only would it prove to be pure lip confessions, but it would also follow the corresponding budgetary "acts" in the form of allocation of sufficient resources. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But always when it comes to more money, you are against it!]] I'll tell you why. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is something new! You've bleeding out the federal army!]] You of the Coalition Parties are here fully explaining how you support the Federal Army, you are fully aware of how you link action packages for the soldiers, and do not say that with 0.7 percent of the gross domestic product, you are making the lowest budget available to the federal army ever! The lowest budget! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Friend: When it comes to comprehensive national defence, you are abducting!]] Since you are now praising this budget so much and stressing what you are making available to the Federal Army, I remind you of what you have promised the Federal Army for three years and are finally beginning to pick up in small approaches. So that's self-lobe, that might be... – the rest of you think about it. If you think about what the federal army is doing, and if you think about what the actual service to the population is... [[Abg. Großruck: We know what the federal army is doing!]] If you know, I'll tell you what was just said so you can remember: Civil protection. Fire brigade in every form, as Mr Scheuch says: this is direct service to the population. [[Abg. Grossruck: We know!]] The comprehensive national defence, Mr. Collegue, is not just the photography of any things in the air. [[Abg. Großruck: But that also belongs to it!]] It's not part of it, not in the form you mean it. [[Abg. With the hot air balloon!]] We reject this form of comprehensive national defence for a single reason: You have to stretch to the ceiling. [[Abg. Großruck: I thought you were a lawyer! That's where you need to know the Constitution!]] There are more important things – and I agree with Mr Scheuch – and we have so much to do on the ground that we cannot build airlocks in the air, Mr President! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Do you know why the last Security Council was convened? – So that we can observe those planes that are not identifiable!]] Because you're addressing the Security Council: I'd like to answer that. You know what I like? I want to understand your threat scenario in two points.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5826	I would just like to ask Mr Murauer to note that Mr Puswald is actually speaking! [[Abg. Großruck: Yes, but if he doesn't understand!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Then the Murauer should talk because he knows himself!]] That's where he has to speak a second time. Please, Mr Puswald, sit down. You go!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5872	Maybe only in a short time to get your threat scenario into the right light. - The 11th. September, which you would like to quote, because no one ever loses your photographs of American aircraft – we hear that again and again! – despite the largest air force in the world, it could not be prevented. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Großruck]] Austria would be good advises if, in view of the precarious financial conditions and the non-existent means, it would invest in other – that is diplomatic and other – efforts and not allow any expensive “photographers” to fly around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5910	Mr Scheibner spoke in favour of an actual correction. He knows the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5932	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Puswald, in his speech, said that I had asked the Court of Auditors to initiate and carry out a monitoring of the procurement process, and he even said that I had introduced this monitoring. Mr Puswald, this claim is incorrect, it also overestimates my possibilities at the time – but I thank you for your assessment, honourable Member. The Court of Auditors is not able to monitor, as you know as a Member of Parliament, but it is, in effect, to control a completed operation in a ministry. That's exactly what he's doing now. I asked the President of the Court of Auditors to understand the procurement process...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5971	The actual correction is now also a completed process!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5992	I'll finish him. I asked the Court of Auditors to carry out a thorough review of this procurement process, and that is why it is not against the fact that the Treaty can be signed before the conclusion of this comprehensive review.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6026	Mr Ikrath came to speak. 6 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6044	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! As you know, I am one who is a practitioner in the economy, and as such I would like to expressly acknowledge this double budget, which is available to us, and my recognition also applies to the Federal Minister and the Federal Government, because this budget has set up a very crucial turnaround phase for the defence of the state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] Mrs Lunacek, you will be speaking anyway and can then discuss with me who knows better in the economy: She or I. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Murauer.]] For the first time, the investment room, the investment room for the force, was re-enhanced significantly and decisively. I prove it to you by means of a code: In 1997, we had a relationship between investment expenditure on the one hand and operating expenditure on the other of 15 : 69 percent; now we have a share of 20 : 77 per cent in favour of investment. We have the highest absolute budget, we have the highest absolute investment effort, and – and this is something to be addressed in particular to the SPÖ address – the Eurofighter, the necessary airspace protection is financed outside the national defence budget, and not like the Draken procurement, fully at the expense of the defense budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Grad well: You may know yourself in the economy, but not in the procurement processes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who pays? The Christkind?]] Do you know what that would mean if Mr. Plattner's manager in the private sector were to lead to such a situation in the "Federal Army" company? – He would get a supergage, super premiums and get the highest recognition. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: He's flattering, not Plattner!]] He would probably become “manager of the year” in the “trend”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: His name is Platter, not Platter!]] I understand that the opposition does not recognize such a performance. It's a lot of frustration. Mr Gaál is an honorable man, but at the time when his party was in the government, he did little. But what I don't understand at all, which is totally unacceptable – totally unacceptable! . This is what Mr Kogler did here a few minutes ago and what the colleague Pilz does. – It is also significant that Mr Pilz is not even here today, that the subcommittee on airspace monitoring was only present in two out of five meetings, and that only in order to abuse this subcommittee, as well as the plenary, as a media platform: for submissions, denunciations and for criminalizations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Incredible!]] This is unacceptable and unbearable, and I am sorry that Professor Van der Bellen is not here now. [[Abg. Murauer: Van der Bellen is not here! He's ashamed!]] It shows a high level of sensitivity when such statements as were made yesterday by a liberal colleague are made here. It would be desirable for him to have the same sensitivity to the way in which his own colleagues, the Green Group, make policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: There he would have enough to do!]] There he would have an immediate, very deserving task; that would be something where he could work. I hope Mrs. Lunacek, you order this, I can't do it myself now. Back to the budget. – Why is it so important that we have this budget, this double budget, this increase in the budget? Because it serves the “little man, ” that“ little man ” you so often have – a pure lip confession from you! – strapatize, namely the soldier and the ground defense. [[Abg. Silhavy: The “little men ” are at home with the liberals!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who pays?]] Mr. Cap, do you have anything left for the basic military officer and for the soldier or not? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Are these little soldiers and small groundmen?]] There are also small soldiers, and they are also groundmen. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Murauer.]] So, there we are. For these – and the examples have been brought – this budget is used in the form of what they claim. If we are citizens of eight months of their lives – I emphasize: eight months of their lives! – obligation to provide a service to the State, then that State has the “damn” duty and guilt to give them what they need to be able to provide their service, their service accordingly. That's exactly what makes this budget sure! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But who pays?]] So we are now implementing what you have repeatedly called for, again and again, what you have never implemented when you were in the government. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Yes, but who pays the interceptors?]] Mr Cap! I'll have another sugar for you. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I don't want sugar, I want to know who pays the catchers!]] All of this is now included in the budget. Another thing: For 30 years there has been an axis SPÖ Federal Chancellor – socialist or Social Democratic Finance Minister. For 30 years it has been this axis, from 1970 to 2000. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: This is going to be a three to four! I'll write you in the classbook!]] Faith You're telling me: That was not an axis of good for the defense of the state! I emphasize: no axis of good! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Because they don't know why they praise!]] I'll finish. I spoke a few days ago of the paradigm change, of the paradigm change, as this Austrian government has designed. I tried to illustrate this at the time: Away from a policy of “wash me the fur, but don’t make me wet,” to clarity and truth, away from a policy of cosmetic policy measures, to a policy of courageous and consistent addressing problems. I quote today – and this is now a quote that I dedicate to the social-democratic defence policy in particular and especially to my colleague Cap – an Austrian classic, namely grill par. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Now the level is rising! But who pays it?]] I repeat: Away from a policy that is marked as follows; second elevator, Matthias: “This is the curse of our noble house: To strive in half ways and to half-deed with half the means’ – towards a policy of yes or no, because there is no means here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6351	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. The clock will be set to 7 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6369	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to say a few words by Mr Ikrath: Your comparison tends, if you have found that our club head Van der Bellen should look at his own people instead of criticizing colleagues from the house, like Mr Scheuch. The words that we heard yesterday from Mr Scheuch will never hear you from a green man! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The occupation of the speaker's seat, for example, by Mrs. Haidlmayr!]] On the comments of Mr Grossruck: You told my colleague, Kogler, when he spoke, that the judge was already on his heels. Mr Grossruck! If a green person criticizes the awarding practices and refers to federal budgetary law – that's why it happened at the time – and then you accuse him that the judge is already on his heels, then I'm just telling you: Be careful, because then you are already moving on to the heels of Mr Haider and also of the current Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer, who some time ago meant that government-critical Members may have to be prosecuted. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: This is incredible: to pull the reverse!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you're upset, it's just that it's true what I blamed you here. That's it! Otherwise you wouldn't be so excited! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In order to come to the military state defense now. – Mr Minister, you said that the accusations made by our group because of the procurement of Eurofighters were incorrect, that everything had been done properly, that the accusations of corruption had been left empty. Minister! I'm just wondering: Why vote Your government fractions don't belong to an investigative committee if everything's all right anyway? [[Abg. Wittauer: Because we are against waste of time and pointless investigation committees!]] Then you will give information to this Parliament and to the people who want to know exactly, because these accusations are in the room, within the framework of an investigation committee. Then trust me! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Don't say that's all right anyway, the accusations wouldn't be true! – Trust You are! Tell me to a committee of inquiry! Then we can clarify this, and if everything is all right, then that will be determined by this committee of inquiry. It's wonderful if that's the way it is! But trust yourself! Tell me about it and not just say that these are massive accusations, which would not all vote! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am in favour of the liberal Clubobmann Scheibner that he at least said he did not talk to the companies during the procedure – unlike Finance Minister Grasser! The Minister admitted this. I say: That is a bit lazy, ladies and gentlemen, and this calls for a committee of inquiry. You won't come around for that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to add two more points, which are deciduous and in other ways relating to the defence budget. On the one hand, the military attachés: In my opinion – and I will explain why – savings would have been possible. Especially at a time when savings are being made, in which the population is massively burdened, it is not really understandable that the principle will be violated, as formulated in the original 1957 Council of Ministers' lecture, when military attachés were first sent, namely, to act properly and sparingly. In contrast, in recent months there have even been plans to increase the number of military attachés and send more. Do you know who's been head of the Department of Defense since recently? – The former Member of Parliament, young of the liberals! We all know him as one who is not on the ground of the Austrian nation. I don't really think that's a proper positioning of an official. Unfortunately, he has known that he feels as a German and that he does not have so much to do with the Austrian nation. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: He always wanted to go to the Bundestag!]] That would be a criticism that such a person is responsible for the military attachés who represent Austria abroad. From the high reputation of Austria abroad – I think this is very problematic. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Apart from that, in recent months the plan was to send attachés to Cairo and Tehran in addition to the one already residing in Damascus. I have already wondered what this probably means for a neutral country, for the neutrality policy orientation, when in the Middle East – certainly a conflict region – in addition to the embassies we have anyway, military attachés are being sent, while at the same time diplomatic relations with Israel are in a difficult situation, because Israel does not yet send an ambassador to Austria for known reasons, whether this would not have been a rather unfavourable failure for Austria's neutrality policy to send additional military attachés to this region, while the one responsible for Israel is in Ankara. Ladies and gentlemen! We asked these questions in the Committee on Budgets, and the answer, I must say, was happy. [[Abg. Wittauer: Surprising!]] I am pleased to note that it is now the case that “The Arab Republic of Egypt” – I quote from the response to the request from the Budget Committee – “and the Islamic Republic Iran in military diplomacy will be assisted by the military attaché residing in the Arab Republic of Syria and will not be sent to its own attachés. I am pleased because I have the impression that it was possible here to achieve a change of position by opening up the public. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But let me say a few basic things about this Austrian military attaché: So if there's a military attaché in Damascus, I'm wondering what he's doing there. Is he there, for example, to assist the United States in the search for weapons of mass destruction? Is that a reason, or what else does he do? It also seems questionable to me that there are defence attachés in many EU countries: Belgium, Germany, Paris, Athens, Rome, London. In times when a joint diplomatic corps are being considered for the EU, I wonder whether this is still true today, ladies and gentlemen. I think that it is no longer timely, and in times when a common European Diplomat Corps is to be called upon to deal with a common European foreign policy, including security policy, our own national military attachés in the EU countries are probably something that is still antiquarian and does not correspond to a modern foreign and security policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: What do you think we will be there?]] This double-difference between diplomatic service and military attachés is something I think it should be discussed further, and in times of great savings and burdens on the population, it is likely that the question should not be reduced there and savings could be made. Let me come to a last point: Mr Minister, you have said that Austria – and I agree with you – has acquired a high international reputation by tens of thousands of Austrian soldiers who have participated in UN peace missions over the last decades. That's right! The problem, however, is that there is far too little money in the current budget for these international missions. It is also a fact that, just a few days ago, Austria – and you have said this yourself – is putting five soldiers for the robust mission of the EU that will go to Congo under UN mandate if there is no political solution before. Minister! Please allow me to comment: I'd rather, you didn't do anything and you left it at all. An acceptable alternative would only be that we do a lot. But five soldiers – nothing against those who will do so – will have an important task to do – in view of what is happening in this region, given that in the budget of the Foreign Office, the funds for the UN Peace Mission MONUC, which is already in place there, are reduced by €3 million for this year, seem to me to be just like a drop on the hot stone. We all know from newspaper reports how dramatic the situation in Congo is, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I would like to say: As an foreign politician, it is not really acceptable to me that there is a lot of money missing for international missions in the defence budget, precisely because it is also about Austria's high reputation abroad. [[Abg. Wittauer: I thought we had the Foreign Minister for Foreign Policy!]] I believe that the reduction of international participation in recent years has damaged this high reputation. All of this is in a situation where, at the same time, the financial and security-political nonsensical euro fighters are to be purchased, for which the money is available. This is not the most important thing, but it is an important reason, ladies and gentlemen, why we will not give this budget our approval. It's an important part.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6585	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please. [[Abg. Wittauer: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Voluntary speaking time!]] Completely voluntary!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6619	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the past, we liberals have always been in favour of adequate airspace surveillance, even when it would have been easy to vote against the Dragon purchase out of the opposition. In opposition too, the security of our country was more important to us than opportunistic policy, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, operate. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The last few days have been rather sleepy in your contributions, but despite everything, I feel like once again giving you instruction on military matters and airspace surveillance. [[Abg. Gradwell: It would have failed, you won't do it!]] I hope you write it with me, because you don't remember anyway. The obligation to monitor airspace is necessarily the result of the legal obligations associated with the ever-increasing neutrality. At the time, this construction was a motive for the four great powers to recognize the full sovereignty of Austria. Therefore, those who want to be consistent must understand and accept airspace surveillance and security as an integrated part of Austrian security policy. If there is something on an independent and neutral Austria, it cannot let the willingness to protect our home country end a few meters above the ground. If you want to make the sovereignty and neutrality of our Republic the subject of experiments, you should demand this with open vision. It should not be over the back door of populism, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, the new machines have to be bought for neutrality reasons, the old ones have flown out. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, as you are so worried about financing: The international commuting operations make it possible for this pilot to cost virtually nothing. [[Abg. Mandak: Where do you get this?]] Yes, these are expert opinions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: You don't believe that yourself!]] These are expert opinions, I have made myself smart, because I want to say something that really has a background, and that is why I try to teach you that this is such an essential point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Heinz, I'm coming to talk to you. I have expected this reaction from all of you here, but ladies and gentlemen, No word I said here now comes from me! That's what the Charly Schweitzer said. All these quotations are from the Stenographical Protocols, from speeches you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, have held here in this House. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Those were red quotes!]] These are debates by a Dr. Preiß and an ing. Ressel, both Social Democrats. The latter, as I mentioned earlier, said: The planes are “fleet out, ” and therefore new ones need to be purchased. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. When was that?]] Or the ex-juso sitting here normally Arbitrator said: Take-off hunters are purchased. – Mr Cap, have you forgotten? That's the proof! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I never said that!]] The Wendehals policy implemented by you also provides for me – hand to heart! – very often for happiness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] The coronation is the decision of the SPÖ Party Board, about which you have reported here in the House – literal quote –: “Why are you getting upset” – that was probably to the Greens, I can imagine – “It does not cost anything, it is practically for nothing because of the counter-businesses.” [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] [[Abg. Mandak: And you believe that?]] So that's strange. That's exactly what you blame us! [[Abg. Rest-Hinterseer: Do you really believe this?]] We are all realistic about this, it is not in vain, we know, but there are counter-businesses and they mean a boost for the economy. But the Social Democrats then said it was for nothing. [[Abg. Mandak: And what do you say? Don't always hide behind foreign words!]] The Social Democrats say that you are experts in this area. Now we want to believe you, and now you can't do that again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Mandak: Well, do you believe it? Do you believe it?]] I am talking about the Social Democrats, the state defence and military matters, you have nothing to say anyway. [[towards Greens]] You were always against it, you will always be against what this government will do. It is interesting to me that the Social Democrats do not know what they said yesterday, and in terms of content, I believe today, they have no idea at all. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you what President Fischer has said in the government negotiations in 1999 or has negotiated with the ÖVP, of course with the hope – we all understand this; with the twinkling of our eyes, because we naturally have to accept it – to be members of the next government. The negotiating phrase is: The purchase of these airspace surveillance aircraft is fixed and the re-foundation of assistance and foreign operations decided. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is proof to me that the SPÖ has agreed to this purchase without restriction and will therefore now agree. That's a logical consequence. I do not want to go further on the attitude of the SPÖ spokesperson, Mr Gaál, because he is the only one who is hurting me by the Social Democrats. I feel almost sorry for him, for he has given up on the pressure of his own group everything he used to be worth in terms of security policy. That's the truth! The various statements made by the honourable Member Gaál are really well documented. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Your dirt bubble campaign will be like many others...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6826	Mr Deputies, please take that expression back immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6841	Sorry! – Campaign.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6859	It's okay.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6875	You are unable to pursue a responsible policy, so you have no place in this government. Nor is her opposition policy better, it costs the taxpayer only money.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6902	Mrs Hagenhofer's next speech. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6920	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Defence! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Ikrath, you meant that the Ministry of Defence had been successful for the first time in the budget of the Turnaround. I say: This is business and technically flawless, but if the turnaround is the goal in the future, then the consequence must be that, even with all other ministries, special purchases should be taken out of the normal budget, because that is what you wanted to say, but already the citizens must pay. I don't think you can keep that secret either. You can already talk about Turnaround, but the overview of the general budget will of course be very difficult in such turnarounds, and you have to say that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Ikrath also meant that the Minister of Defence was the business manager of the year. I quite agree, because if you look at the budget – and I think it was necessary to add these €69 million – then you know that the presuppositions that this budget brings are enormous. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: This is an old load that the socially democratically dominated governments have left behind!]] The pre-taxes for 2003 alone, provided the figures are right, make up € 504 million, and this, of course, already limits the overall budget. From this point of view, it is also clear that the Minister of Defense must also make a plan adjustment – even the Minister of Defence has said here today that he has addressed the planning situation – that is, he needs to reduce personnel. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I'm sure that's what it's called! The Federal Chancellor spoke again yesterday about the German army reform. What does a reduced army mean? Let us be so honest and tell people outside that the money costs – even in the state budget something is planned – because you cannot send people 55 years old home and do not make a social plan for them. Every other company has to do the same, and so does it, so the federal army has to do it. All of this, however, limits the budget. If the Minister of Defense does so and in addition has to introduce a computer organization structure – it has also been criticized by the Court of Auditors that the management of materials is still being done by hand – which, as can be read in the Court of Auditors report, has been working for five, six or seven years, then this is very, very difficult. I would also like to say that it is a ministry which is extremely badly treated by the Minister of Finance – and this is not the case this time by the Social Democrats. It is a finance minister who comes from the blues and is currently partyless. But that is also said because you always blame the Red Finance Ministers for the tactic of the scarce army budgets. But I wanted to consider another aspect. Mr. Minister of Defence! The “Women in the Army” project has been a long-term goal, it has also been well accepted and applied accordingly. It has also been shown that women have greatly improved the situation in the army, the struggle between them in the army. This is confirmed by soldiers, who also confirm executives who are sitting on top of the gallery today and who listen to these contributions. I have one more question, Mr Minister, and I have to say: For this, money will also be used. If, as a result of an answer to a question, 50 out of 204 soldiers leave the German army after training, the question arises why this is so. They have listed problems in the family, a false professional image – and that of 23.1 percent each – and it is the operating climate, it is health problems, problems in training, problems with the commanders, problems with the comrades, the body load and mental stress. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Minister, I ask you: Can't health problems, physical stress, and mental stress actually be effects of the operating climate? Do not press it, or do not press it, namely, that valuable training is not lost through exits in this area. This is also true in other establishments, but if a quarter goes off from the staff when a fluctuations occur from a quarter, you have to look at the question as a farmer: What are the reasons for this, and where can one start financially to improve this situation? That is why I would ask you, Mr Minister, to pay particular attention to this aspect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6975	The next speaker is Mrs Stadler. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6993	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Mrs Hagenhofer, I can correct you: Mr. Platter, Federal Minister, did not talk about "planning reduction", but about a moderate increase in the number of plans for foreign operations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hagenhofer: I just said...!]] The debate on security in our country has been very detailed in the last few weeks and months in this House. The “Military Affairs” budget in 2003 and 2004 is a very clear commitment by our Federal Government to the Federal Army or a clear commitment to ensuring the protection of the population on the ground and in the airspace. On Tuesday, Mr Weinzinger said: Airspace surveillance doesn't help women. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, for me as a woman, but especially as a mother, the safety of my children, the safety of my family is my top priority! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Mandak, today as a mother you have called for the release of soft drugs. [[Abg. Mandak: I called for the decriminalization of cannabis!]] I don't want that! I want priority for the safety of my children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What if there is a real crisis or danger? – Then it is important that our federal army has an appropriate and modern equipment to ensure the safety of the people. Every responsible politician has the task of ensuring the protection and security of people, of citizens. You too, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, have very responsible politicians in your ranks. My colleague, your colleague Mayor Gerhard Reheishat on Pentecost showed great responsibility when floods threatened, and took care of the people in Imst. I am convinced that he will also ensure that planned conversion measures are carried out and that a pick-up pool will be built. He will also ensure that these funds are provided for and planned in the budget. Now I'm asking you, Gerhard, and I'm asking colleagues: Why is this responsibility at the municipal border from Imst to the end? Why not assume this responsibility in this House? This is the task of our Members: The security of people throughout the country must be our concern! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Bravo!]] [[Abg. Gradwelt:... has not given up at the municipal border!]] Security is not an issue for polemics, ladies and gentlemen, the security is far too serious that we could use it for party policy polemics. She's not suitable for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] At the end only my appeal: I'm appealing to Your sense of responsibility for all Austrians! Let us confess to the security of our citizens in great commonness!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7115	Mrs Mandak spoke in favour of an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7136	Mrs Stadler said in her previous speech that I would have called for the release of soft drugs. - That's not true! I have called for the decriminalization of cannabis, and I am in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7180	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7198	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Defence! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Stadler, you have referred to my colleague Mr Reheis. I can assure you that for no one in the Socialist Group, the sense of responsibility at the Community border is over! You can be sure of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. School:... with an excellent mayor?]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I can also tell you that I am in a beautiful Lower Austrian community at home – my mayor's colleague is sitting here – and I am a councillor for health and civil protection. I would like to say that I am also aware of my responsibility there. In this context too, I am very grateful for the good cooperation with the Austrian Federal Army. I would also like to say that to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to express my warmest thanks to all the employees, all the servants of the Federal Army in all the batches and all the officers, as well as to the basic defence servants for their tireless commitment, their willingness to work and for their commitment, whether in the case of disaster aid, or also in the operations they always perform at large sporting events. I know exactly – and certainly this picture is well remembered to you – if we all watch the ski slopes, how the basic defense workers have to take the slopes for hours to enable these events. So it is also in many other sports areas, and for that it is a warm thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This also applies particularly to the use of the German army in flood disaster and in all other disasters in the past. If I'm just thinking about the flood: At the time, 12,000 soldiers were in service around the clock! There the view of all Austrians falls on this German army, everyone is proud of it and happy that we have such a civil protection force. Only – and this is the big “only” – unfortunately, important pioneer equipment and important basic equipment are missing! I think and fear that with the budget template we now have, this important basic instrument, these important pioneer devices cannot be purchased. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Unfortunately!]] Unfortunately, Minister of Defence! That is why we cannot vote in favour of this budget at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This budget – and that is to be said to you once again – is the lowest defence budget with 0.7 percent of GDP, ladies and gentlemen! To do this, we can only say: That's not going to happen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In contrast to the lack of the most necessary basic equipment and the lack of important pioneer equipment, you will create these unnecessary, sintering combat aircraft. No one in this country understands that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] No one can understand this, even the more than 600,000 signers of popular desire last year. They certainly don't understand why, despite all the protests, despite the many, many cuts that you add to the Austrians with the presentation of the new pension right, with the cuts in health care, with the really evocative cuts in education, so much money is spent on unnecessary fighter planes. No human can understand that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Defence Minister, you are dealing with a finance minister who has promised you €250 million, but now, I believe, you are getting €70 million. That's a "fashy" story! The Minister of Finance obviously needs his money for very different things, we heard it yesterday. He's a brilliant self-accompaniment, and he spends a lot of money on that. But for the state defense and for you, Minister of Defense, to urgently need more money in order to absorb in the future all the additional costs for the German army, he does not loosen up any extra euro. In fact, you are very sorry, Minister of Defence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I really can't feel pity, but I'd like to tell you one more time. It is a pity to have to take note of this difficult budget for all Austrians, and especially for the defence of the country. Therefore: There is certainly no agreement from Social Democracy, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7306	Mr Kößl will now speak to the House for 4 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7340	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Austrian federal army delivers great achievements. I think we can all agree in this that there is a great federal army, which is always in place when it says: In the case of disasters, border intervention, assistance or crisis cases, as we had at the border of Styria and Slovenia. It is therefore incomprehensible to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the SPÖ – I do not expect the Greens to do so at all – rides on a track in the area of safety which is not comprehensible. They are quite different: If I have government responsibility, then I am also in favour of comprehensive national defence; if I am in opposition, then the security idea ceases in the protection of disasters. Ladies and gentlemen, this attitude is unfortunate! There is a lack of state-supporting acceptance, and this is particularly objectionable in the field of security. Each responsible government will recognise the internal and external security of a country and its population as an essential priority. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Do you really want that?]] That is why it is extremely encouraging – and I congratulate you, Minister! – that there is a budget to be decided today, which has a significant increase compared to 2002, by €69 million. This budgetary facility will allow the scope of the task to be taken into account. Of course, we all wish ourselves a higher budget in all areas. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: All save for the Eurofighter!]] Estimated Members of the SPÖ: Either you stand for safety – or you're on and on and on against security. You prove that you are currently standing on a rail where you have nothing at all for a reasonable security policy, for the security of the population in our country. [[Abg. Gaál: Take a look at security policy for the last 30 years!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You have distance...!]] Already in the Committee on Budgets and again today, the Minister has led to important modernisations. I am also pleased that these considerations are coming in the next few years: Renewal and renovation of the barracks, improvement of man equipment, optimization of training, modernisation of the fleet, but above all, to acquire those equipment necessary for international use in disasters and, of course, in general. How important the German army has been to our country – this has already been addressed several times today – has proved the use of disasters last year. 800 000 hours of service have been provided by presenters and members of our federal army. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You like your text!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! As a security spokesperson, I would like to thank you very much for the assistance already carried out for years on the border. 2 200 forces of the Federal Army perform great performance at the EU's external border and contribute significantly to raising the security of the population accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: Anyone who stands for security will vote in favour of this budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7438	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Mr deputies, five minutes are welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7457	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kößl has tried to accuse the SPÖ, but she is not acting in a state. [[Abg. Kößl: There is no “a little” security!]] Dear colleague Kößl, I can remind you of your Minister of the Interior. You have to explain to me what is state-bearing in your policy, for example, if you look at the criminal statistics that the crime explodes and the intelligence rate goes down dramatically, so that in reality the security of citizens and tourists is threatened! [[Abg. We're still the number one!]] And you're talking about state-bearing action? – It’s a scandal what you’re doing here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Mr Kößl said that SPÖ had nothing left for safety. Mr Kößl, look at the budget of this Minister with the Minister of Finance. If I may allow the comparison... – Let me speak out! [[Abg. Kößl: Is there a plus or not?]] You've been able to talk inconveniently, too. If I look at, for example, the 2000 budget, which amounts to 0.86 percent of defence expenditure, as measured by gross domestic product. You, the ÖVP and the FPÖ, have always demanded a massive 1.5 percent, of which you were almost half away in 2000. [[Abg. Kößl: You are advocating yourselves as an opposition party!]] In 2003, Mr Kößl, the value has already dropped to 0.75%. [[Abg. You're far away! There is no “a little ” security!]] And in 2004...
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7566	Mr Kößl, please calm down! Make this conversation later.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7581	Mr Kößl! If the budget is still adjusted so to speak, about €30 million of structural impact on staff, if it is adjusted by the 60 million of the additional effort for military construction administration and by the 28 million of the 3 percent bond, then a more lop-bare amount will come out for the German army as a budget approach! – And you say here that we have nothing left for security? [[Abg. We're talking about a plus!]] The highest military budget has been under a Social Democratic Minister! Take note of this! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The use of the budget for the defence of the state is nevertheless significant for the understanding of this government. It dominates, as you can see, the grandeur's desire and concessions to the economic lobby. The working conditions – as in the interior – of the employees, say: the soldiers and also the citizens, you really don't care. They hold rigidly at the purchase of these sinteurous camera fighters. You brutally press through a pension reduction, and you think that you can do a good job for the federal army. Don't miss out on this, in truth you're harming the federal army with this policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, in fact it is: While you are buying here in a little comprehensible way the sinteurous interception hunters, which bring billions of business to the stage under dubious circumstances, the infrastructure of the military is massively starved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. School]] [[Abg. Murauer: Where are they, Parnigoni, the “dispute circumstances ”? Where are they? ... be made bad!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Murauer, who, like me – and you can ask colleagues Schöls – will visit many barracks over the course of a year, such as those in my constituency in Weitra, Allensteig and Horn, and then in four-eye discussions with the military, the officers and also the staff representatives, who will hear exactly where the significant shortcomings can be found, for example in the equipment, in the fleet or in the barracks infrastructure. [[Abg. Schöls: We will come to speak on it, Mr Parnigoni!]] This is just as it is in the field of internal security. It's no different there. You don't care about the working conditions for the soldiers – in this case – in the other case for gendarmen, police officers and criminal officers. It's about prestige objects that cost billions. [[Abg. Cattle: Pure populism!]] There is every means right for you to serve your business lobby! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schöls: We will still come to speak on the military visits!]] [[Abg. Kößl: There is no “a little” security! Either you're for security or not!]] However, I would like to thank the thousands of soldiers working in the context of flood use. They were also very successful in my community and have fulfilled their task perfectly. It would therefore be particularly important to provide for appropriate resources in these two budgets so that the German army can fulfil these tasks in the field of civil protection, but also in the international obligation. [[Abg. Kößl: Civil protection, that's where it stops!]] That's where you saved. Then take away the necessary means from the federal army and put them in sinteurs, unnecessary warplanes. – This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] [[Abg. Murauer: For example, the “Black Hawk”!]] For the purchase of the "Black Hawk", the Minister of Defence is still missing the €200 million from the Minister of Finance. He hasn't got that yet, so don't talk about it like that, Mr Murauer. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Shashing: He must present himself!]] I come to the conclusion: I would like to point out that, with this 2003 and 2004 budget, you are in fact doing no good for the German army and are taking the opportunity to prepare yourself for the European tasks accordingly. [[Abg. Kößl: You had the chance!]] We Socialists therefore do not agree with this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7818	The next speaker is Mrs Machne. The speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7836	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! My topic is air space surveillance again. Unfortunately, my colleagues Pilz and Kogler are not here, but the colleague, Oellinger. [[Abg. Oillingers: They're just monitoring the airspace and what's below!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] In the last few days and weeks, the Green Group has addressed many statements, suspicions and accusations relating to the acquisition of surveillance aircraft to our ministers. Gentlemen! I do not understand something, and therefore I would like to address the following question to you: Why not claim the right of all Austrian citizens and return ad to the public prosecutor's office? – That would be the fairer way in my eyes. The method you have chosen, namely to put allegations into the room and repeat them continuously, is a very unfair one. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] The accusations do not become more correct either, but you do so apparently according to the motto: There's going to be something going on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Yes!]] However, as we have seen from the judgment of the Social Democrats that we have received today, this bill does not go into effect. I'm convinced that all this will be broken up, empty balloons. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prehauser.]] However, I would like to say something quite different about Chapter 40: First of all, I would like to thank the Federal Army and emphasize its importance. – Many colleagues have done so before me, but I would like to do so now from the point of view of East Tyrol. Osttirol has 150 three-thousands, many avalanches, of course many wild streams, and therefore our federal army still has many tasks for the civilian population in addition to the national defence and the protection of the borders. For example, there are wall exits, floods, avalanches, even bridges tore away every year, and the German army is always helpful at the place. If, like me, you have been active in local politics for many years, you can particularly appreciate the importance of this army, especially for East Tyrol and appreciate the great achievements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is also my concern to thank the army sports club. He provides very valuable services, especially in youth work, but he also helps with all our sporting events. – I was always very grateful for being able to resort to the Heeressportsverein. Not for nothing, all 33 Eastern European communities have a partnership with our federal army. In Lienz a large garrison with 150 people is stationed in the cadre and currently 400 ground military servants. You can certainly imagine that this is also an economic factor for our district. I have therefore resolved to speak as a final word a sentence which I have borrowed from the fire brigade: Next to us! Mr. Minister of Defense! Just get us our army!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7930	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper, who speaks to us for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7948	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, it must be noted that much has been discussed about the chapter on national defence in the last few days. – That has not been the case for a long time. [[Abg. Grill: But many of you did not listen!]] It has been mentioned several times today that the defense budget has been increased by €70 million. – That's about 4 percent. This increase in the budget will only benefit the troop. Nevertheless, it is unfortunately the smallest budget since the German army existed. It is intended to be used for the training and flight operations of the Black Hawk transport helicopters and the three Hercules transport aircraft. Necessary procurement of trucks and buses as well as radios, computers and so on should continue to be financed. In addition, 10 000 combat suits and – in view of the future participation of Austria in the EU intervention force – new ABC protection suits are also acquired, and we would note here that we would need far more combat suits for our soldiers, because the protection and security of our soldiers must be worth a lot. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, security must be kept out of party policy. However, our objections to the budget are a concern to understand the future of our federal army. €50 million was promised to protect the EU's external border, and even if the Minister of Finance does not comply with his commitments, I hope that assistance will remain at the EU's external border as long as it is necessary. As I could see from the media reports, you, Federal Minister Platter, also assured you that assistance will be maintained during your visit to Burgenland. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, this commitment has proved to be very successful. We are particularly grateful to the soldiers, because they are exposed to a special situation that requires the most nervous and physical use. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These border crossings by refugees are not always about criminals, as falsely claimed. There's family-sicks behind that, which also require our soldiers to take all their strength. These soldiers are doing great. From this point of view, I would also like to thank the soldiers and their superiors for the exemplary work in border use on behalf of my fellow citizens. [[We welcome the SPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Discussions also led to the accusation by a former assistant soldier that refugees who had already found themselves on Austrian territory were brought back to the border and subsequently rejected. Unfortunately, this procedure should not have been an individual case, and I would therefore ask you, Minister of State, to follow up on this matter. I have asked you and the Minister of the Interior questions and I am very excited about what the answers will look like. Ladies and gentlemen! The purchase of the interceptors is still a matter that will continue to give rise to discussions, because our people cannot understand that these fighter planes will be purchased by more than €2 billion and they will be asked to pay for it. The majority of the population is opposed to the purchase of these sintering fighter aircraft. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You have decided against this majority. This policy is no longer acceptable to us, so we cannot accept this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8010	The next speaker is Mr Pack. The speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8028	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a recent member of the Defence Committee, I would like to begin by saying, as all other Members have, how important this increase in the budget was by €69 million. However, air jumps cannot be started yet. Ladies and gentlemen! This budget is an important signal for the state defense in Austria and for ensuring the fulfilment of both the current and, above all, the future tasks of the Federal Army. It is an important signal for all members of the army and especially for all future young groundmen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can also say that as a former defence officer – in my view this time is not so long ago – this budget increase is sending to the basic defence servants how important their service is for Austria and how much this federal government appreciates our army. Colleagues from the SPÖ! In fact, the situation in training and in the barracks is not so bad. I can confirm that, because I'm also often in the barracks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This budget increase guarantees basic defence servants benefits through new buildings and renovation of accommodation, improvement of kitchen equipment, re-purchasing of motor vehicles, improvement of man-made equipment and optimisation of training through the use of new techniques. As a former military representative and current member of the Federal Force Complaint Commission, I know that these steps will lead to an improvement in the daily life of soldiers. Since the beginning of the year, around 200 extraordinary complaints have occurred to the Commission and many of them are due to lack of investment in their cause. At this point I would like to thank Mr Platter for having made it clear since the beginning of his term of office how important this Commission and its unanimous decisions are. – Thank you many times, Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Federal Government and the Austrian People's Party are behind the German army, behind a professional equipment and also behind the relevant finances. It is of fundamental importance for groundmen and cadres when the appropriate equipment is available or purchased throughout the army – not only on the ground, but also for air safety. Mr Federal Minister, I can only support your thoughts on reforming the presence service. The basic defence servants should be given the opportunity to continue training in languages, sports and other areas during their presence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is important so that the young recruits, who after eight months or perhaps in the future have also completed their basic service after a shorter period of time, can continue to be convinced of their service to Austria, of the spiritual defense and of the national defense. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8093	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. Preferred speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8111	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Do you know that we have been allowed to experience ODP or FPÖ defence ministers for 20 years? [[Abg. Parnigoni: Rather “must”! Have to suffer!]] That is why I can also say that the German army's resources have not yet been affected by the fact that the Social Democrats had exercised all-power here. On the contrary: The German army has benefited from the fact that we have taken care of social democrats to see what the Federal Ministers considered to be good for the German army. Ladies and gentlemen! The serious problem in the debate about the German army and the national defence is the ÖVP in all discussions. The ÖVP believes that the German army – as well as in agriculture and small and medium-sized enterprises – has leased the exclusive right of representation. [[Abg. Wittauer: But in agriculture I understand! You don't have farmers, I'm a farmer!]] – Mr Wittauer, are you at the ÖVP? I have something to say to you, too. [[Abg. Wittauer: But please stop talking about agriculture! You don't understand!]] The ÖVP believes that if it has to make concessions to other parties, its goals in the recruitment process are crossed. The fact that the Freedom Party is now doing well and that the ÖVP is giving the majority it does not have at 42 percent is its own matter. Mr Wittauer! You know: It is true that fresheners, krunes and your colleague Scheibner, the current clubman, were ministers who were allowed to co-shape accordingly. After Lichal and Fassleven, Platter now has the equipment in hand. [[Abg. Wittauer: Minister Fassleven was not even with the German army!]] And our task is to control what these gentlemen are doing for the benefit of the federal army. [[Abg. Schöls: This is a dangerous threat!]] In the brochure of the budget estimate, the figures are very well prepared: There is someone like me, who grew up in an ÖVP community, careful and looks what is hidden in it. You don't want to believe what can be read out between a twister and a gun post to the next armament. I can only imagine what a twister and a shot break is. I'm guessing you have to shoot anything at the troop practice site, that can be already. Everyone can imagine what a arms acquisition is. Only what weapons they are can't be imagined, because that doesn't really stand in there. However, there are a few small examples that need to be addressed: The Minister said that he wished for a lot of present-day servants. – I agree with him – as opposed to a report from his party groups. At the time of his arrival, there was no mention of a halving of the federal army and the abolition of the obligation of military service. – I can guarantee that we are at least the general obligation to do so up to now. [[Abg. Amon: At the 1999 National Council election...!]] Mr President, we do not have 1999 but 2003. If you haven't understood it yet: Time is progressing, the ÖVP remains behind it. [[Abg. Wittauer: I have seen how often you have changed your mind in the past!]] I can only tell you: We have different goals! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If there are many young soldiers, you need well-functioning soldiers' homes. I cannot understand why the pre-financing for the administration in the military homes is almost halved, because the calculation of results says the opposite. On the other hand, there is, for example, the field of aircraft maintenance. There's a lot to it. There are, for example, exact accounts for spray consumption, and it can be seen that 11 million have been estimated, but only 8 million have been consumed, but 12 million again next time. What positions should be hidden if reality looks completely different? It is known that the aircraft will be reduced by the maintenance costs. Then they no longer fly, so they can no longer consume fuel. It is about millions who are not comprehensible, so there is no transparency that is supposed to exist. Ladies and gentlemen! There have been many discussions lately. The interceptors, fighters, whatever they are called, were in all mouths. We have a Minister of Finance, who put himself very much in the balance sheet here, in contrast to the Minister of Defence at the time, who took a different view. Today, we have a minister of economics who excellently dominates the negotiation of discounts. That is why I make a proposal: The Federal Chancellor may make a change of these two ministers! The Minister of Economic Affairs is expected to move to the Ministry of Defence. – He could bring out something for us through his negotiating skill, so that the federal army could still have something left. [[Abg. Wittauer: You can't be as good as the Social Democrats: you said the interceptors are free!]] And the Minister of Finance, Mr Wittauer, could sell in his evocative way the population the “economic platform” which the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has in the Space has been set, but its existence is not recognizable. I have listened to the Minister for Finance in his last speech and have to say: It is capable of all kinds of things and can give a lot of support to the people with PR-Gags. – However, he will not agree! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The German army suffers from the exorbitant expenditure incurred by the misconception in the acquisition of these aircraft, which in future will no longer provide the necessary money for the improvement of the federal army's infrastructure, so that the soldiers really have what they need. Mr Minister of Defence, you have us on your side when it comes to spending money on it and when it is presented crediblely. [[Abg. Wittauer: What you did not give to the federal army! That's the truth!]] – Mr Collegue, what You told us here, I don't want to comment. I don't want to compromise or even insult you, but you have no idea what you're talking about! You have once again proved that you are dancing at the wrong wedding! In any case, we cannot accept this law!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8300	The next speaker is Mr Böhm. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8318	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Safety in the air and on the ground is a great need for all of us. The security of a state can only be ensured if there is good national defence in coordination with a high-quality air defense. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This can even confirm laymen: A state defense on the ground alone is not sufficient for the security of a state. It is essential for every state to ensure that its boundaries in the airspace are safeguarded accordingly. National security does not stop two meters above the ground, as we have heard in recent weeks. We have recognised this problem by the ÖVP, and I thank the Federal Chancellor and the respective ministers for ensuring the security of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why the purchase of the EADS Typhoon Eurofighters has been dealt with in the relevant committees, the details have also been clarified. As a Salzburg entrepreneur and representative of the Austrian SMEs, it is important for me to get into compensation business, and to be connected to the launch of research and development and new technologies are being driven forward. Access to European high-tech technologies is a boost to economic strength fields such as Aerospace, information and communication technology, environmental technology, automated areas and wood technologies. All of this will go into the economy. The Eurofighter partner companies enable local companies and research institutions, among other things, to access European high-tech programmes such as Airbus A380, A400M, Ariane and Galileo. Companies such as Fischer Advanced Composite Components – called FACC in short – Böhler Forging Technology, Pankl Racing Systems, Frequency and many more are the direct beneficiaries of the Eurofighter purchase. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, especially the SPÖ! Your former Minister of Finance, Dr. Hannes Androsch, has also strongly supported and approved the purchase of the EADS Eurofighters. What a smart man! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Look here!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: When was that? 30 years ago? You don't even know him personally!]] As a representative of the Austrian SMEs and in particular as a representative of a sector of welding and cutting technology with more than 1,000 employees employed in our country, I know only too well how important new technologies are and how much we need them. New technologies enable new work techniques, the development of new materials and, especially in our area, new alloys. We will develop and produce these in the future through the innovation and investment boost with our own employees. A branch of the economy is supported and is experiencing a new bloom, which, like many others, was condemned to restructuring as a result of the last world economic developments. Now we have another opportunity to develop, apart from the possibility of maintaining the existing jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The importance of the acquisition of the EADS Eurofighters is also confirmed by a newspaper article of the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten) of 4. June 2003, where under the title “Rieder Hopes That Eurofighter Lands” read the following – I quote –: "The purchase of Eurofighters appears to be fixed and should be decided by Parliament in June. This is a relief for the head of the FACC, Walter Stephan. ‘We have already received additional orders through the interceptors. When the purchase is in place, our good name is also at stake in the industry.” – An Airbus order from EADS worth more than 400 million dollars is already in the bag of the fisherman's daughter. FACC is still waiting for a further 100 to 300 million dollars in volume. “This depends to 50 to 80 percent on Eurofighter’s purchase,” says the Managing Director. – Quotes. So there are countless companies that benefit directly or indirectly from the purchase. More than €4 billion in counter-businesses will be managed. As Salzburger Entrepreneur, I draw my hat in front of this great economic performance. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You talk too fast! You don't understand what you're saying! That's a bad reading what you're doing!]] The Social Democrats have shown us the following in the many committees and subcommittees: From the economy and development of ideas, let alone from their implementation to the feasible, you really have no idea! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am looking forward to seeing the first airspace surveillance devices fly into our country today. They mean security and protection for all Austrians. In this sense: To a secure Austria on the ground and in the air!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8411	The Federal Minister for Defence Platter has now spoken. Time remaining: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8429	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! I have already given my opinion, but it is a need to address two or three questions very briefly. Generally speaking, it is a very objective discussion, and I would like to thank you very much for that. That it is also said from all sides that the defence budget should be a little higher is, so to speak, a positive message for the Austrian Federal Army and a positive message for the defence of the state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, it is always clear that one says it's too little, and the other say it's too much, so we're not going to be so bad. Ladies and gentlemen! A question has been asked by Mrs Lunacek regarding international operations and how these international operations are financed. It should be reported that the common costs are shared between the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, but this is not at the expense of the Ministry of Defence. The common costs are as follows: Even if no posting is carried out, sometimes common costs are incurred, but it is not the task of the state defense or the ministry to carry out this financial coverage, but that is the task of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs in connection with the Ministry of Finance. In addition, when postings are carried out, there is a clear agreement that the costs for small shipments are to be borne up to €0.5 million by the Federal Ministry of State Defense, and everything that goes beyond that is additionally made available. Therefore, we have sufficient opportunities in this budget position because all the larger additional international operations are additionally covered. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I have consciously also spoken for the following reason: This debate has repeatedly called into question the surveillance of airspace, and above all the protection of airspace has been called into question. I can now give you a concrete example that happened just an hour ago. At 12:53 we received the notice that an illegal plane entered our airspace, a Boeing 747/400 from India, on the way from Paris to Bombay. You contacted this plane, but there was no radio contact, so you couldn't talk to the pilot. We didn't know what was happening in this plane and whether it was a danger or not. That was at 12:53. We did an alpha operation at 12:55, so two minutes later. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: In such a case, what is a Eurofighter?]] - You probably don't want to hear that. However, it is very important to me, ladies and gentlemen, that we carry out the safeguarding of the airspace. We have the responsibility for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: But what would a Eurofighter have used?]] [[Calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At 12.55 p.m., two minutes after that, the Dragons ascended. You've been on this plane five minutes later. In turn, we have not been able to see what it is about. No radio contact was possible. The two Dragons have finally accompanied this plane to the border, and there it has been handed over, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: But what are you doing with a Eurofighter?]] [[Lively countercalls at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have responsibility for protecting the airspace. We have to ensure that we carry out the protection of the airspace. They believe that this is not necessary. We, the coalition, believe that it is absolutely right and necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All those who have listened attentively will certainly give me the right. Therefore: Get out of this position! Get away from this security policy mistake and try to go the right way: in the interests of the security of Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Pfeffer said very positively that we have held detailed discussions on defence policy over the last few days. That's right! I am very pleased and can tell you that in the next half year we will deal with security and defence policy most intensively, but also with the task of the Austrian federal army. It will be used by the Bundesheer-Reform Commission and we will carry out detailed considerations on a broad basis with the draft substrategy. They have all been invited to join this Commission, and I assume that we can reach a broad consensus, on the one hand, on what the objective of defence policy is, and on the other hand, on what is the task of the Austrian federal army, so that we can guarantee protection and security in the air and on the ground for the population of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8541	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mrs Stadlbauer has now come to speak, who would like to speak to us for 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8562	Mr President. Minister! High house! Since you, Mr Minister, have now said that everyone has said that they are glad that there is now more money for the defence of the country, I would like to stop your euphoria a little. On the one hand, ladies and gentlemen, there was certainly the message: More money yes, but the money that is available makes sense. Secondly, I would like to ask you how you argue that you already have decisions on new purchases worth €250 million, for example the assistance package, for example the anti-terrorism package, for example the forces for international operations, but in reality, in the budget, only €70 million are available for additional activities. That is, the Minister of Finance has drawn you over the table by €180 million, and you can't really sell that as a success. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: But other colleagues from you have said something else!]] Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For five years, it has been a reality that women also provide military service to the federal army. Once at the beginning, I notice that this was not really an urgent goal for the SPÖ, but now it is fact, and I accept this fact. However, it is now necessary to give these women the same opportunities and the same opportunities as the men find, or in the various areas they need to be prevented by targeted support measures, that women also encounter the so-called glass ceiling in the Federal Army and that career is hardly possible or not possible. I would like to add that in the initial remarks made by the Minister, I noticed that he did not even see women, because he spoke only of the boys who were used as soldiers. Therefore, my impression is that although the ÖVP was very important at the time to open the doors of the federal army to women, now it leaves them in the rain. Now it seems that everything is done for them. Every woman who decides to go to the Federal Army should see how she gets through. I think that is inconsistent, and we must not leave women alone, but we must look closely at their situation and take targeted measures. Recently, the report of the Federal Minister of State Defense on the situation of women in the Federal Army to the National Council was received. It will be discussed in July in the Committee on National Defence. I'm already excited how much time we'll have for it! You can see how high the value is. The report initiates with the finding that the project “Women in the Federal Army” is essentially without problems and that the integration of female soldiers is largely complete. Well, I don't think so. I believe that there is a great need for action, because there are factual barriers to access for women. On the one hand, the failure rate is too high, and on the other hand, the salary is too low in the first half of the year. Recently, we were able to tell the media that women's failure rate is 80 to 90 percent. That is to say, women who have all done the aptitude test are getting out of the way for the first three years for a variety of reasons. That is why the report cannot be drawn up, so we have put forward a request to Minister Platter in advance. The answer has been there since yesterday, and there are many different reasons. We should now analyse these and, on the basis of these statements, we should also set out measures to reduce the default rate. I am glad that we have put the question, but think that it would be your duty, in principle, to collect this data from the outset and to look at it continuously. For payment. Women do not have a military obligation, and that is also good, so it should remain the same. Women have been announced that their involvement in the German army is a new professional perspective. If they are already recruited, however, women also have to be paid differently as compulsory presenters, otherwise with this argument spread the women's sand into the eyes. You should have taken care of it in the budget if you really mean it seriously with the women in the federal army. Mr Minister, I hope that steps will be taken in your reform commission. On the one hand, this means that women will be represented in the Reform Commission, and on the other hand that serious consideration will also be given to how the situation of women can be improved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have not even ignored my questions in the Committee on Budgetary Control, which has been the subject of national defence. Mr. Minister! That's a chance to really prove that you're taking women seriously. I would like to conclude with a quote from a superior of soldiers who was broadcast on the show “Am Schauplatz”. He said: “From the beginning they were very hard and have worked very closely. We had to get used to this first. Maybe that was a woman-specific way. You carry out the orders exactly, and a man says it didn't go. Women are very ambitious and work very well, you can see. They are also very good trainers. They are at least equal to every male trainer.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8613	Mr Magz (PPE). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Long rider for 4 minutes to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8631	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I should also like to warmly welcome a delegation from my constituency, which has also dealt intensively with the procurement of prisoners, with very different opinions. But the incident that the Federal Minister has just described proves how correct it is that we give a security package the consent, even if the opposition does not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should like to recall once again the current APA notification that SPÖ top-privileged politicians have to pay a total of €30 000 in compensation for corruption. – If that’s your kind of security policy that you are following members of a government, then good night, security policy! Thank you, honourable Member. [[Abg. Murauer: Then good night, safety!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! In a survey conducted last year by the Institute for Safe Life in cooperation with an agency, the following conclusions were expressed on the fears of the Austrians: Ten years ago, the fear of environmental destruction was first and foremost. At present, it is in second place with 45 percent of the respondents. Now with 49 percent the fear of war dominates, then place two. The subjective fears, according to the study, have not changed fundamentally in recent years, but the order in the shadow of the individual war events has shifted accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to counter these subjective feelings of fear of the Austrians, it is absolutely necessary to allocate the funds needed by the national defence budget to ensure secure Austria. I can truly congratulate Federal Minister Platter for having made it possible for him to get even an improvement in the short term of his term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, budgets are also about investments: in our troops, also in the economy, in improving man equipment, in the re-purchasing of vehicles, in methods of training, in terms of basic defence, as the Federal Minister has also pointed out, in the position of vehicles and in their operation and maintenance. And it's also about international operations. I think that this is also peaceable and quite a social measure, for example, if the German army is trying to buy drinking water treatment plants and to help with them in crisis regions. The army is helping people, so it is! These investments are worthwhile. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a Salzburg MP, I can also be proud that a radar of the latest generation is now standing in Thalgau on the Kolomannsberg, and this was probably also a decisive event that took place an hour or so ago. With this radar, most of the airspace can be monitored from Salzburg, which of course also includes a high number of detection frequencies. It's an investment worth it. This is an investment in the future, for the security of our Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should also like to congratulate you very warmly, Mr. Commander of our Federal Army, for celebrating the celebration of the 40th anniversary of airspace surveillance. Congratulations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the heights of the security of Austrians, whom we politicians must be very committed to. I would therefore like to thank all the young men who fulfil their citizenship obligations to all the under-offensives, batches and officers who are highly qualified. My thanks, of course, also to the employees of the Ministry of State Defense and, above all, to our Federal Minister Platter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8705	Mr Oellinger is now speaking to us in his second speech today. Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Oellinger: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Why second? I haven't spoken yet today!]] - Excuse me: first word message.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8738	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, in this drama, with which you - almost breathable - have brought in the aircraft incident and thus tried to suggest an up-to-date or threat, it is worth looking closer to. Okay: A Boing 747 flies over Austria, can't be identified at first, doesn't respond to the ground contact, doesn't answer when the interceptors ascend. They, Mr. Federal Minister, reported that this Boing 747 was then accompanied until the departure of the Austrian state territory. Mr. Federal Minister, let's think a little more. What could have happened – or, what happened in other countries? I no longer know exactly which country it was, but I can remember an incident in which a non-or incorrectly identified passenger plane was shot down; 200 or 300 people were in this. [[Abg. Broukal: In the Arab Gulf it was during the 1st century. Golf war! An Arab passenger plane!]] Thank you. As I just heard, it was during the 1st century. Golf war. [[Abg. Murauer: That's why you wanted to buy rockets instead of interceptors to shoot the plane at once? That was a Kostelka proposal at the time!]] [[Further call to the ÖVP.]] But there was another incident. – I do not think anyone – even you, if you would have to make such a decision – would be willing to take a shot and take responsibility for it. So what can happen? [[Call:No passenger plane]] Think of the other situation: It is indeed an aircraft, by the Austrian authorities, military must assume that there is something going on, possibly a terrorist action. – There are also experiences from the USA, from the tragic events of the 11th century. September. And: No one, nor an American president, would make the decision in this situation to launch a passenger plane with 100 or 250 persons, which may also include terrorists. [[Abg. Hornek: The next time it could not be a passenger plane!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] So, what were you going to say to us, Mr Platter, with this example? That we need interceptors to be able to accompany an aircraft that does not report to the Austrian border? [[Abg. Murauer: Of course!]] [[Abg. Murauer: To identify it!]] That can't have been it, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would have expected from your side, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that you would not try to justify interception hunters in 2003 with quotations from 1986, in which there have been quite other threat scenarios! [[Abg. Hornek: That's why it's good that we're in government and not her!]] In the meantime, there are actually other threat scenarios! No matter which country in the world – from the USA to the small Austria –: To find a military response to these new threat scenarios will not be enough. None of these countries deal with military responses to these threat scenarios. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: All countries are wrong – and only you are right!]] I would have liked us to look together at these threat scenarios as to whether terrorism is, whether it is non-governmental warfare – perhaps listen, Mr Murauer! – whether this is the problem of asymmetric warfare. [[Abg. Hornek: What do you think these look like?]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Murauer]] There's a need for new answers! We will certainly not be able to find an answer to these threat images with an upgrade or upgrade. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[New calls from the Abg. Murauer.]] That, Mr Murauer, should be the last one from the second. Iraq war as a result! Do you believe – you don't believe it either, I suppose – that military intervention in the US has actually helped combat terrorism in the Middle East or the Middle East? Faith You do? I'm not sure! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Murauer and Mr Hornek.]] The United States is the strongest military power, a power with which it itself could not take up a highly equipped European Union – without me suggesting that it would be possible at all to imagine that there could be conflicts between the US and the European Union. – But imagine that! Let's go back to the previous topic: What does one of our 18 new Austrian interception hunters do?- Oh, my God! – What I can conclude from the decision to buy the interception hunter: Our interception fleet – the “fleet” of 18 interception hunters – serves the test phase. Austria and the 18 interceptors and the four or six who first come to the country will be used as test objects from which EADS and probably other European countries will learn a lot, because in no other European country will the use of these interceptors take place before the use in Austria. Is this enough to justify the use of interception hunters and a military acquisition of several billion euros? [[Abg. Hornek: What is your strategy?]] [[Further call to the ÖVP.]] Go to the next point. On the part of the ÖVP, in this debate – addressed to our address – it has been said: Be careful, it is only accused: with the “perspective ” of blackening someone! – Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to conclude with the fact that we need to continue to discuss this in the plenary session, please release a committee of inquiry on this matter! Don't be so cowardly and refuse You're not a committee of inquiry! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Always the same leader!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties: If you are really convinced that there is nothing to be found, then you cannot have a problem with an investigation committee! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] In the past, I have repeatedly heard the following argument: We cannot be responsible for setting up a committee of inquiry on this as long as the criminal law side has not been clarified. [[Abg. Amon: There is already a rightful decision!]] That was the one argument at the time. – Such a one has been used from your side, including the SPÖ, to the Causa “Euroteam”. We were then allowed to make an investigation committee before the criminal relevance of the accusations we raised at the time had been clarified. [[Abg. Hornek: Would you like to match the Jarolim with the Eurofighters?]] The investigative committee has found something beyond the legal relevance – it has still not been clarified by “Euroteam” –! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And this is the point, ladies and gentlemen: It is not only about a possible criminally relevant suspicion, but also about the fact that Mr. Grasser – contrary to contract laws, contrary to contract law standards – met with EADS representatives at a stage of the award process, for then, in all cases, he committed a violation of the standards. And there he has a political problem! We also know from the past that in this case most of the violations have always been found. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hornek and Mr Murauer.]] Second example: If Mr Platter here presents us with two opinions, from which he cites only those parts that fit him in his argument, but does not quote those parts which do not correspond to his argumentation, then he does not have a criminal problem, but a political problem. – And this, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to clarify! If you refuse a committee of inquiry by the coalition parties, you will have to be pleased that we are here, but also outside the House, to interpret the facts that are open to us, if You want to do so – and you have to come to the conclusion that you have something to hide. [[Call to the ÖVP:Yes, “Congregate! ”]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9046	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Kapeller. Speech time: 4 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9065	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Military expenditure in Austria is less than 0.78 percent of GDP with €1.7 billion. This is relatively small in European comparison, which is 2%. It can be seen from this that tax money is handled in the Federal Minister Platter's place of business and efficiency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This army budget is above all an expression of the fact that this government, that ÖVP and FPÖ are part of the Austrian Federal Army and its achievements. – And that is the difference to you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties! Some things in the SPÖ I don't understand at all: If you're ruling, you're against it if you don't rule! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In particular, two tasks mark the activity of our army: on the one hand, written down in constitutional terms, national defence and on the other hand, assistance in border and disaster protection. So the army is helping where others can't. These achievements are – politically and medially – naturally undisputed. In addition to the border army, some 250 000 soldiers, especially at the EU's external border, and especially in Burgenland, have taken up over 67,000 illegal border workers since 1990. This is how our federal army serves internal security! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At elementary events, where executives, fire brigades and rescue can no longer help, as they meet the limits of their possibilities, our army, for example in natural disasters such as last year's flood, avalanches, earthquakes and other major events and exceptional cases, both nationally and internationally. And for this to be done, the Austrian federal army is due to the thanks of this house. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] The 0.78 percent of GDP is also useful for these uses. But so “next to” our army has a constitutional task, namely the state defense. This is actually the first task, the core task of our army. However, there are political opinions, including opinions from the SPÖ. Nevertheless, I say: One is not possible without the other, even impossible to think. Therefore, certain equipment and equipment must also be purchased for the purpose of national defence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This budget takes account of the overall structure of our army, both in terms of national and international tasks. The acquisition of transport capacities, ABC equipment, combat suits or the renovation of barracks shows this width of medium use. Best equipment for best work – and that is embedded in a economical budget! I congratulate our Minister of Defence on this!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9150	The next speaker is Mr Schöls. 4 minutes speaking time is desired. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9179	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition groups – I would like to speak to you better with “suspector fractions”! Mr. General! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Just as a red-green thread of black paint passes through all areas of this budget discussion, it would be quite surprising if that were not the case with this budget chapter. At the beginning of the discussion on this budget chapter, the former spokesperson of a former state-bearing party, who even had government responsibility in this Republic in the last millennium, goes out and moderated here – the disarmamentists may not be evil for me now! – in the nature of an arrogant who is looking forward to the invitation to the next Veteran meeting, about defence policy principles. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[New cheerfulness at the ÖVP.]] Speakers of the opposition parties come out here and believe the protocol says that they are grateful to the soldiers for thanking the officers. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! I also thank the soldiers, groundmen, officers and officers for their work at home and abroad, but: Thank you very much! Colleague Schasching from SPÖ – unfortunately, she is not in the hall now – has thanked herself on the one hand for the use of the Austrian Federal Army in the natural disaster last August, when the soldiers of all degrees of service were in operation, which she distinguished from some of the officials in our Republic, because they have very probably interrupted their vacation in order to get used to this flood disaster, but at the same time, Mr Schasching claims that the Austrian Federal Army does not have the necessary pioneer equipment. – Where is my colleague Schasching? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I invite colleague Schasching to drive to Melk to the pioneers to look at the 2000 pioneer bridge! I invite them to contact the military commander of Lower Austria, which – even private – he has used to help! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Parnigoni, whom I very much appreciate, left here and thanked the Austrian army's soldiers, but at the same time cleaned himself off all responsibility. And I have to ask colleagues Parnigoni: Who, dear Rudi – he is not here at the moment, but perhaps he can hear me – has financed the financing of the tank workshop at the “Neuner” in Horn?! – Socialist Minister of Finance Edlinger did not make these financial resources available!, but under Minister of Defense Herbert Scheibner and Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel we have received the funding for the tank workshop at the „Neuner“! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At the last military meeting, we asked the gunman ULAN, and Rudi Parnigoni said he would see that more ULAN is coming to Weitra and Horn. – However, Mr Parnigoni then voted against the budget, against ensuring the financing of the ULAN gun! The Black Hawk pilots didn't deserve this either – and I invite Rudi Parnigoni to look at them so that he doesn't make this high-tech weapon from the speaker's desk anymore! The commander of the air forces will certainly give him the opportunity to look at these devices in Langenlebarn. The Black Hawk are much more modern than those in the United States. This is not what our soldiers in service at home and abroad do not need! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would therefore like to thank Mr Platter and all those responsible for making the necessary funds available. As important as it is that the national defense is also in use at the Olympic Games, but it is not limited to the national defense! I would suggest to colleagues from the "Credential Group" that we be clear about the following – because Mr Klubobmann Cap is now coming in here: On the one hand, your group is speaking from the speaker's desk of "warplanes", from "warplanes", and on the other hand, for example, Mr Puswald makes it so that he is making himself here and is doing a photographic advertising in connection with these devices! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Grasser says that!]] – In your opinion, either we buy “photo-planes” or “flight aircraft!” Mr. Gaál, I invite you as an arrogant: Do another training course with your group, put it on the line, and tell us what really is and what it is about in the defence of the country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again: Since so many false things have been said so often, I don't want to repeat the right thing either: We are in a situation where we need even more resources to defend the state – this is beyond discussion. But it is to this Minister of Defence to thank that a corresponding increase of €70 million has been achieved. It is due to this Minister of Defence that new combat suits and important and necessary equipment are acquired. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are committed to comprehensive national defence! You refuse military national defence; as Figurea shows, you do not have much idea of the economic defence of the country. At least make a small part of spiritual defense! "Credential Group", resign! Mr. Federal Minister, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9276	As the last speaker in the discussion on the chapter on military affairs, Mr Amon spoke and spoke for 4 minutes – at least he did so as a member of Parliament, but he congratulated us with 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9305	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that I do not have to bring in the time that my colleague, Mr Schöls, has overlaid, because I would find it difficult to do so in view of the fullness of the things that have been discussed during the debate. First of all, I would like to join those who congratulate you, Mr Federal Minister, on the outcome you have negotiated with the Minister for Finance. I believe that this is quite a budget one can present, especially at a time when it is anything but easy to have sufficient budget resources for important things. You managed to get at least € 70 million more for the Austrian federal army and for the post-purchasing of urgently needed equipment. They are also concerned about improvements in man equipment and women's equipment, and I think that is something very positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In fact, I am a friend of differentiated discussions, but it will be funny if a very differentiated discussion takes place within the SPÖ Group. I have followed the whole debate on this budget chapter, and it was quite remarkable – and I would also like to acknowledge this – that, for example, Mr Hagenhofer, but also other Members from the SPÖ Group, you, Mr Bundes- Minister, have also paid tribute to this budget and have recognised the spending of important measures in the area of post-purchasing budget resources. It is all the more unfortunate, however, if there are others who, contrary to those I have now mentioned, have in part required a more budget. I am excited whether it will be possible for the SPÖ, if we decide on the budget, to make an amendment to the extension of the budget for the defence of the state, because it has been phased out that you would like to have a significantly higher budget for the defence of the state. We will wait for the vote and see if you have actually made a request on this matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, others who are almost once again slid into the field of trying to criminalise in connection with the post-attributing of airspace surveillance aircraft are disappointing. The SPÖ should already think that it is now condemned in several procedures. It has already been said at the beginning of the debate that you have 30 000 € to pay punishment to FPÖ representatives and government members because you have made unfair claims that the courts have apparently not been able to understand. Therefore, you are now trying to continue this game on a parliamentary level – some of them at least. I really want to ask you to put an end to this game! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is no need for anyone in this House to be subjected to criminal acts as you do. Now to the Greens, who, if you can believe colleagues Pilz, have already issued several advertisements to the Public Prosecutor's Office. All these ads at the prosecutor's office were laid down after a few days, because they proved themselves to be completely untruthless and untrue. – That is also said here, also for the protocol, because I simply consider it unnecessary to conduct policies in this way. Mr Oellinger has found that the threat picture has changed. - No doubt that's right. The threat picture has changed significantly. But they do not answer the changed threat picture! Your answer to the changed threat picture we have is not, and no answer, ladies and gentlemen, is undoubtedly an answer that cannot be in the interests of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9371	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9390	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Minister Platter spoke of an objective discussion on the chapter of the National Defence. One would have to correct this almost actually, Mr Minister, according to the remarks of my colleague, Mr Schöl. But, of course, you have spoken out of experience to line up – in this regard you have been à jour over the last few days, because you know how it is to bring someone on the line and to fall over. [[Abg. Schöls: The truth said!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us take this debate of Revue: There has been little new debate on the defence debates of recent years. We have the same promises, we have the same announcements of the governmental parties, we have the same accusations, the They stand up to the SPÖ, and injustice is not more correct by constant and years of claim. Mr Murauer, you have a Freud's promise, but perhaps it's typical. I have written it literally: Risk between WAPA and NATO has not decreased. [[Abg. Murauer: What?]] – You said that, but not that, I'm clear. [[Abg. Murauer: Say it again!]] But you live in the past! You said: The risk between the Warsaw Pact and NATO has not decreased. – You can read this in the Stenographical Protocol! But you live mainly in the past with your argumentation. [[Abg. Murauer: I can't imagine saying that!]] In other words, you do not know what has changed in Europe. Let us look at your policy line: for the accession to the WEU, which is no longer available today, for the neutrality which you have called into question. [[Abg. Murauer: You can believe that I certainly didn't say that!]] I recall Mr President's taboo, and I recall Mr Bundeskanzler and his comparison with the Lipizzans and Mozart balls. – The same “Lipizzaner” and “Mozartkugeln” must be the reason for the purchase of the Eurofighters today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The arguments of the 1980s were correct at that time – today they are obsolete. Mr Wittauer, who is no longer in the hall, meant that at that time we would have been for the catch-hunting after-sale. - Right! Because of the situation at that time, it was perfectly right! Although he only suggested an argument, he said: At that time, 1986/87, it was about replacing SAAB aircraft. – This argument was wrong, the government parties were misrepresented, because SAAB is still flying today. Mr Scheibner said only last year: They certainly fly for the next 15 years, because there are no problems with the spare parts, they are fully ready to use. I would like to thank the SAAB pilots. They do excellent work, 50 percent of the surveillance flights are carried out with SAAB, which should have been eliminated in 1986 but still fly. Now they're in 2010. We hear the same thing very often, Minister: Fighting suits, cars, trucks – all this I have heard from Scheibner. – It never happened, the money was missing. Haven't mentioned any more You're the troops radio, you haven't mentioned any more necessary pioneer equipment. If we – the Republic may be spared – once again catch such a flood, it will be very scarce with the pioneer equipment. [[Federal Minister Platter: Is scheduled!]] Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude: It will be very tight with your budget, with chapter 1/40108. Need € 233 million You will be able to fly in Austria in 2005 for infrastructure costs. You do not have these funds in the 2003 budget, you do not have them in the 2004 budget. That is why the justified fear, ladies and gentlemen, is that there will be further predispositions that the agricultural forces will have to spare it again. For the agricultural forces, ladies and gentlemen, today is Friday, the 13th, in the truest sense of the word! I would ask you, Mr General, to thank the Austrian Federal Army's soldiers for their achievements. [[towards gallery]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9510	Mr Kummerer! Not all my comparisons are church: I didn't talk about tabernacle, but about the treasure chamber. No one is reporting on this. Economy and work Chapter 63: Economy and work
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9540	We now proceed to the negotiation of Chapter 63, Economy and Labour. I call Mr Moser. Red-time wish: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9561	Mr President. Minister! High house! If you look at the national economic defence and perhaps the Austrian sales policy, I will return this question of competence to one of my previous speakers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: You mean Bank Austria?]] The Federal Chancellor spoke yesterday in his speech on the importance of psychology in the economy. I fully agree with him, because it is really important to acknowledge psychology in the economy accordingly. Even more important, however, are stable expectations, which is also an important point, because a calculable economic policy is a prerequisite for important business decisions. It does not make sense to feel sick or to pray in good health. It is far more important to make an objective assessment and then to see what the situation is, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, it does not look so rosy in Austria at the moment. Considering the recent reports of the World Competitiveness Yearbook from the Lausanne institution, one has to say that Austria has fallen back to tenth place in the location ranking from the eighth place. This is, of course, interpretable, we know, but it's a clue whether you're getting better or worse. We have become worse in this respect. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Which statistics is that?]] - From the Lausanne IMD. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: We've gotten better!]] According to World Competitiveness Yearbook 2003, Austria has fallen back to tenth place from eighth place. I can give it to you, Mr stupid, that is to be read. - Please. [[The speaker handed over Abg. Dr. Stummfully a paper.]] Of course, it is also critical to look at developments in the labour market. We heard several comparisons yesterday, and it is clear that the unemployment rate is approaching the European average. But I do not want to look more closely at this, but for me it is an important indicator of how the number of posts has developed. How many people in demand come to an open position? – In this respect, the situation doubled from 2000 to 2002. When five more people came to an open position in 2000, it is now ten people. There is therefore a dramatic deterioration to be observed. The Austrian development is critical of Wifo experts, leading Karl Aiginger, whom you know from his past as an ÖVP economic consultant, who in a very extensive study comes to the conclusion that Austria has a lot of deficits and is now fighting against the decline. This is also a fact that you have to deal with. Another indicator I would like to cite here to describe the situation in order to give an empirical example is the settlement policy. The Austrian Business Agency, which is responsible for this and continues to be taught in this budget with a constant rate, has halved its settlement success since 2000. It has only been able to bring more than half of the settlements to Austria from abroad. If you look at regional statistics, you have to say that there are federal states like the Burgenland, which despite Objective 1 territory did not create any settlement. In Styria, Mr. Federal Minister, from which we both come, there has been only one settlement in the last two years. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday we talked a lot about disbursements and expenditure on advisory services. Those who have been in the economy will know that many such areas may be expected. But we also know that many such examples do not expect and what consultants are able to do. Here I would like to mention the example of Austria Wirtschaftsservice GmbH. In this Austria Wirtschaftsservice GmbH, all funding institutions are summarized, which at first glance is a very reasonable approach, because everyone who wants to take advantage of funding can be used very well, but if one looks at the political credo of the current Federal Government, that one says that the state is a bad entrepreneur, then, one must say, this actually falls back on you with this model. Although I agree, in principle, with this view, that this may be so, but it is essential that it depends on living corporate governance, that is, what the owners set and what is achieved in implementation. If I have to read in the “Economic Sheet” regarding AWS that the difficulties in AWS do not end, or read in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” that this adventure is very expensive to face, then I also have to come back to the personnel decision. There someone was pre-arranged, implemented as managing director and released without notice after six months. If this is an example of the state's failure, then I have to give you the right, that is, of course, missing corporate governance. Mr Minister, I would ask you to fix this very quickly so that there can be opportunities for funding in Austria so that the industry, the economy, can take a boost again. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Internationalisation of the economy is also an important and undoubtedly essential factor for prosperity, especially for small and medium-sized countries. That was discussed in a massive way yesterday. The donation of an export offensive of 25 million, doubled by the Chamber of Commerce, I think is a very good approach. However, we also know that we have a positive trade balance for the first time – which was discussed too – for the first time. I don't think so. It's right that she's positive, but I see the reasons for it in part elsewhere. This is due to a very weak domestic demand, which leads to a reduction in export imports of rising expenditure, so that there is actually a surplus. Unfortunately, this has already normalized again in the first quarter of 2003 – normalized for Austrian conditions. What I don't understand about internationalization is that there is the implementation of a strategic staff station with three people in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I don't know exactly what he's responsible for. There are former Ambassadors and Industrial Secretary-General Dr Ceska, who has certainly acquired many merits in the past and is a top man, but the question is: [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: A top man!]] What is his task in this situation? We have the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, we have the control bank, we have a well-functioning section management, and we have the East-West Fund. Political travel and intervention are classical tasks of the Federal Minister, so I wonder: What tasks do these have to do, Mr. Minister? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Basel II as a key factor for the future of lending is tangible. According to the latest Credit Lending Survey, which assesses how the loans are granted, it should be noted that the procurement directives have attracted massively and that the dramatic impact on small and medium-sized enterprises. I would also like to ask you, Mr Minister: What are you doing to prevent a possible shake-out process? A similar statement can be made for tourism. In a press conference last week, Egon Smeral noted that a difficult summer is due to events abroad in the tourism sector in Austria. We know that the tourism industry is very heavily driven by small and medium-sized enterprises and that they have very poor financial resources. Mr Minister, my question: What to do As an emergency measure to prevent a possible shake-out here? Ladies and gentlemen! We from SPÖ are of course also in favour of an active economic policy. This is an essential prerequisite for economic growth, and we will also have the distribution and financing facilities for the financing of our welfare state. But I am watching in this government that a very client-oriented and very passive economic policy is actually being pursued. I note that with this form of economic policy we will not return to the top European field. These two budgets also do not show such offensive approaches. Therefore, I really ask you to turn away from your regressive policy and try to get the Austrian economy back to the top. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9649	The next speaker is Mr Mitterlehner, who will speak to us for 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9667	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the comments made by Mr von der SPÖ, who quoted here a statistics on the competitiveness of Austria. However, these statistics are not in this form. From my point of view, we have no problem with our competitiveness. You just need to look at our export development. Our problem is that we are involved in international activities with an export link of 35 percent. The problem is that the economy has not actually increased since 2000. Yesterday, the Vice-President of the European Central Bank was Papademos in Vienna. What he said here and what one has heard before is not particularly encouraging: The growth forecasts for the euro area for this year are not as expected at 1.1 to 2.1 percent, but at a maximum of 0.4 to 1.0 percent. Also next year's forecasts are little encouraging, instead of 2.9 percent, as hoped, we may have only 2.1 percent growth. In addition, we used to be very closely linked to America with our economic development. There is now obviously a trend change. For America, growth is expected to be 3.5 percent next year, and that is why we have certain difficulties. In view of these difficulties, of course, the question must be asked: What are Austrian economic policies, including budgetary measures in the field of economic and labour? Are they prepared to act in an invigorating way, but also to make the right choices in structural policy? I believe, not only in my opinion, but also in the statements of the economic researchers, that we are currently facing a demand problem, a demand problem, what is happening to businesses, to households, but also to the state. In this context, we must already see that the Maastricht criteria are also to be questioned when the EU sees that it has been difficult for three years to deal with the economic situation, and that it is always a straw to the reduction in interest rates. In order for such economic events to come true, we will also need to discuss industrial policy guidelines – and we are already discussing them. Just putting everything on the service side could be a false expectation. If we see these problems, then the most important task, Mr Moser, is to create confidence in all three areas in view of the lack of demand. The state is facing a real challenge. On the one hand, it has to make a budget consolidation, because – see discussion over the past few days – public budgets are overwhelmed by health, pensions and administration benefits, on the other hand, the tax and tax ratio has to be reduced in order to remain competitive. At the third level, we should invest accordingly in education, research and development and infrastructure so that we can maintain or even expand competitiveness. And here I see a fundamental problem with you at SPÖ. While Germany, as the so-called consumer taxes come along, is relying on savings in the area of pensions, labour market, personnel, as well as in the field of defence – that is, in Germany it is saved! – we rely on increased efficiency, because the services will even remain the same or be expanded. But what I saw as a line with you yesterday is somehow questionable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Why? – On the one hand, see yesterday, you have demands such as care, disability, pensions, new benefits. That's what you're demanding, so performance improvements. - All right. On the other hand, as far as efficiency is concerned, you do not make any proposals at all, but you say: No, we don't need that now, you have to move it. And you come to the third, and complain that we now need a tax reform to strengthen income, especially small incomes, the government needs to do something. Then Professor Kramer tells you: Because you have been so unsure about the pension reform, the savings ratio is increasing. – That is to say, your political calculation will not go up, but the economic calculation you put on it is extremely problematic for our location. You risk a demand weakness because you are problematic and emotionalizing in this form. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is the biggest...!]] That's the wrong way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The other question is whether we are going the right way now, involved in international efforts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hans Moser.]] There are the relevant EU guidelines on pensions, the labour market, research and development and innovation. A particular problem is the area of older workers. As a result, the government – which is going hand in hand with the pension reform – is taking the right measures, because there is a considerable reduction in additional pay for older workers, because incentives are set in order to implement them accordingly. Mr Lacner, in this context: I said in November that the abolition of early pensions would contradict the protection of trust. That was right at the time, because it was planned: 2004 to 2009. This period has now been extended, it can be sufficiently prepared, the times and the measures have now changed. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Who can prepare for the early board if he's sick?]] Look, there's also a second measure. First: Sickness is something else anyway. Secondly, In addition to a number of other measures, such as the extension of the age-part-time allowance, the old-age allowance was also created. There is sufficient provision in an area which the EU considers to be very important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: The hardy compensation fund with 1 €!]] Mr President, you will never want to do anything but do nothing and wait for it is a way that is certainly going wrong. You have to do something and take the right action. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That you have to do something – but what, is the question!]] We also put these measures in the field of research and development, in a very important area, because experts say there is the best multiplier, there is €600 million extra available, but there are also structural measures such as a national foundation in preparation, at least in discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Ask Professor Van der Bellen what he thinks about it! Taught Words!]] I think that's the right way. Mr Moser said – and here we meet – that it is important to strengthen the internationalisation offensive now. This is precisely because we have already had the best successes in the past and in future we are addressing the programme of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Chamber of Commerce with 25 million precisely those areas that have not yet been covered; for example, the small and medium-sized enterprises were not very much involved in the export. However, we have not served remote markets or service areas either. That means that we have structurally exactly the right measures to do what you said: To develop and improve competitiveness accordingly. We're on the way there structurally well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to address EU funding in this context, because we will have a problem if we do not improve enough. The EU accession countries will become members of the European Union. ==References====External links== It is currently apportioning funding, not only for economic investment but also for infrastructure investment. We will have to do something for our border area, otherwise we will have financial disadvantages. There are also appropriate preparations. This is a task for the future, and I believe we are on the right track. I also see the change in shop opening times as an offensive measure. Now many say we don't need to. But if, in the neighbouring candidate countries, the business remains open until 10 am and on Sunday, our national leaders will also see that it was the right measures that we have optionally prepared here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would no longer like to stress you, my colleagues will present you with a few other examples. For the Austrian site, it is really important, in my opinion, that we do not put in place all the desirable measures, which are correct, namely structurally correct, and sustainable, in order to achieve an international economic recovery with our possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9801	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9819	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Mitterlehner has just referred to the Lisbon Strategy with the Guidelines. I think that's logical, Austria can't operate in times like this insulated economic policy. But I'd say, Let us look at the Lisbon strategy as a whole, what is happening in it! The Lisbon Strategy states that the EU is to become the most competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based economic area and describes the steps to be taken: Economic growth, more and more secure jobs and – you hear and marvel! – social cohesion. The interesting thing is that you always take out certain areas. Nevertheless, I do not want to talk about social cohesion today, because I believe it has become clear in the last few days that you are not sufficiently aware of the government's responsibilities. These fears are justified. I'll just leave this aside. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: This is more true of the opposition!]] I am now focusing on economic growth, for which you are said to be always standing. Let's see what you're actually doing! They have just said again that Austria cannot do much in this global and EU context. Nevertheless, I believe – and I said that yesterday, and it is undisputed – that there are certain scopes in which individual governments and nations can stimulate their economic growth. And this is true, I think, especially in connection with the possibilities of Eastern trade, which is strengthened by us, where there is a great potential and where there are very likely possibilities to go to Austria. It is also no coincidence that economic growth data in each EU country are quite different, that poorer or better economic growth does not necessarily have something to do with social expenditure, but depends on the mix of these things. I would like to mention three areas in his budget speech, given the fact that Finance Minister Grasser has mentioned several areas that could help boost economic growth in Austria. Firstly, more and more secure jobs, second: Research and development, third: infrastructural investment. What about the jobs? – It has already been discussed and has also been a debate over the last few days, calling for Austria to be so excellent in terms of jobs that we have such a low unemployment rate and a rising employment rate. How does that look in detail? – In detail, it seems that the increase in unemployment rates is above average, i.e. that Austria is not so good in terms of unemployment on the one hand and – and this also affects pensions, with all taxes and taxes – that on the other hand, the increase in the employment rate you are always talking about is not a real increase in the employment rate if you convert it into full-time equivalents. It is true that there is an increasing number of part-time jobs and precarious employment relationships, that is, if you convert this into full-time equivalents, you will not increase the employment rate. Apart from the fact that it is of course an individual problem if people have no or too little work or a job from which they cannot live, this is also an absolutely negative effect on economic policy and problems. The dequalification of people, tax outages, increased claims on insurance benefits and reduced purchasing power. You from the government are currently contributing a lot to reducing purchasing power, with your saving of fear in the government, which also causes the population to lose fear. A third of the population is currently saving more because it feels uncertain, another third is saving in that it is a private pension provision because of fear that its future pension will not be sufficient. This reduces purchasing power, instead of increasing it, and this also means that you can't boost economic growth in Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: You did that!]] – You have done this with your actions! Do not say that the bearer of the message is evil. They have set out the measures, in view of which the Austrians can calculate very precisely what is relevant to them. [[Abg. Head: You've delivered the wrong news! You have proved to have delivered false messages!]] In addition, you have launched measures such as that under 25-year-olds and over 50-year-olds should take training if they are unemployed for more than three months. You promised to do so, too, in the budget speech of the Minister for Finance. However, if one asks what these measures are financed by, it turns out that there is no money. There is no additional money – not for the measures themselves... – Yes, retransmissions, but no additional money. [[Abg. Silhavy: Retranslations!]] This is the interplay of individual groups, but there is no additional money for labour market policy. You keep making promises that you can't ultimately deliver. Second area: Research and development. This was an area which Mr Mitterlehner referred to earlier. It was so great that we had to invest there. What exactly does it look like? – It can be found that the government has undertaken a research rate of 2.5 percent until the end of the legislative period. The fact is that it is already in the first year, namely this year, that it will not achieve the desired and self-esteemed rate of increase. [[Abg. Grossruck: You know what you're talking about?]] The increase is only 0.1 percent this year, and the ratio has increased from 1.95 to 1.96 percent instead of 2.01 percent, as Eurostat has forecast. The interesting thing is – to say something good to the companies, so to speak, because you always think that we greens are so evil there: Companies increase their research funding, i.e. they contribute to research funding to a very large part, while federal funds are not sufficient. There are about € 110 million missing for this year alone. What is planned for next year, i.e. € 88 million, can never go to the level you have sought. You will need to invest €340 million next year to get to the research rate you have undertaken. Before the budget is decided, it is clear that what you promised cannot be kept. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] In addition, in the field of research, the funding gap also threatens the demigration of various enterprises. ==References====External links== In April, both Philips and AT&S and the chip manufacturer Infineon complain that this funding gap exists. These companies at least think about and speak out loudly that, if research funding is not secured, migration is quite possible. This is your kind of economic policy and research and technology promotion. [[Abg. Großruck: And that's why the Germans think they're coming to us?! The German companies are coming to Austria! Massly!]] You always say – and I think this is right – that headquarters should stay in Austria, that is your policy. But you are selling these companies with your lack of support for the research and technology initiative. Why don't you ask the people themselves? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Such a...!]] Perhaps another word about small businesses, because it was a subject yesterday too. I believe that the tax advantage of the profits that have not been recovered is the right thing to do. I think that the cover at a certain level of profits is correct; They did not originally provide for them, but the modified template, I think, fits. However, there will still be a lot to consider for the further promotion of the small freelancers, because they have nothing of this form because they do not balance. There is a very broad group of entrepreneurs who will still need support. Unlike the areas in which you do not invest, namely in the fields of research, technology and the labour market, you invest very heavily in the area of the street. There you can only say: There's a lot going in there! You will not be particularly surprised that we think this type of investment is less favourable. But it is not so much that we reject many of these major projects that you are promoting, but above all that you do not mention or point out the costs of follow-up, as in other areas, such as, for example, those of the interceptors, in the budget at all. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That this kind of brilliant explosion of road construction leads to explosive follow-up costs, don't talk about it. Minister Gorbach admitted in a response to a request that in about ten years the share of the assets that will flow into the conservation will be more than twice as high. You, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, are already planning the future car toll with this explosive scale in road construction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Control: Where's the budget, please? There's nothing in there!]] You'll find a lot of it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: ASFINAG!]] Precisely, ASFINAG! But it's hard to find out where it comes from, that's true. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller:... road pricing!]] - Okay. What we need in Austria is not that the government creates an atmosphere in which people feel in your uncertainty that they need to save more, in which people's purchasing lust is still reduced and purchasing power is further weakened, but we need concrete measures to support small businesses and meaningful investments in research and development as well as in future jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10015	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10034	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The last legislative period has brought improvements to the economy in a wide range of areas. Some say that was a drop on the hot stone, others were glad that after many years of stress, positive changes were made. What I believe is common, that is the intention to take further steps to improve competitiveness, to improve the situation of Austrian businesses. I would just like to mention a few points which have made a valuable contribution to a positive change in the last legislative period. An example of this is the “handling off. ” It was not recognized by anyone as a success, but sometimes as a one-sided preference. I can tell you, as one of the economics, that I clearly prefer the predictability of this "rehandling" to the old printing system, as it leads to a reduction in the difficulties in the transfer of operations and offers additional benefits. For example, it is an advantage for workers to be able to take their handling with them in the backpack, so to speak. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, two economic packages have been adopted in this House, as I believe, in a very difficult economic time. It was true that these measures were taken when they were particularly important for the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. A reduction in the cost of energy has led to an advantage, in particular, of energy-intensive enterprises, in the gas and electricity sector. However, as we all know, the impact of world economic development, the economic developments with those countries with which we maintain economic relations, including those with which we want to establish economic relations, are important to make further reflections on how we can improve competitiveness for our Austrian businesses and thus improve the job situation and secure jobs. The fact that the development of our main trading partner, the Federal Republic of Germany, does not have a positive impact on Austria, for example, has only been noted on the margins. It is therefore a requirement to take further measures to improve the situation and to reduce existing burdens. To that end, I think it is an essential step, the injustice that has been discussed for many years, namely the 13. VAT advance payment, abolition. We have succeeded in implementing this project. That is, the 13th. This means that VAT prepayment is a thing of the past. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A halvation of the tax rate for profits not collected will certainly have a positive effect. In this context, I address the psyche and also the attitude of entrepreneurs, the prospects that are being opened to them. I think this is an essential and important signal. I also see it as an essential and important signal that the lowest and smallest incomes are deducted or tax-free up to a gross annual income of €14 500. I also assume that this will be the means that will directly benefit the economy and improve the purchasing power situation in Austria in the area of lower incomes. Of course, I have a strong expectation of the measure announced for 2005, namely the major overall tax reform, which will bring about further relief, at least to a value of €2.5 billion. The objective is also to reduce the tax and tax rate in general in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that the economy is not just the university entrepreneurs, but all the employed, self-employed, as well as university employees, and only through the interaction between them can we assume that we will be economically successful. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria has a corporate structure characterised by small and medium-sized enterprises. On average, the Austrian company has eight to nine employees. Austria has many small businesses, and so it is not surprising that over 90 percent of the unemployed find their jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises. In any case, this is an opportunity for me to think about it, to pay special attention to the small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. Mr. Minister! I should also like to point out, or especially in connection with the opening of the shop, that we liberals will be very careful to pay attention, in the course of the intended liberalisation, to ensuring that distortions of competition are maintained at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Silhavy: How do you want to do this?]] – I’m going to address it, but I can tell you right now: Unlike previous practices at the time of the red-black coalition, it is common for these coalition partners to present their positions in order to find a common position. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The exploding construction of large trade giants on the green meadow should not distort competition in favour of these trade giants, especially since it is assumed that small and medium-sized enterprises provide most of the jobs in Austria. I would therefore ask you, Mr Bartenstein, to consider whether, in order to meet international demands, it would not be useful to make a taxable list of those international airports and international railway stations, which make sense to offer passengers the possibility of shopping on Sunday. However, I would not consider it particularly beneficial if this option were given at any micro-station station. This might then look like the commercial giant would then build the station in the form of a shopping center, and this would of course also open the store opening on Sunday door and gate. On the other hand, we liberals are very determined to express this more strongly in our discussions. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Considering the development of shopping areas in Austria – we have around 130 shopping centres in Austria with a total area of 1.7 million square meters, and another hundred are in planning – it seems quite useful to take the necessary measures in terms of job security through appropriate spatial planning. I see it as the task of federal policy to define federal uniform objectives here, and I see it as a need to maintain otherwise a distortion of competition by means of fiscal steering measures in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises. Federal Minister! The Chamber of Commerce has approached this view or has published a brochure which shows how many local centres, such as those of Horn in Lower Austria, are destroyed by a collection of large commercial giants on the green meadow, whose infrastructure is ultimately paid by all of us, by every single taxpayer. I think that, even if it is already very late, it is necessary to do so in order to stop this development and the devastation of the city centres. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Measures would be even better!]] Finally, I would like to say that I welcome those points set out in the Government Agreement, which will facilitate the economic situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, and that, of course, I will also work to ensure that they are implemented quickly. I am happy that after many years of stress, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, it will be a relief for these, and the way we are going is certainly the right one.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10128	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Controller on word. I would ask for a precise comparison of the facts to be corrected and the facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10149	High house! In the budget debate, Mrs Michaela Sburny has previously spoken of an explosion-like increase in expenditure on road construction, including follow-up costs. [[Abg. Sburny: Follow-up costs!]] It is true, however, that in 2002, total expenditure on road construction in the budget was still EUR 128 million, including disaster funds, road research and so on, and that only more than € 18 million will be spent in the following two years, i.e. next year and next.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10200	The next item is Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10218	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus on the impact of your policy on youth. We have had a lot of opportunity in recent days to discuss how disastrous your “pension reduction program” will affect young people. The 35-year-olds will be affected by massive cuts in the future, and there will be increasing poverty in old age. But you, above all you, Federal Minister Bartenstein, are robbing the youth of their future opportunities. I would like to briefly illustrate this in the example of the development of youth unemployment. Due to your labour market policy, we have a dramatic increase in youth unemployment in Austria. In the period in which you draw responsibility, from May 2000 to now, youth unemployment has increased by 44.4 percent. This is an unprecedented youth unemployment, considering which every responsible politician should immediately ring the alarm bells. But you're not doing anything! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know that people are behind the numbers, and so that you can imagine how many young people don't get a chance from you because there is no training place or teaching place, I may call you a few numbers: There are about 56 000 unemployed young people, of whom more than 21,000 are in AMS training. Do you know how many these are? With this you could easily fill the Vienna Ernst-Happel-Stadion – exclusively with young people who find no work. You're responsible for this, Minister of State! You have promised these thousands of young people a lot; this is in line with your policy and the policy of this federal government. I would remind you that you, Federal Minister Bartenstein, explained at a Question Time in the Federal Council in June 2002 – I quote – “that every youth who does not receive a apprenticeship can get at least one course....” Nothing of that is true! In two weeks schooling will be complete, and other young people will be looking for a job. Since this announcement, nothing has happened in this direction, the young people just get to feel their missing policy bitterly. I would like to make the following point because the Building Committee Your place of residence is concerned and because above all the housing law belongs to your area of responsibility. I think it is problematic that the idea of increasing the rents in the law of non-profit. One wants to increase rent only to create a “Lex BUWOG” to drive the sales price to the state-owned housing companies by promising real estate investors that they will have a higher return and that will give you a higher price. This price must be paid by the tenants. I would like an opinion from you on whether, in fact, you intend to increase the rents massively in addition to all your burden policies. That would really be a political scandal! Federal Minister Bartenstein, obviously you are dealing with quite different things, namely boot discounts. Even shoe advertising is inspired by you. Today you can read it in the newspapers, a shoe company advertises with the advertising slogan “Minister’s Discount for All”. [[Continued calls and ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] That's not funny! Do you know what the problem is? – Mr Minister, you have abused your position to get a discount for shoes. There is a party colleague from you in Germany, namely Kurt Biedenkopf, who resigned for a similar affair. You're making a run-down policy so you haven't had the mumm to make a statement here so far.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10294	Next, Mr Magistrate. Mr Tancsits. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10313	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A brief answer to Mrs Bures: The story of the increasing rents in the housing community area has been telling us since 2000. Your predictions have not been made, on the contrary: After the redundancies of the federal companies from the community, the large companies BUWOG and WAG carried out a comprehensive reduction in rents. - That's just for orientation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My real topic is the labour market, which is inseparably linked to the economy and which has to be a measure of a functioning economy. We have had a relatively positive development of the labour market in Austria in the last decades – which was also mentioned in yesterday’s debate – so that in the years 2000 and 2001, we could not only achieve employment limits – values that we still hold – but also almost full employment with 3 percent unemployment after EUROSTAT. Of course, it is also true that Austria is feeling international economic development, increased by the development of the 11th century. September. Previous speakers have also complained that our economy feels the decline of our main trading partner Germany accordingly. Although we are still in third place in international comparison, in the EU comparison, as far as unemployment is concerned, we cannot be satisfied with this value, based on the high labour market standard that we have set ourselves. We will therefore do everything we can to reduce unemployment with the recovery of the economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What is going to be done for this, and what is foreseen in this budget? First: active labour market policy. Of the total resources for the labour market – €4 billion – we have achieved the highest absolute value and maximum share for ten years with €783 million for active labour market policy. Secondly, the package for older workers, and I would like to stress two measures in particular. Firstly, the reduction in the cost of wages, which to date also means relatively unnoticed a net real wage increase for all workers from 56 to 58 years of age by 3 per cent, and also a corresponding relief for the entrepreneurs they employ. – Second, the right to further qualification from 50 onwards. Year of life, and by the way, also for the under-25s. I consider this measure to be a very significant change in my thinking, because this can be used at an age of employees, and should, where it has always been common practice in the companies, consider: Am I sending this employee to a course? And the employee also asked himself: Is that still worth it? – Today we have a legal claim on it! I believe that this is one of the most important measures to improve the labour market for older people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There is a third point that I have to mention, and I would particularly like to remind him of my predecessor Bures, who is also a Member of Vienna. We have a massive problem with the Vienna labour market. It is almost nobody aware that Vienna, with a share of 19 percent of the total population in May 2003, has placed 34.6 percent of the unemployed in Austria. That is shocking, ladies and gentlemen! Even if you reason this situation with the conditions in a large city, it is absolutely inexplicable to explain why there is also the longest term of mediation for the unemployed in Vienna from all the federal states. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Lively contradiction at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Toll!]] Since we also have the most long-term unemployed and the highest youth unemployment in Vienna, it will be necessary not only to implement restructuring measures which have already been taken in other federal states, but also to change the social policy environment. As far as social policy is concerned, a low-paid worker has thought three times to take up a job, because, if you have children, you have to exchange the free kindergarten place with the most expensive kindergarten all over Austria. It will also be necessary to consider whether Vienna's school policy continues to be thinned and strangled, I would like to say that the primary school, which would be the natural supplier for apprentices and future professionals and skilled workers. It will be necessary, in Vienna's national policy, as in all other federal states, to give the labour market policy the appropriate importance to the establishment of businesses, so that we do not have the Klotz on the leg with Vienna in the labour market policy, as is unfortunately the case now.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10389	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of [[Call to the SPÖ: Thank God!]] – Should I set the clock? Does it make sense?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10415	Our folder otherwise protests, Mr President, and I cannot be surprised with him! Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bures has already referred to the subject of Minister's Discount, and I do not wish to continue to address just one request to the Federal Minister. Mr Bartenstein, perhaps you will tell us the amount of your discount, because that would be a possibility, like the “rest” of the Austrians – who now believes, the Minister’s discount is 15 percent because the company “S Boot King” that once offered could benefit from it. I would think that your discount was much higher, and perhaps we are able to also cause the company to expand the 15th discount, we say, 50 percent. Then the other Austrians of your purchase would have something. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ellmauer: Oils are funny! Something new!]] Mr Tancsits has made several claims which cannot be contradicted at all. The labour market is linked to the economy. – Yes, I say, Mr Tancsits, you are right. All in all, this statement is a little too little for me. We should have had the opportunity to discuss the link between the labour market and the pension system in recent days. That was the debate of the last days and weeks, in which you and others were predicted to have the effect that the measures in the area of raising the retirement age will not only have the effect of making older people more unemployed, but also of young people! This is what Mr Tancsits said as a major success in the labour market policy field, namely actions such as the reduction of additional labour costs for older workers. I doubt the effect of these measures. We know this from the experience of reducing the additional wage costs for apprentices. Nothing has put it in the final effect! After a two-year takeover effect, all the effects you had hoped for from the ÖVP – or at the time from the SPÖ – are stuffed. We have also discussed for a long time and widely that it has not been possible to increase the employment of apprentices through the additional cost reduction for apprentices. At that time it was your predecessor, Minister Farnleitner, who, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, rightly pointed out that this effect did not occur and that these measures should therefore be considered. And what do you do if you “rethink” a measure? – They repeat it, in this case not with the apprentices, but with the older ones. But be it! Even if this measure has an effect – not just a take-away effect; it could be that something actually remains hanging – what would this other effect be? And that's where it's going to be exciting. If one cannot really put in place or put in place economic policy, employment policy measures, then the other effect is that the boys remain unemployed and have no chance of entering the system. That is the point in which I refer again to what the economic researchers told you at the time, Mr Federal Minister, what you always interpret contrary to what the economic researchers have actually said, namely: There will be an impact on the increase in the retirement age, namely an increase in unemployment, not only in the elderly, but also in the young. And we already know from the 2000 pension reform that this is even about the same spread between the young and the older. Ladies and gentlemen! Beyond all polemics: I have tried to throw this problem off before. I'm just asking you to take the problem with you, you can look at it. The study “Education at a Glance, to which I referred at the time, states: Austria is one of the leading countries in Europe among those young people who are neither in employment nor in education, namely the unqualified male youths, in order to limit this; what has irritated me because I would rather have accepted it among the female youths. Some Austrian economic researchers also point out that this has been the problem in the past, regardless of who it is, whether male or female youths. That's a huge problem! And this huge problem is reinforced by the fact that we in Austria do not do any field work at all. There's no research. – Mr Klubobmann Molterer, it is indeed. There is no one in Austria to deal with it! Other countries consider this issue and this problem important enough to address this very problem: Who is not in the labour market? Who's not in the education system? These people, these people are there! And I can only tell you: As I have become much more sensitive to this in recent weeks and months, after reading all of this and stressing some of the results of the labour market statistics, I think that we should examine this issue thoroughly. There is already an increase in unemployment among academics and well-trained young people, and as such I would also call AHS-maturants. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at this and then you talk to people – here are some mayors, who certainly get more of it in their communities – then you will notice that these people are becoming visible everywhere! There are young people everywhere, whether apprentices or AHS-maturants, who have been trying for years to find a job, but who don't get it anymore. Sometimes they are provided family, you get this condition, and then they may slip into any precarious jobs or holiday practices or make any stays abroad with which they can somehow bridge the situation for months or half a year – a social year, a voluntary year – which is not a solution. They all know as well as I do that once they have been unemployed for a few years, these young people have no chance of finding a job that corresponds to their qualifications! Ladies and gentlemen! There will be little help – and I am now at the end – if the resources for active labour market policies are used in the future to give young people the feeling in the course of some orientation courses that they will be cared for. That is a far too serious problem! And beyond the debate on retirement and the problems that result, I ask you to actually do something here!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10492	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10510	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, I ask myself: Where have you been in the last half year? – Obviously, you have slept the entire economic package II. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A quantum leap has happened in apprenticeship funding, especially in the economics package II. [[Abg. Oils: Look at the unemployment statistics! Unemployment is rising!]] 1 000 € for every apprentice! 1 000 € – If this is not an additional wage reduction for apprentices, I do not know what that is. That's school payback. [[Abg. Oils: That's pointless stuffed!]] But with regard to the fact that the effects are partly not yet visible and that much has yet to happen, I am entirely with you. Mr Bures! You have, I believe, overlooked, because of the pension debate and also through the blind fear machine and het campaign of the last few weeks also from the SPÖ, that the budget accompanying laws not only included the abolition of the ambulance fee, which you voted against – we will still tell the citizens – but it was also a legal claim to include a training programme for young people – that is, exactly what Mr Bures called for here, namely, a legal claim for young people up to 25 years old. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Oils: The chickens laugh at this statement!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Specialist!]] I see that's your way of making policy: First you're afraid, then you'll get out of here and ask, and then you'll vote against it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Economic policy. Mr. Federal Minister! Austria is a small country, and I believe it can be said from the Austrian point of view that economic policy is primarily local policy for us. And location issues and location developments are increasingly dependent on intact framework conditions. If you look at the framework conditions in relation to Austria and also in relation to what this Federal Government has done and is doing over the past three years, then you can say that the framework conditions have been changed mainly in terms of speed and flexibility, as regards the tax situation, the additional wage situation, in terms of the quality of the employees, but also in terms of quality of life. If we are talking about speed and flexibility, for example, I would like to remind you of the concentrated authorisation procedure which is now possible. I would like to remind you that we have adopted an all-encompassing commercial innovation. I would remind you that there was the greatest draft in electricity and gas liberalisation. And I want to remind you that this has made it possible to access the industry more quickly, combined with less bureaucracy. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: That's where we were!]] - But you don't want to hear about the SPÖ. What have you done in recent years? [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: We were there!]] Much has also happened with regard to the quality of the employees. The quality of our employees is undisputed. Austria scores mainly due to our excellent skilled workers. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Much has also happened in education and training, an argument that always comes from your side. The training and further training of our employees will continue to work intensively for us in the future. I would like to ask the social partners here in a critical way: What have you done in recent years, and what are you doing now to secure young people from skilled workers? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What are you doing?- Oh, my God!]] What to do You're real? – You have been sleeping for decades, and it is now cheap to go here and say: We need more foreign workers! – They are unable to support young people from the social partners in such a way as to give them incentives to gain and train more skilled workers. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. May. Molterer.]] I think it's time to say again: “Handwerk has golden ground.” – That’s not an outdated saying, that’s as current as never before! I therefore appeal to the social partners, including those from the Chamber of Commerce: Please take care You're about the outdated careers! We have outdated careers in many areas, and I know that there is a strengthening in the development of these careers by the social partners, who are far too little mobile in this regard. What is – and once again the social partners have been called upon – with all those collective wages below € 1,000? We still have at least 40 collective wages, which are below 1 000 €. It is also high time for young people to re-acquaint themselves with the work of skilled workers, to do just that, because it cannot become every academic – we also see it developing throughout the education system – and not everyone can have an AHS or BHS Matura. An image correction must be made to ensure that the teaching is re-equivalent. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think there's going to be a lot of trouble. In education policy, many debates will no longer be held about whether the classes in the AHS are overcrowded or not overcrowded. We must ensure that the teaching learns this image correction so that we can train Austrian skilled workers again in the near future. Now a few words on the tax situation as a framework for a location policy. In addition to a reduction in costs, you have failed to do so yesterday when voting. On the other hand, you have voted that older workers in the labour market also become more attractive to entrepreneurs, you have voted against the reduction of pay-side costs for older workers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They say, banally, that is only a few. – There are 10,000 women and 40 000 men who will be affected in the future, older workers who will be quite attractive to the labour market by this measure! I mean, that's the hour's commandment. Last but not least, I would like to say a few words about tourism. The high quality of life in Austria is not only a site factor, but also, of course, in the success balance of Austrian tourism. I am particularly pleased – and I am saying this as a former Secretary of State – that the successful way is to continue, that the Austrian advertising funds are guaranteed at the same level, that the promotion of top tourism has tripled, that the concentration of funding now really can also be eroded in all areas and that further restructurings are possible. The forthcoming tax reform, which has already been addressed x-fold here, will contribute a lot to the fact that the companies too are really happy to continue to see a perspective, especially for young entrepreneurs. In this sense, we are going into an optimistic future with regard to Austria's economic location and economic policy in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10691	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10709	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! – Yes, Mr Walch, it does not hurt if you are careful! [[Abg. Walch: Watch out!]] I would like to begin by quoting Mr Mitterlehner, who, from this pult, has so much appreciated the reforms that were agreed yesterday. In an interview in November 2002, Dr. Mitterlehner was asked, among other things, whether a higher early retirement age would be in question. He said: "We want a real increase in the retirement age by means of the measures addressed. Another addition of the early retirement age does not contribute to the problem-solving phase. We already see a trust protection: Once again after two years, it is not exactly a confidence-building approach.” – Dr. Mitterlehner! It's changing so fast! Perhaps a second point is because today you have been so quelling fear-making because people are saving instead of spending their money on consumption. The interesting approach from you to the question of what the pensioners should contribute to a reform – Dr. Mitterlehner in the O-Ton – was: “I would also say that there is a need to be very careful about this, because it is impossible to make restrictions without a collapse of consumption in some important areas.” The only thing to do with this is to agree. That's why I'm wondering: Why did you vote in favour of the budget accompanying law yesterday? As a result, the pensioners are also thrown off by you. - That's the point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fear-making, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you yourself have operated. They have applied this very principle: What kind of horrors could we offer to the population, then take back a little bit to be able to say: It's not all so cruel, we've gotten everything out, we've gotten it all out! Do you think any people still believe that? Do you think people with an income of less than €1,000 can afford anything if you take 10 percent away from it? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is probably a milkmaid bill, in which one can even understand in the folk school that she is not right. [[Abg. Großruck: Who's taking 10 percent away? That's a shame!]] There is another interesting article, namely in the “Standard”: “Economic Minister Bartenstein advertises in Berlin”. Go to Austria, says the Minister of Economic Affairs. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] A very interesting approach. Minister Bartenstein says or assures that there is “any support” for the reform plans of the red-green government in Berlin”. I think this is very interesting, especially when one follows the debates here in the House, in which you constantly mention and list Germany, which is all bad there. But Your Minister gives all these measures his personal support. [[towards ÖVP]] – I congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's still going on. What does the Minister advertise when he advertises for Austria in Germany? – He says Austria has the lowest “body tax, no commercial tax, more flexible labour market, if not as flexible as I wish”, and so on and so on. “Austrian working more than Germans would have less holidays.” –x So far to what we find in Austria. What does Minister Bartenstein say in Austria? – It all has to be much more flexible. We extend the opening hours. The people in Austria are still too flexible, they still work too little. In doing so, the ÖVP family party is completely wretched about how the employees are doing in trade or similar businesses! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Nor are you concerned about promoting jobs that are future-oriented, which offer a corresponding income, because: What have we had since the last opening, since the last extension, Mr. Federal Minister? – Full-time jobs have become less and part-time jobs have become more. Is this a desirable labour market for you that people have only more jobs of which they cannot live!Unknown term type: "%s".? - Obviously it is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] More than anything else, Mr. Minister: The labour inspectorate is raising in these areas: In 2002, although fewer holdings were checked, much more were found to have been committed. Over 18,000 infringements on 14 000 inspections! That's what you're trying to do as Minister of Economic Affairs and Labour? - You can't be serious! That's why you're changing the shop opening times? What should this opening up of the economy bring? – This is the argument that we should have longer opening hours. – Mr Federal Minister's reply: Unfortunately, this cannot be said because, as he rightly notes, it depends on several factors, for example on the economy, which, thanks to your policy, does not improve, but rather gets worse. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I come back to the “standard” article, according to which you advertised for Austria, which is very commendable. Friedrich Rödler contradicts you by saying that “the tax and tax burden in Austria is four to five percentage points higher than in Germany”. Well, Mr. Minister, I have not been surprised to see that the “s boot king” has responded and offered this 15 percent “minister’s discount for everyone!” He may be doing something to boost the economy, but this is not as sustainable as your labour market policies. This offer lasts exactly three days, and it seems to be similar with your labour market policies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] So that I do not over-stretch the overall speaking time for my interlocutors, only briefly on the labour market statistics, Mr Federal Minister! 55-60-year-old unemployed in Austria are unemployed for almost a year, over 60-year-old unemployed are unemployed for almost two years. Two years of unemployment means that emergency aid comes to fruition. But your department is working to turn emergency aid into a social aid that will certainly get people even less than before, with which they will not have a right to re-training from the labour market service, with which, according to current mode, they will not even be insured. This is another example of how the government secretly replaces the social state with acts of grace. – This formulation does not come from me, it originates from the “press”, which is not known to be a particularly close to SPÖ. You should at least take this to heart!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10813	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10831	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Silhavy, I am very grateful to you for the quotes from the “standard” regarding my visit to Berlin yesterday. – Yes, I support the measures taken by the red and green Federal Government in Berlin to strengthen the German location. Yes, I support Chancellor Schröder with his Agenda 2010 and especially wish him that what the SPD's Special Party Day has decided by 90 percent majority can then also be implemented against the left in the SPD and above all against the trade unions. It would be necessary urgently. Mrs Silhavy! I support this not only in Germany, but Austria's economy is so closely associated with the German that the Red-Latin position of Germany can be anything but right for us. It would be urgently necessary for Europe, but also for Austria, for Europe's largest economy, namely the German one, to move away from this Red-Latin position to the position of the growth locomotive. [[Abg. Silhavy: You have to explain this to the ÖVP and the FPÖ!]] That's important! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I also support measures in Germany to liberalise shop opening and add: Saturday till 8:00 p.m., they're not our plans! We want to stay for Saturday at 6 p.m., but your colleagues in Germany want to be open until 8 p.m. on Saturday. – This is not entirely in line with your argument that you have just presented. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Why does Germany worry so much about us? Why can we not be satisfied if we discuss the budget chapter of the economy and work? – Because we lack growth! Austria as a relatively small economy is growing, Germany is probably partly also, the European Union is waiting for what comes from the USA. And – it has already been mentioned – if it is said today that the growth forecasts for the next year will be revised downwards in the eurozone, then this is a circumstance that can make us anything but happy. Our own forecasts for this year with 1.1 percent plus as well as the Germans with zero commas several, who knows which tenth behind them is not a good starting point – not for labour market policy and also for budgeting is more difficult. Prosperity can't be achieved without growth. The Euro-dollar relationship is something that needs to begin to worry about us. If the forecasts occur that it can go up to 1.25 : 1 if what you hear from the USA is true that, while protecting the pound in Washington, perhaps also politically retrospecting, it is quite welcome that the euro will become very, very strong against the dollar, then it may not be today, but at least tomorrow a wormhead drop for our export economy that goes beyond the euro area. In this, in no light environment, we have an economic and labour market policy, ladies and gentlemen, which can still be seen and really! For example, Mr Moser, you have little appreciation that we have a positive trade balance for the first time in 2002 after decades. - You don't appreciate it. I mean, this is an extremely good success for Austria's economy, for Austria's export industry, which can be seen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That this is not only because Austria has imported little last year, but also because of the fact that our export industry was particularly successful in 2002, European champions among export economies, with an increase of 5.5 percent far above the EU average, which has been added here. If we are told by Wifo's prognostics that, despite all the problems in world trade, we can expect plus 4.3 percent in 2003, and if we know that since 1989 – and in the next few years, this will continue in the same trend – we will benefit particularly from external development in the no longer candidate countries, but, as honourable Members have correctly said, to the candidate countries of Central and Eastern Europe, if we also know that Austria is disproportionately committed and also successful in the future also EU member states of South-East Europe, the Western Balkans, I can only thank the export economy, which is also medium-sized and oriented in many ways. It is the carrier of Austrian prosperity, it contributes a large part to our prosperity, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It has so far been unmentioned, I say it: We will support these export efforts of the Austrian economy even more than before. This includes the establishment of a strategic agency for foreign affairs. Of course, it will also be my support for political interventions where they are necessary and sensible and appropriate. But we also want to take money into our hands, and this will be €25 million per year from federal funds and €25 million per year from funds from the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, which will give a total of €50 million additional impulses for Austria's export and foreign economy. This is fixed for the years 2003 and 2004, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs. State Secretary Extraordinary, my former State Secretary, Mares Rossmann, has already mentioned the need for tourism. Tourism development is a good one, and it has something to do with your former activity not only. - Thank you for that. Winter tourism was good, was good about expectation, and we'll see what summer brings, but I think it'll be quite successful for our tourism companies. If you say, ladies and gentlemen, that tourism and other medium-sized enterprises need tax relief, I can only say: Yes! But I also ask you to say yes to the tax relief which we have brought into the House no less than €400 million in tax relief for our small and medium-sized enterprises, a halving of the tax rate up to profits of €100 000, of course, provided that the money does not benefit the entrepreneurs personally, but that they leave it for investments in the enterprises. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] – Mr Oberhaidinger, you are an energy expert, where the structures are generally slightly larger; they are usually over €100 000 a year. But this is not so much our target group, the OMC and the big e-economics. However, the middle class needs this discharge, and this, Mr Moser, is actually the best basis for accepting this proposal from the government. But you don't want to. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is important that I was able to say, among other things, yesterday in Germany: Yes, we have attractively low corporate taxes. At the time, Lacina and Ditz - Lacina, one of yours - did this, and we want to continue. A corporate tax rate, i.e. the tax rate for companies and capital companies which apply to untapped profits, is not bad at 34 percent, but we want to lower it further. With the 2005 tax reform, we want to achieve at least 31 percent or a little less. I look forward to your forthcoming approval. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At this point I would like to thank Mrs Sburny for her recognition of this step. You have explicitly said that the tax relief of medium-sized enterprises is correct. I think it is good for a member of the opposition, in spite of all the necessary criticism and discussion with the government, to hold this in a budget debate. Ladies and gentlemen! Research and development, education, these are topics that we are talking about and which we are heavily investing in: €600 million in addition to research, educational expenditure, which is higher than in the past, ministers who are extremely committed to furthering these, in fact, most important structural policy activities of Austria. As Minister of Economic Affairs, I always say: The best economic, the best infrastructural policy is education policy, is investment in the young people of the country and their education, training and qualification, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Location Austria – that’s what it’s all about, that’s what it was about yesterday in Berlin. It's right: The tax burden, as Mr Rödler said in Berlin, is too high, but we are working to reduce the tax and tax burden, and €3 billion – the largest tax and tax relief in the Second Republic – in the years 2004/2005, that is a step, a big step in the right direction! Apart from that, the location of Austria is a quite qualified one: In the last ten years, from 1992 to 2002, wage unit costs have been down by 10 percent. As far as the liberalisation of electricity and gas is concerned – as social democracy has participated and in part also the Green Group – it is important that we have succeeded. It is important that the Brussels EU Commission has approved the energy Austria, the Austrian electricity solution, during these hours or days. It is important that our labour market is more flexible than the German and French and others in Europe, because it is precisely the flexibility of the labour market that is perhaps the crucial criterion of the location, where Europe as a whole has disadvantages in relation to the USA and one must work to overcome these disadvantages. We have workers in Austria, who are among the best-privileged – this is always demonstrated. I mean, we have a flexible working time in the business reality, which is only to be welcomed. I would like us to be able to finally clarify what is happening here today in the grey area of legislation and to say to the undertakings, to investors more clearly than before, which is ultimately permitted by law, if it is implemented on the basis of collective agreements or business agreements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – You know more than my experts at the Ministry! They believe that the law on working time is almost illegible and that it is urgently untapped, and I am of their opinion. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In view of these positive aspects which concern the labour market, let me also come to what, Mr Tancsits and I, can lessen our enthusiasm: Even if we are looking forward to a record employment of 3.2 million people, if we can be pleased that we still have the third lowest unemployment in the EU comparison, it is still higher than we want. But if you say, Mr Moser, that we are moving towards EU cut, then I must hold on: There we are very, very far away! I can tell you: The EU cut is 8.1 percent. So we have only half the unemployment of the EU cut. I am very grateful to Mrs Bures – who, unfortunately, is not in the hall after her very critical remarks – for her comments on youth unemployment. In fact, the SPÖ – as it has often been in energy policy in this country in recent months and years – has been involved in this, and there was a good social partnership agreement when, in September 2002, a large youth employment package was signed to combat youth unemployment. More than €100 million has been made available – and most of these funds have been spent in the year 2003 – in order to provide either such or at least a course for all young people who need an apprenticeship. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At the time, there was a joint vote by the House, a common position of the social partners in this country, and I think it is a question of political honesty that we remember in June of 2003 what was decided in September 2002. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder.]] If you don't, I'm free to remind you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say: I have explained several times why I consider the pension scheme to be labour market-friendly. If you do, Mr Oellinger, Mr Mag. Citing Guger, whom we have also consulted several times in the small circle as experts, then you know that the Wifo and Mr Mag. Guger says that the pension scheme reform, that the early retirement phase brings some 80 000 workers into the labour market, which is distributed over 14 years. These are, Mr Oellinger, 5 000 to 6 000 people per year. They know that even in the weak growth year 2002, 8,000 additional employees in that country could be brought into the labour market and that 15 000 to 20 000 new jobs will be created in average years. So this 5 000 to 6 000 workers will be able to cope with the labour market, and that is why this pension reform is also labour market-friendly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! One last: Let us not underestimate the accompanying package for older workers, because not every day we can talk about an additional wage reduction of € 140 million – 2 billion old schilling – in the House. I would like to say that we are particularly concerned about labour costs and the additional wage costs of those age groups who do a little harder on the labour market than those 25 to 50 years old or 55 years old. I insist that we make a special effort to reduce additional labour costs and reduce the number of young and older people, because we want to improve their employment opportunities. I conclude by saying that I am looking forward to this discussion, which I have already attracted several times, with interest. I mean, We, the legislator and the Federal Government, are doing this to improve the employment of older workers. Now the collective contractual partners responsible for wage and income curves over the lifetime are required: It is about flattening the life income curves, it is about higher entry salaries. – Sallymutter once told me on TV that it has been working on it for 20 years. - That's too little! When are we there? Finally, a discussion about one or another biennial jump at the end of the whole process also needs to be held so that the total cost does not increase. The reason why I say this today is because, of course, when implementing the relevant directives of the European Union, we will have to discuss the fact that higher wages alone are not justified by EU law. If this has to do with more experience, more skill, more loyalty and more, then EU law will be different, but only to pay higher wages by biennial leaps for the elderly, this is an aspect of a discussion that we, ladies and gentlemen, will have to face.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10973	I call Mr Grillitsch. The clock is set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10991	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Austria is an excellent sustainable economic location! I also say: Our rural area is an excellent sustainable economic location, because this government always manages to think globally and act locally and to create predictable framework conditions for people in this rural area. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have nothing to do with constantly hearing that this rural area is a longing, hopeful area. I say quite frankly to you: We need this stability so that this rural area can continue to be a sustainable economic area, where people find work, where people generate income, where people can invest and where value added remains in the region! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This will be very crucial to the fact that this rural area is and will be a hope area. [[Abg. Parnigoni:... Demigration?]] I would also like to draw your attention to another aspect today, Mr President, because I have your calls for call and Their polarization against the peasants is striking. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: No!]] You should also see, yes, at last, that agriculture and forestry in this rural area is really a job turbo, a job generator is 448 000 people – I emphasize: [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Undisputed!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Undisputed!]] 448,000 people! – find work in the agricultural sector, in the downstream and downstream sectors, work, 250 000 people find work in the forestry and wood industry, not in agglomerations, but in decentralized rural areas. I therefore believe that it is simply necessary to pursue a sustainable policy in this rural area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have a number of possibilities, thanks also to this courageous reform government, including the changeover of the tax system, on the one hand to relieve and, on the other hand, to burden resources and the environment accordingly. I say quite frankly to you: We have a huge chance to start a technology offensive in the field of renewables in truth – a technology offensive, because we also need the use of these renewables to meet the objectives we set ourselves at the same time: Kyoto, Toronto and the like. In this area of renewable energy, it would be possible to provide 30 000 additional jobs in the near future if we also provided the necessary framework conditions for those people who have the courage to have the strength to show risk outside the regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also have the opportunity to take advantage of a huge advantage in the field of information technology – I see that my speaking time is about to end – especially for rural areas, by reducing distances and getting information more quickly. This is also an opportunity, especially for rural areas, to make special use of this technology. Finally, I would like to address a particular topic, which is particularly important to me, because it also has a large social component: ensuring local supply in rural areas. It is also of great importance to older people living there. Here we are, I believe, particularly demanded, and I am confident that we will succeed thanks to this government too!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11092	Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Seven minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11110	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vorsprecher, I can only fully agree with you – as far as renewable energy is concerned. [[Demonstratetive applause and bravorage at the ÖVP]] Thank you for the applause! [[Call the ÖVP: Why don't you go...?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Because it is too little for us and is wrong, but in principle it is about converting you to take our path of renewable energy, because, as you have argued, it offers huge job opportunities, especially outside the regions, especially in rural areas, and because it allows us, above all in technological terms, to develop technologies and to market technologies that bring us forward in the export field or to give us an advantage. [[Abg. Friend: There you are fellow riders!]] [[Abg. Friend: There you are fellow riders!]] There are already examples of how oberösterreichische Unternehmen, especially in Bavaria, conquer markets with these future technologies, gain markets, only: Our path is a much more offensive one, a much more sustainable one and probably a faster one. That is why we are: we are progressing faster in terms of labour market policy, we are gaining more technological advantage, and we are just one step ahead in the direction of sustainable energy situation and economic situation. The fact that this is urgently necessary proves the various data. In this context, I should like to point out one aspect: They have not dealt in any way with what is urgently needed in terms of labour market policy, namely the reduction of additional labour costs, to the extent necessary. This would be very job-creating, very job-enhancing, Mr Minister, especially for the precarious employment of young people and also for those who are already older and often fall out of the labour market. Why don't you take our recipe? I can only point to this: In particular, our environmental tax reform has the aspect that we are not even investing revenue from the eco-taxation sector in the reduction of additional labour costs, thereby bringing about innovation shifts and thus also, above all, creating job security. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Perhaps in this context I can give you a brief tour of the “South German newspaper”. There a philosopher, who knows himself relatively well in the economic field, Mr Bernward Singing, pointed out that the path of ecology would have to be followed in response to the crisis. It refers not only to the labour market, but also to environmental network thinking as a whole, also to eco-tax and, in particular, to financial policy, where sustainable and environmentally meaningful investments are to be made. I have at least the impression that financial policy in your area is anything but sustainable in some respects, because it is geared towards the introduction of relatively rapid proceeds. Another quote – this time from the budget issue that concerns your department: Here you have budgeted revenues, private services – I can name the items exactly, namely 2/63014 – to the extent of 177 million. If we ask what we have done to you in the Budget Committee or in the Budget Subcommittee, then the answer comes: These are expected proceeds and dividends from the BIG. They're one-time proceeds! If you then check with the Federal Property Society, you will find that there is now such a great deal of pressure on the basis of your expectations of revenue for the rapid sale of 4,000 to 5,000 dwellings that only a very, very low value can be achieved. This is, please, not a sustainable property policy, but, unfortunately, this is – I must say – a concealment of the Republic's assets! Of course, one can discuss whether it makes sense for the federal real estate company to have apartments to the current level. You can certainly discuss this question, but you have to be careful – especially at a time when you are always talking about debt reduction, when you are talking about an enormous improvement in the income situation – to ensure that we sell at a time and sell to an extent where we have good proceeds! – But with you everything comes to 2005 for which you seem to plan the biggest tax reform in world history – I may exaggerate it a little humorously – and with this in mind, every means is right for you, and whether it is also the concealment of valuable real estate. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Zweytick]] I could cite examples of this, but you will read it in Bälden, too, in the various magazines. Minister! Finally, I would like to make a brief comment on something you have mentioned in your speech. They have pointed out that education is the essential factor of an economic location, of offensive economic policy et cetera. – I take I would also like to say to the Minister for Finance and point out that one of the most depressing aspects of this budget for us is that adult education – an area which is not unimportant to economic policy – has simply been completely removed by you. – “Thank you” for this anti-economic measure!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11200	I can invite Mr Dolinschek to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11236	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I thank you for the invitation! [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the Freeman.]] – Minister of State! High house! The development on the Austrian labour market is quite good in international comparison: Youth unemployment is much better than in the rest of the world. Improvements are, of course, necessary in the area of long-term unemployed and women's employment. Work is being done on this – the budget is geared towards the budget accompanying law as well. With regard to the improvement of the situation in older people, one aspect of this is the reduction of additional labour costs for over 56-year-olds and 58-year-olds by 6 percentage points and for over 60-year-olds by 12 percentage points. I believe that this is good and right, but it will be a little too little. In order to achieve something really serious in this area, it will be necessary to link a package of measures, such as making a slightly flatter life income curve, or a departure from the cutting-off culture and a transition to a preservation culture and also the adjustment of the bonus malus system. All of this certainly helps to strengthen the consideration of company ownership. The amendment of the labour market service law is also an important factor: This is about creating a right to qualification measures for under 25 years olds as well as for over 50 years olds, so that for these persons, if they do not get work, participation in qualification measures of the labour market service is also justified. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The changeover has often been criticised by the opposition because the early retirement pension is gradually being abolished for long periods of insurance. But I have to say: An unemployment benefit, calculated on the basis of the last reference, plus 25 percent is 70 percent of the last income – this can actually be seen! It will also benefit those people who are covered by the new regulations between 2004 and 2006 and cannot retire. Dear ladies and gentlemen! When I listen to the arguments of the SPÖ and read today’s edition of the “Press” in which the chairman of the Social Democratic Party Alfred Gusenbauer means – I quote –: We do not want to take back this pension reform, but “our task will be to make a new pension reform in order to balance the deficits,” I must say: How you want to do this is a mystery to me! I recall the former Minister of Social Affairs Lore Hostasch, who said that the criticism that a longer calculation period will lead to pension losses – I quote – is: [[Call the SPÖ:Similar speech... bowl...!]] Don’t forget, “the new pensions will be above the average of the existing pensions.” – Well: That's the case, too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Listen to me so you can learn!]] Mrs Silhavy, her predecessor as a social spokesperson for the Social Democrats, Mrs Reitsamer, at the time has argued that a 36-year-old official would get so much less by extending the calculation period to the last 18 years, and so much less in percentages, I quote: “I dare to doubt” that such an example can be expected at all. [[Abg. Reheis: This is the same speech!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That you may know!]] Further: “At 36 years of age, you should look at this in each case. This also applies to the private sector. ... And you forget wage increases, you forget pension adjustments.” – Well! But now there are some calculations of what would be if, without taking into account pension adjustments, without taking into account wage increases! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, you are actually very sorry that you were not able to take part in the pension reform. But I do not understand you at all, Mrs Silhavy. You've always criticized the ambulance fee lately. Now it has been abolished, but you have not voted in favour of abolishing this ambulance fee. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Eder: This is a fool...! That's a nonsense!]] [[Abg. Oils: ridiculous! That's ridiculous! ... against the introduction!]] They weren't for a tax reduction either! On Wednesday you were opposed to the vote on the Budgetary Accompaniment Act. At the end of my remarks, I would like to mention the following: With 1. In May of this year we had a record of employees in Austria. This is due to a good winter season. For the summer season, I think I can be optimistic that there will also be a new record. I am convinced that the former Secretary of State, Mrs Rossmann, has contributed significantly to the achievement of this result. [[Call:Bravo]] – Thank you, Mrs Rossmann, for fighting for our economy! In view of the development of the figures in Carinthia, I must say: Four years ago, winter tourism made up 10 percent of the nights, now it's a third. This is the result of many events. The Harley Davidson meeting, the GTI meeting, the beach volleyball tournament, the Ironman, and so on: All this is priceless advertising! It is being criticized by colleagues of the Social Democratic Party at smaller festivals, at fire brigades and so on again and again that this is actually absurd, but that is what the money comes into the country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. That's such a fool!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Reheis: That must be the heat!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Are you so hot?]] To Austria, Minister of State: I congratulate you! Austria is able to record new records of the arrivals in 2003. We are with 1,500 € revenues per capita world champion at the nights. This is excellent, and I can say: We're on our way!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11424	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11443	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Schöls of the ÖVP – I have looked around, he is not present in the room at the moment – your Guardian defenseman has called my group a “suspector group”. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: What?]] – A “suspector” fraction! To the address of the great "beautiful speaker group" in this House: At a time when, according to AMS statistics, which was also in the mailbox with you today, as now, with the end of May, unemployment has increased by 3.4 percent and the number of young unemployed by 9.9 percent, I am Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, much rather a member of a “concealer-group” – because there you have to suspect, then something can't be true! – as a member of the Schönredner Group, which you belong to. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's not a secret, it's to be read everywhere: The economy is starting to rise. The number of unemployed is fairly slow at European level. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The construction industry, an important engine in an economy, has been paralysing for years! But if I look at your budget approaches, I realize that this federal government really does not intend to do something about it. There are quite a number of measures, Mr Federal Minister, which would do a lot quickly, easily and with relatively little financial use. According to Wifo – I am looking for you to read it yourself – there are currently 743,000 housing units in one and two family houses in Austria, for example. They were built between 1945 and 1980, and I do not reveal a great secret when I say that all of them have a very poor energy quality, and they are urgently in need of renovation. [[Abg. Wittauer: You did them, didn't you?]] There are two studies which say: A study by the Danube University of Krems by Dipl.-Ing. Holzer says that by optimizing heat protection measures, for example, a typical Austrian family house could be made from a money eater – approximately consumption: 2 000 € per year – an energy saver in the order of 500 €. CO2 emissions would be reduced from 12 tonnes to 2.5 tonnes per year. In a study conducted by the university professor Getzner by the University of Klagenfurt, a profitability calculation was made, which shows that thermal rehabilitation would bring profitability between 7 and 14 percent; Amortisation period 7 to 14 years – really a good return, a good investment, a good investment! The most important result, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that such a rehabilitation offensive could also create some 11 000 jobs. I am quoting an unwarranted witness, Professor Kramer, who, in this example alone, speaks of a win-win situation: It would win homeowners, as would the economy, especially the construction industry in the main and secondary sectors, and it would also be the environment! I only mention the ozone warning to be heard early today and the environmental certificates to be expected, ladies and gentlemen, which will cost us a lot if we do not act in good time. However, there are only approaches to talk about it, to negotiate it. It is not a question of talking here, not of negotiating for a long time, but of acting quickly and decisively, in the sense of our economy, in the sense of our employees and in the sense of our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11507	Mr Dr. Stummvoll spoke as the next speaker. Speaking time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11536	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer briefly to the first speaker of the SPÖ, namely Mag. Moser. At the moment, I don't think he's present. I know him from the Financial Committee, I very much appreciate him, also because he is a very objective and objective Member. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But]] One can very well argue with him on the basis of facts and facts, Mr. Cap, but he does one thing – and I would like to point this out to two examples of his speech today –: He tries to find something negative about it again and again with such positive figures. (!) [[Call to the ÖVP: So they are!]] I would like to give you two examples. He pointed out today that we have had a positive trade balance for the first time for 30 years and that this is more so because of the weaker domestic demand than because of the success of exports. I would have expected a member of the opposition also to thank the hundreds of thousands of employees in the export companies – perhaps some, a few, even his voters – and this is not negative again. On the basis of his speech, I inquired briefly at the Chamber of Commerce and found out the following: Since yesterday, the final figures of the trade balance have been available – so far only provisional figures – and they are as follows: Increase exports by 4.34 percent, decrease imports by 2.32 percent. – In other words, the increase in exports was twice as much as the reduction in imports. This is a success of our export industry, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Second example: Mr Mag. Moser pointed out the report of the International Institute for Management Development in Lausanne, which publishes the annual World Competitiveness Report. I always look at these very carefully, and I can say: Since 1998 we have constantly improved our position, since 1998 we have been from 24. ==References== Place, so move around eleven places. That's what Mr Mag says. Moser never, however, but he quotes from a newspaper in which a certain group of countries were calculated, and it happens by chance that in 2003 Austria stood by two places from 8 to 10 compared to 2002. Place worse. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A madness!]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: I thought we were on the 11th?]] Mr Cap, I would say: It is the legitimate right of the opposition to criticise the government and to make alternative proposals on content. But I would suggest the following: We welcome the fact that this year, compared to 1999 we have more 50 000 jobs, that we have a gross domestic product, which is 10% higher than that we have for the first time since 1999 a lower tax and tax rate that we have had in the fight against poverty from 1. January 2004 will have an almost 20 percent higher compensation rate for married couples. Take pleasure with us in these successes of the government and don't look so darkly three!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11628	Mrs Mandak is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11696	Mr President. Thank you for granting the word. I'd also like to come without an invitation. – As a family spokesperson, I would like to address the subject area of shop opening times. There are two pages in your government program that are very significant: For one thing, write under the chapter “Family and Generations”, promoting a family-friendly working world is very important to you. But, as it were, in no time, write under the chapter “Economics and Location” that you are very important to liberalise shop opening times. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, I would just like to say to you: You will have to decide what is more important to you here: family-friendly shop opening times or a liberalisation of shop opening times! Decide! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Both of us are important!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's not a question of Either-or!]] [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: This is no contradiction, Mrs Colleague!]] This is certainly a contradiction, Minister Bartenstein; perhaps not so in the world in which you seem to live, but it is a very strong contradiction especially for those women who are trading and do not know what to do, where to give their children, who care for their children in terms of quality when shop opening times are constantly extended. We are currently holding at 21 o'clock during the week and at 6 p.m. on Saturday. I know exactly that the trend is moving in the direction of deregulating it even further, to liberalize it even further. The Minister of Finance has made this very clear in his budget speech, and you all, after completing his speech on these words and on these approaches to his policy, have gratified. [[Abg. Scheibner: No applause for that!]] With regard to the effects of the extended shop opening times, it seems unclear to you that the price for this is first paid by small companies because they can no longer afford the personnel costs, and secondly, only the large companies that will benefit from it. But families too have to pay a price as a result of the difficult childcare opportunities and the ever less time that families can spend together. The third point is that the atypical employment relationship will naturally increase even more by extending shop opening times. You know exactly that this is going to increase all the time. At present, it is already 10 percent of all employees – and there are no part-time jobs that account for more than 17 percent of them – who are working in such atypical employment conditions. Most of them are women. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Do you want to... lock, or what?]] – I do not want to lock up, my colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner:..., but then what are you doing?]] – It is about knowing exactly that the purchasing power is not increased by the fact that the shops are open on Saturday until 6 pm. That is why no more euro will be spent. None! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But perhaps you also know that very many people, mostly women, because they are mostly women, are forced to work on the weekend, because the voluntaryity we always want to imagine that workers must agree and only need to come voluntarily, is not there. Please talk to a seller in an interspar or in any other store! If you only have a bit of a good relationship with the people and have this confidence in you, then they will tell you that they have to work. It is not true that this is a voluntary decision of the employees, but they must, because they know exactly that they are otherwise the neighbors who lose their job. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is exactly why we have enabled the alarm flashing system here – in the truest sense, as here. [[The red lamb flashes at the speaker’s coil]] What you're still left untouched is Sunday, but I'm sure: With regard to the basic attitude that both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economic Affairs have – I know it does not have all of you – I also see the work-free Sunday at risk in this basic attitude. There have already been approaches to this. You have already created quite neat loopholes through the revision of the trade regulations. This creates a good increase in Sunday shopping opportunities. We need to look at it, and civil society will also have to be very careful about what your future plans are going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11827	The next speaker is Mr Walch. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11862	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! To my previous speaker from the Greens: Mrs. Colleague, Sunday will be free, you can go to church or stay at home. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Oillingers: The alternatives are a little bit...!]] This will remain the same in Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! FPÖ and ÖVP will not do what you might have in mind; these are thoughts of you that we dare not even think. [[Abg. Mandak: But you often talk other things here than outside!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I have to tell you: I am particularly pleased today when I read in the press that Dr. Gusenbauer thinks that if you came to the government again – he says it is far behind – you would no longer be able to open up this pension reform package. That's where I ask you: How do you explain this to people outside? [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It's too late! That's what it's like to see him having special difficulties. I heard Dr. Matznetter and colleague Cap saw hard on his chair. Be careful that not all chairs are gone with him at once! I don't know if you'll get another chairman! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Why did Dr. Gusenbauer say that? – Because some in the SPÖ whispered to him that it would be better to get the privileges that it would be better to make 15 percent reductions that it would be better to make one percent contribution increases that it would be better not to burden the political pensions as much as we have done! We have made the right decisions! [[Abg. May. Kogler: You already have decisions...?]] I'll tell you, I am particularly pleased that this is also supported by the SPÖ President. - Please hold on to your boss! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now I come to the labour market situation in Austria. The labour market in Austria is still one of the best but not as satisfactory as we imagine it in other EU countries. That is why this Federal Government has put in a lot of measures to secure it in the future. Next year, the enlargement of the EU will take place, and some countries in close proximity to Austria will move into the EU House. In this context, I am pleased that our Vice-Chancellor and Social Minister have brought together to create a seven-year transitional regime for the free movement of workers. [[Abg. Oils: reading – thinking!]] This is very important, because if there were to be low-cost workers from EU countries on the Austrian market, the following would mean a reduction in wages for Austrian workers, because they would have to work for collective contract wages, more unemployment, of course less money in the pocket. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Oils: What's that?]] – Forethought, so well thought. Another very important point: to keep older workers in employment longer: Action 56/58. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Think first, then talk!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] – Mr Oellinger, watch out for a little, otherwise you can't explain it again! Further: Right to further training. – There was no such thing in the past! What was under the SPÖ government? – There was simply leaving the person in unemployment if he was not ill, he had no right to further training, and then he got the emergency support. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] If only one family income, but several family members were there, then one was actually sentenced to hunger. So it was, Mr Oillinger, that's the truth! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In addition to the cost reduction, the promotion of apprentices, the extension of part-time work, the number of disabled people, the “hackler rule” – 45/60/80 per cent –, heavy-worker regulation for the construction workers: All this will come in 2004, that is future music for Austrian workers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12046	The next speaker is Mrs Becher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12064	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Just briefly to my previous speaker: I can assure you that the opposite is the case of what you have prophesied here, because we would certainly not take note of the decision taken here and revise it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now go back to reality. I am speaking here for the Building Committee and would like to comment briefly on the consequences of a possible sale of the BUWOG apartments, because the fact is that a single sale failed – for various reasons, also because the latte was very high – and was not perceived by the tenants and only about 1 000 apartments are available for sale. But it will continue to operate, and that is why, we discussed this yesterday, consultants have been brought here: Lehman & Brothers and a friendly law firm, for which we have 10.9 million euros to pay, that costs that much. Now a law on the exploitation of federal property is in preparation, and this law provides for two variants. The first variant is that the properties of the Bundeswohnbaugesellschaft are to be sold directly to third investors. – But this is only possible if a legislative decision is also taken, because investors want to make a profit when they buy it. That means that the WGG would have to be changed, and that would apply to all the non-profit. That is to say, the upper limit on renting would be opened, and that would be a very fatal situation because, of course, the system of public utility and the promotion of housing would be at stake, because what would then distinguish non-profit apartments from private rental apartments? The second possibility it opens up is that the properties of the federal housing company will be transferred to the BIG. In this case, the BIG would have two more options. On the one hand, it would have had the opportunity to sell the real estate itself, which would entail an improvement obligation, namely the difference between book and actual sales value. But then the same problem would occur as for variant one. In other words, it would be necessary for future buyers to open up a random profit to investors – therefore that is not likely. It is to be feared that BIG's direct shares will be sold directly to third-party investors. There are already indications of who that could be. ==References====External links== May is called the real-estate finance that might be interested in it. When you know the personal contexts again, you know that the broker is Mr. Plech, who is also on the Supervisory Board of the BUWOG. [[Abg. Oillingers: Sometimes there are coincidences, there you can only be surprised!]] If that were the case – that would, of course, be a very cheap purchase, since the assessment would be made according to the book value; the remedial duty would not be required – who would pay it then? – The bill would pay the taxpayers in this case. In summary, it should be noted that: Both variants must be rejected from our point of view: In the first variant, all tenants would eventually pay, and the second variant would give valuable family silver more or less. The only result that would be made to book would be that this sale would give a one-time proceeds for the budget – and we reject that!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12107	I call Mr Fassleven. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12125	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For us, full employment is not only one of the most important labour market policy objectives – it is by far the most important – but also one of the most important social and political objectives at all. We have therefore made every effort to achieve full employment, and in the first two years of this government we have managed to reduce unemployment by 50 000. In the last two years they have increased slightly, but are still significantly below the value of about 1988. I can give you the numbers – number for number, month for month. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] But not only the international economy is crucial – it is very difficult. According to your definition, there is a recession not only in Germany, but also in Italy, in the sense of a decline in economic development over two quarters; the definition always depends on. Of course, this has a retroactive effect, but we are undoubtedly also suffering from the long-term consequences of your missing labour market policy! I would like to call you the seven main sins of social-democratic labour market policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] First: For decades, they have fed and subsidized Marode state-owned businesses – at the expense of a healthy economic development of the others. Tens of thousands of jobs that we are missing today have gone on. Secondly, They have also supported false structures, such as the wage curve, as the Minister Bartenstein has already mentioned today, which has clearly made it difficult for the labour market conditions in Austria as a whole. [[Abg. Reheis: That's where you went! You've been in government for 15 years!]] They have for decades failed to promote a central element of our training, dual training. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It speaks a roundneck!]] In recent years we have promoted more youth jobs, more apprenticeships than you have in a quarter of a century. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You have had the “retirement strategy” with older workers – for good reasons, you have made this good faith, but it was the wrong method. They maintained a structural conservativeism in the AMS area, where only management was maintained. We have managed to reduce mediation by one whole month within the shortest time. [[Abg. Reheis: That's incredible!]] These are achievements! To date, you have not said a word about the real mega problem: to Vienna. No word! Therefore, I will give you very briefly the following information: Vienna has a share of 19.3 percent of the total Austrian population. The total unemployment rate is more than 34 per cent. [[Abg. Krainer: What about the jobs?]] Yes, the unemployment rate is 41 percent for over 50 years. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – I can answer that in a moment. The long-term unemployed account for 55 percent, which means 20 percent more than in all other Austrian states. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder: 200 000 Lower Austria commuting daily to Vienna!]] – If you don't think so, I don't know. At the end of my remarks a very brief comment, because today so much talk about Minister Bartenstein's shoes was: I have known an Austrian Chancellor – he may be known to you – who did not buy shoes in the department store, but only dimension shoes, and supposedly his discount for much higher than that of Minister Bartenstein. [[Abg. Eder: This is a primitive attack on Vienna!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12264	I call Mrs Weinzinger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12282	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! And very special: Mr Bartenstein! They have managed, as ministers seem to be able to completely eliminate the "Lappalie" of 52 percent of the population in their previous statements on economic and labour market policy. I can therefore offer you a small ass bridge for how you might succeed in the future, in business... – Okay, I'll try it again. [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign to restore the peace.]] I would still like to offer the Minister an ass bridge for how he can make it possible to think of women even on issues such as economics, entrepreneurship and the labour market: According to a common cliché, women are very interested in shoes. So, Minister: If you think about shoes next time, think of women. Shoes – women. [[Abg. Steibl: But that's not going on anymore!]] Perhaps then shoe policy will have a positive impact on the economy of Austria! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You may also like to think of shoes and women if this somehow gives you pleasure. Among the main areas where women are affected as women entrepreneurs, it is certain that women entrepreneurs, especially when they have to cope with the start-up phase, are still informally disadvantaged in Austria. [[Abg. Steibl: You do not seem to be able to judge that! I don't think so!]] You all know for sure the relevant investigations and data that say that it is usually more difficult for an entrepreneur to get start-up capital from a bank, especially for the very famous new ventures you usually have, where small individual initiatives attempt to put something on the feet, where people's creativity is rightly conjured, where, however, for the women who want to act creatively, capital is often a huge problem. [[Abg. Steibl: Probably that was Bank Austria!]] There are distortions in the practice of banking, clichés and prejudices that exist. I think that at least one should actively intervene against awareness-building, but also actively. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to address a second area of entrepreneurship, namely those where many people do not necessarily become entrepreneurs, namely all those in the service sector workers, where services from employee relationships are suddenly outsourced by free entrepreneurs. In particular, women in this area are very easily and repeatedly at risk of existence and subsequently fall into poverty, because the order situation is not secure because it is not sure how their future looks and the fixed position that it once was is gone. [[The noise level in the meeting room is increased.]] I note that there is incredible unrest here in the hall when a woman talks about women as women entrepreneurs. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, take note that economy is not a pure man's domain! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I therefore strongly propose to Mr Bartenstein that there be targeted support for female entrepreneurs in Austria. [[Abg. Steibl: I will give you some examples!]] It would also be exciting, Mr Minister, if you were to present a statistics showing the proportion of economic support awarded by your place of business today, for women and for the share of men, in total, and not per promoter, which benefits them. I would also like to point out that we are not only dealing with entrepreneurs in the economy, but also that the Minister of Labour is required, not only the Minister of Economic Affairs; that Minister of Labour, whom I expect to contribute to the reduction of male-female income scarcity and to the increase in the employment rate of women, the Minister of Labour, who, as the only measure known to me to this point, is to introduce an information note in the Mother-Child Pass on the possibility of mother-child training in the karenz phase. Minister! This is too little for an active labour market policy and for the reduction of income scarcity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the end of my remarks, I should like to urge you to say at last that 52 percent of the population are female, that they are economically active and not only as consumers, but also very creative and potential, which you need to promote accordingly and fairly. [[Abg. Lentsch: This is something new!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12426	Mr Dr. Niederwieser spoke on an actual correction. – I ask for correct execution.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12448	Mr President. High house! As part of his speech, Mr Fassleven spoke about a supposedly missing labour market policy in the past and noted the SPÖ several times: [[Abg. Lentic: Right!]] You have, you have, you have. [[Call:That's true, too.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: What's wrong or right?]] The fact is that the labour market policy between 1986 and 2000 is responsible for a coalition of SPÖ and ÖVP. I wonder what you've done to make your own work in the past so bad.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12514	What a honourable Member is asking himself is not in itself an issue of actual correction. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I call Mr Scheuch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12544	Mr President. My esteemed members of the government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this opportunity to say something which has not yet been said in this debate, but which I believe is very important: If you talk about work and economic policy, you should say of this speaker's voice, once again those hundreds of thousands of workers, the tens of thousands of SMEs, who are the backbone of the economy, who, whether left or right, maintain our country's economic policy, especially thanks. Thank you. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: You forgot the farmers!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: So far!]] Policy, especially economic policy – as I would like to address Mrs Moser very briefly – should always have the objective in mind, not the way. You have spoken about it, Mrs Colleague, that we want to go different ways and go. I think it's important to have the goal in mind. If I may make a comparison: I really don't care whether you're on the To drive south motorway to Carinthia or on the Murtal highway, important is that you come to Carinthia! [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: By train!]] You can also come by train, it is important, you come to Carinthia, because this Carinthian – and now I am back to the economy – is a country, as Mr Grillitsch mentioned: a country with many scattered valleys, a country that certainly does not have a good starting point from the economic location, and, ladies and gentlemen, also a country that had similar problems as Austria as a whole: a decades-long SPÖ government – debt policy, debt policy, debt policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] When I look at this, I often get the impression that the SPÖ in Carinthia has really been determined and working precisely to take the last place in Austria; probably it was a party-political consideration, one absolutely wanted to get the red lantern there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I can only “thank” and say, We'll do better! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If at least one would use the new beginning, then at least one would say: Now let's do it! The Federal Policy reminds me again of Carinthia; I have to make another comparison: Both in Carinthia and in Austria, it is true that the party chairmen have created a new rule, the new rule of SPÖ, the golden rule of the three J Sorrys, Shame, Shame! [[Abg. Brosz: Lead!]] [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I don't think that's enough. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should support the economic policy that is being made here. I am convinced that it is a good approach to a new future. Because Mr Brosz says "loyal", I think of Carinthia again, I thank you for the key word. We have set new accents in Carinthia. We've expanded tourism. Mr Dolinschek has already told us. We have strengthened the economy. We started a small business offensive. [[Abg. Oils: A very small one!]] There will also be such activities throughout the country. Mr Oellinger, you will have to take note, something we have at least done in Carinthia: There are three parties there in the Landtag and not four. This is, I believe, a good approach to the fact that the economic competence of the Greens seems not to be fruitful. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: You would probably prefer a party!]] - No, I don't like that! On the contrary! [[Abg. Oils: Look at the three anyway very similar!]] I give you the right that the path is not easy, the path of economic policy is certainly a more difficult one, especially if the signs are not particularly good worldwide. But I mean, the bourgeois Federal Government has managed, even in times when there is an economic flaw, to use the sails strategically, so that it can get a certain wind and take advantage of the ride. The SPÖ has done only one thing in times when, economically speaking, a very strong wind has blown: the sails have been destroyed and pulled back into the hull of the ship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12702	Mr Rada has now been notified to the House. Mr deputies, you want to speak for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12721	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr Fassleven, I do not know where you live, from which constituency You come, then I would have said you quoted from a wrong statistics. If you look at the statistics – and these are still quite fresh – from the end of May from the district of Gänserndorf, where you live, when you look at the poster statistics, from your place of residence in Marchegg to Vienna, then you have to say: One can only be glad that there is the big city of Vienna on the border to the wine district, because without it unemployment is not at 5 percent, but at 10 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Fassleven! We will say this very clearly and clearly to our voters in the district of Gänserndorf, in Hollabrunn and in Mistelbach. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Hollabrunner back to Hollabrunn!]] Mr Federal Minister, it has been said that prosperity does not function without growth: The growth, for which Mr Fassleven has been responsible for much, much longer, lies in this district in the Argen. Mr Oberhaidinger said today that the budget approach to housing is absolutely no economic approach. There is a very interesting interview by ÖVP building speaker Großruck, in which he talks about renovations of the apartments, renovations, energy engineering maintenances. Its big goal is to make apartments lead. [[Abg. Grandruck: The one doesn't exclude the other!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! How can the apartments be controlled by what you decided yesterday with the new pension reform? Sage You're telling me: How can young people come to sedentary apartments if...?
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12782	Mr Grossruck! If You want to give a speech, speak up!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12803	Mr President, he can keep talking. – Tell the young people how the apartments should become manageable for them if they have to provide for their own later retirement! Let's look at the construction industry! It was also said that we had never had so many people in employment. But none of the previous speakers of the government parties have said what kind of jobs these people are in. But we have never had as many unemployed as at present. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] This is also due to a missing construction policy. What happens in the field of construction? Nothing's happening here! I should like to come again to my dear colleague, Mr Fassleven. We could move so much in the field of construction in our wine district. We don't move anything – at least we don't see any signs, Mr. Federal Minister – in terms of bridges strike. We have the east extension – but we do not have bridges. We have a public transport network for which we are already being smiled from the East. We have not yet come further with regard to the Vienna bypass. There's nothing going on either. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, perhaps something to pass on to the Council of Ministers: Our students in vocational education and training have internships to complete, but they do not find places, Mr. Federal Minister! It is not up to the economy to provide young people with these practical places which they need in order to be able to survive later on in their working life.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12852	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12870	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! These two federal budgets in 2003 and 2004 contain a number of valuable initiatives, whether for export promotion or for research and development, whether for capitalisation, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, or for the stabilisation of the labour market and more. For a few hours now, we have experienced a rather interesting expression of oppositional confrontation with these budgets. My colleague stupidly pointed out: Mr Moser von der SPÖ has rather lowed the trade surplus we achieved for the first time last year. That was more suffered than worked out. Mr President, Mr Stumpfully has already shown that this is not true, but that there has been a real growth in exports. If you know how important it is to export as an engine for our economy, I think that with these 25 million who are now taking control of the Federal Government and the second 25 million that the Chamber of Commerce is taking over again, the point of strengthening exports is exactly where we seem to have potential to stimulate the economy, namely in stimulating exports. Mrs Silhavy wondered about the support of the Minister for Economic Affairs for the initiatives of Red-Green in Germany. What's there to wonder about it? Unfortunately, the Germans have much worse problems than we do, but in the basic structure they are similar: They are no longer in control of the costs of financing pension systems, health systems, the community as a whole. Only, we manage to tackle and complete the reorganisation of these systems. It is to be hoped that the Germans, on whom we are not immeasurably dependent in our economic development, will do the same. Ms Silhavy is surprised that our Minister of Economic Affairs has called the Austrian tax and tax rate too high in Berlin. That's right, but we did something: We lower the charges on the profits not collected, thus strengthening the businesses and much more. [[Abg. Gradwelt: But she did not say that...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These budgets are an impressive summary of the policy of recent weeks: The SPÖ and with it also the small opposition party criticize and insecure – the ÖVP and the FPÖ act and shape.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12907	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12925	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For hours now we have been talking about economic data and how good Austria is supposed to be, how low unemployment is, how high employment is. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel and Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein have a conversation.]] Mr Minister, I think you really don't know what's happening at the base. I'm from Steyr. – Minister, could you listen to me?- Oh, my God! I feel so disturbed when you talk to each other all the time. – You really don’t know what reality is anymore. In Steyr, the situation looks much different than you have been trying to demonstrate for hours now. Mr. Molterer, you know, because you come from the neighboring town: There is an extremely high youth unemployment in Steyr – and that for years! All you have so far offered to young people are training measures, with the following result: The young people get into this training; and then the so-called turn-door effect comes out: they are inside, they come out unemployed again, they are back somewhere on the road for a few months, get into the next training and get out of it again unemployed. For a time, the young people fell into this, because they had the hope that something would change, but at some point they ended. For the fact that youth unemployment is falling, that young people really get a job, you haven't done anything. Mr. Molterer, you also know the statistics and the data from Steyr. If you are honest, then you must admit that these promises have not been met in this region and that, above all, the balance sheet how good you were with your policy does not apply at least to Steyr. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There are, of course, so-called unemployment projects in Steyr: In certain enterprises, unemployed people receive work in the form of internships, with the aim of finding a long-term job there. But this is not the case, Mr Minister, but it is quite simply the same that these companies keep persons coming from training projects, from foundation projects, only as long as they are supported by the public authorities. And when public support ends, people are gone again. Then the problem starts again. If this is your labour market policy, Mr Minister, which you hold so high, I think, no, then I know that is a missing labour market policy. The young people who stand on the streets don't get your percentages, absolutely nothing! They don't bring them any income, and they don't bring them a job. People want work. This applies not only to young people, but also to older workers who are there as well and do not know how to bridge the time to the pension. They simply don't get a job because they're already too old for the labour market at 48. What are they supposed to do? And then you come and say we need workers in the care sector, there are 30 000 missing. That's exactly where women should start again as re-primary women. It is true that there is a lack of 30 000 workers in this area, only, Minister, who is paying for this work? That they are missing, that alone is too little, there must also be someone who gives the money for people to work there and get their income. But there is no such thing, Mr Minister, and this is largely at the expense of women. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They also expect flexibility from the workers and that they are available to the company at any time. But, Minister, the necessary childcare facilities, which ensure that children are cared for in the time when their parents have to work, are not available. As long as you do not allow each child to have a secure place in child care so that young women in particular have the opportunity to go back to work, unemployment, especially among women, will not decrease, but will continue to rise. Mr Bartenstein, you are always talking about how many new companies there have been in recent years. That's true, there's been a lot of new business start-ups, but you also know that there's never been as many bankruptcys as in recent years. Many companies were founded and have been “compressed together” within a very short time, and people are now standing, not only the founders, but also the employees, and do not know how it continues. There's something you need to think about, you have to sit down. Minister! It is not enough if you make occasional business visits to companies that may go quite well. Look You really go to the affected cities, for example, look at Steyr, and let people tell you how they are and under what conditions they have to live in part! They have no idea how many people in Steyr alone are losing the apartment because they no longer have a job and can no longer finance their rents. [[Abg. Steibl: You are really very one-sided! ...!]] Mrs. Steibl, you can believe me, I know what I'm talking about. I live in a settlement, in a very "normal" settlement, in which 5 500 people live. There are the fates at home – and not in the bungalows and castles where you live, because the people don't come there at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12995	The next speaker is Mr Wattaul. 5 minutes speaking time is required. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13013	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Economy and work against the background of EU enlargement. I think we're well prepared for Easter expansion. It is very important to me that we tell our youth that it is important to learn, to be flexible and worldly. It is important in this area to increase our advantage when one knows that low education means unemployment in the future. For the basic. In the past, it has always been said that we live in Austria with a social network, through which no one can fall. I think that's wrong. Today you have to say: Education, mobility and openness are an absolute necessity. Don't ask what the state can do for you, ask what you can do for your future! We don't live on an island, we live in the EU. We need to see and take the opportunities, and there is no alternative to that. As an entrepreneur, I would like to say that entrepreneurs and employees create jobs together. Only motivated entrepreneurs can also succeed. As an entrepreneur, I tell you, our most important asset is our employees. No class struggle, but together look optimistically into the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13043	The next speaker is Mr Steier. Preferred speaking time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13062	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The real estate company of the federal government must look for private investors. This is a summary of the Quintessence of the government's plans for the management of the federal property. The Federal Government's plan is the starting point, according to which the BIG has to deliver a total of € 464 million to special dividends in 2003 and 2004. There are no specific plans of the government, and there are clear guidelines for planned privatisations. By 2006 all state shares in Post, Telekom, VOEST-Alpine, VA-Tech, Böhler-Uddeholm and so on are to be sold. The ÖIAG will be dissolved, with €200 million for 2003 and €100 million for 2004 in dividends in the budget. This year, the Federal Property Company has to provide € 182 million and € 282 million in special dividends. Dear ladies and gentlemen! As the BIG's turnover from the operating business will not be sufficient to meet the needs of the Minister of Finance, it will be essential to go to the substance of the company and sell the housing stock or at least large parts of it. This is about 10,000 homes which will be sold in two tranches over the next two years. Only questions what strategic orientation is behind this plan – except for making money for the budget. If I remember correctly, the basic intensification of the BIG foundation in 1992 was to align the Federal Property Administration with private economic circumstances. In the specific case, however, the question arises whether the free market is not taken too literally by a special dividend that will go to the substance at the BIG. To stay with a visual comparison: If you slaughter a cow, she will certainly no longer give milk. [[Abg. Neudeck: But she no longer eats food!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Reports on the fact that the non-necessary property is to be filed out of the BIG in order to sell it to more financially viable partners lead me to the next open questions. The Court of Auditors has called for the Federal Republic of Germany, the Länder and the BIG to develop a long-term approach to the management of real estate, ensuring optimal revenues for sales. Is it therefore already – I wonder – ensured that the upcoming sales will be made in the coming years on the basis of such a concept? Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has secured a right of improvement in the sale process. So if more is achieved in sales than the book value, the difference is to the Minister of Finance. But: How motivating will this right of improvement affect the sale negotiations? – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13098	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. Speaking time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13127	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Take business instead! It is a shame that Mr Weinzinger is not here now, because I would have liked to have given her some success stories from Styria, but apparently it is so that you will give his speech and then have no interest in this subject anymore – take it instead: [[Abg. Mandak: She'll hear you for sure!]] This philosophy followed 30 000 Austrians last year and founded their own companies. This means a new junior record, and the trend towards self-employment seems to be unbroken even in economically sensitive times. I regard these figures as a positive sign for our country and also for the Austrian economy. Our young founders, the new generations of founders, are those who will decisively shape the Austrian economy and create new jobs in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, the way to independence is certainly an exciting one, but, of course, sometimes a more risky one. From present experience, young entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, especially need the following three components in the first stages of their independence: a needs-based infrastructure, a management know-how and the integration into networks of contacts, cooperations and business mentors. I would now like to introduce two projects, which are very important to me myself and which I have taken the initiative with the support of the State of Styria, the City of Graz and the Federal Ministry responsible, with the support of Minister Bartenstein. I would like to thank the Minister for supporting young entrepreneurs, such as the first Austrian Founder Centre of Styria, in Graz. Here, 15 young entrepreneurs in the technology sector have found their home; within a short time, they have absorbed 12 employees and expanded the market. The The same is true in the business incubator, where twelve entrepreneurs have moved into business in half a year and follow entrepreneurship there after graduation. I think that precisely these two model projects show that when young people – and we have excellent young people who have courage for entrepreneurship – get up and get support, they also survive far longer than these three years – the first three years are a difficult phase. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you: Take part in the excellent measures of our Federal Government for Economic and Labour and contribute to the preservation of prosperity in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13183	Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13201	Thank you, Mr President. – Minister! Then, in my speech yesterday, I have now prepared an introduction to the WTO for you. It seemed to me that you did not know exactly what role the individual ministers had in setting up the WTO regime. That's why I want to look a little edifying now. The WTO history is, of course, linked to GATT, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which, after the Uruguay Round, which lasted from 1986 to 1993, was concluded in 1994 with the ratification of the WTO Treaty. In this ratification, the Austrian Minister for Economic Affairs, Dr. Schüssel, concluded this Treaty. In addition to the International Monetary Fund, the WTO becomes the most powerful international organisation. Why? – Because it is the only international organisation with massive sanctions. I would like to talk a little bit about free trade, because we have to deal with economics and politics here, and I would like to draw your attention to what free trade has to do with an overturned leader. A look at the history of the great defenders of the free exchange of goods in the United States and Great Britain shows that even in the phase of the development of their economies, they have used tariffs, subsidies and other means of state protectionism. In reality, the developed countries, when they were still in the development phase themselves, have not followed any of the political strategies they today recommend to those commonly called developing countries. Its technological leadership, which finally enabled it to move towards a free trade policy, had thus been achieved by the UK behind high and very long existing customs walls. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the image of the conductors: The most important German economic list then compared British entry for the free trade with the conduct of a man who overturns the ladder to the other, without which he himself would never have come upon a high wall. If free trade were to be such a great thing, after the many steps to liberalise trade in recent years, economic growth would have actually accelerated over the last 20 years. In reality, however, the world economy grew much faster between 1960 and 1980, when there were far more protective mechanisms and other regulatory instruments than today. In the bad old days, global per capita income grew by about 3% on average, but in the last 20 years, only 2.3 percent. In the developed countries, annual growth in per capita income slowed from an average of 3.2 per cent in the years 1960 to 1980 to an average of 2.2 per cent from 1980 to 1999. In developing countries, growth rates even halved from 3 percent to 1.5 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it must be noted that there are many good theoretical reasons for believing that free trade between companies with very different levels of production can bring short-term benefits to the poorer countries, because they will then have larger export markets at their disposal. It is equally plausible, however, that free trade is affecting the long-term development of these countries because it sets them on production processes with low productivity. – This problem, by the way, has been clearly seen by wise politicians in countries that have led to an economic catch-up, and has led to their rejection of the free trade strategy. We Greens want to oppose the concept of traditional trade and free trade. The principle of cooperation between producers and consumers applies to fair trade compared to other forms of trade. The central theme of action is sustainable development. Sustainability, ladies and gentlemen, is also a favorite concept of the ÖVP, as I take away your programs. For this reason, we want to inform our Minister for Economic Affairs of the following rounds of negotiations in Cancun not to represent fair trade as a small niche, but as a future form for a successful development in this world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13268	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl is surprised by the word distribution at that time.]] – Unexpectedly often comes!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13299	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Austrian economy is strong. All parameters prove that, yes, we have many parameters above the values in other EU countries. We see, after we are not the island of the Blessed, as we have jointly established that the economic policy of the government bowl has been successful and bears fruit. And, ladies and gentlemen, we should be proud of it! With all the weaknesses we still have to improve, there is absolutely no reason to make Austria sick, and less to pray the country sick, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Bible says, I think, somewhere: Rejoice! . Mr President, although we still know these passages, we are pleased. – Rejoice! because if we did not do well, we could not afford the luxury of 30 years of socialist “management policy”, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will continue this successful path. We have put in place the right measures and in the future we will put in place the right measures, such as a reduction, a qualitative reduction, additional labour costs, and we will put in place fiscal measures that revive the economy. We will discriminate against the profit that we have not taken, although this is not understood by many ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] I'll tell you: The profits not collected will lead to new investments. And Mrs. Haidlmayr, I would have liked to write to the main book: Jobs do not grow on the trees! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] – Mr Eder, jobs are only created by competitive businesses in this Republic. You will also have to take note of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will also put emphasis on the fact that more money is going into active labour market policy. This year we have planned the highest level of funding of € 783 million, and we will demand the AMS as an attractive partner for employers and employees, and we will also promote it so that mediation works even better than it has been done so far, ladies and gentlemen. That we are on the right track proves to you an article in the "FORMAT" Mr. Lacina, Mr Christian Konrad and Mr. Andreas Treichl that we are very much on the right track with our actions. [[the speaker holds an article entitled “How We Make the Rise” Up]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Wolfgang Schüssel said yesterday that everything we do has to do with psychology. A strong asset of the Austrian economy and economic location was in the past of social peace. In conclusion, let me call on all the groups concerned to accept the Federal Chancellor's offer for discussions at the Round Table on the harmonisation of pension systems in the next week. Ladies and gentlemen! The economic location of Austria will thank employers and employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13392	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13410	Mr President. Federal Minister! First of all, a few comments on Mr Tancsit's comments. They are constantly talking about the alleged right to education for young and older workers. So, I didn't find this legal claim. - First of all. [[Abg. Friend: Too little wanted!]] - No! I can read, don't worry! Secondly, we asked the Federal Minister what additional resources are intended for this additional training. Interestingly, we have received the answer that no additional funds are provided for these measures, but that there is a need for efficiency improvement and that there is a shift from passive to active labour market policies. In the clear text this means that colleagues in the AMS can work even more and have less time for the unemployed. - That's what your policy looks like! Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I will come to my next favorite theme, to the situation of trade workers and to the situation around the shop connection and the shop opening. I'm allowed a press release from the 6th century. Citing May 2003, in which Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, said: It is hard to believe, but the law was passed in the Council of Ministers today. And the Federal Minister has shown himself satisfied. Mr Federal Minister, you will understand: Whenever you prove yourself professionally satisfied, all the alarm bells ring to me, because this can't mean anything particularly good for the workers in that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can now invite all of you to move to the situation of an employee in the food trade for a few minutes: This bill – should it be passed as planned – means that instead of 6 p.m. being able to lock up the business at 5 p.m., one can close it instead of 7.30 p.m. at 9 p.m. I can also tell you that the goods have to be prepared in trade one hour before locking up, and of course the goods have to be cleaned away after closure of business, which in turn means an hour longer work. Now I count: 5 a.m. – from 4 p.m. the goods have to be made. In Austria, I estimate that the average worker, the average worker, takes about 45 minutes to reach the workplace. You can calculate that the alarm clock must ring at 3 o'clock at the latest so that you can have your sausage summer at 5 o'clock. – That’s where I really wonder if this is a worker-friendly thing, whether it’s family-friendly! In addition, the majority of women are employed in trade. How do the ladies do this if, for example, they are single mothers? Then what are they doing with their children? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this occasion, I should also like to point out that not only trade is affected, but also trade-like services. That is to say, a hairdresser will also have the “possibility” in the future – or simply have to work on Saturday to 6 p.m., without the good provisions we have negotiated in the trade collective agreement. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! That's your woman-friendly policy, and that's your family-friendly policy! – Thank you very much! We will remind the electorate.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13475	Mr Schweisgut is now speaking for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13493	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would perhaps like to take a brief look at the comments made by Mrs Csörgits, who spoke very forcefully a few words in the representation of the trade workers. As a tourist representative, of course, it hurts me a little if you hear that nothing can be moved in trade, nothing can happen, but that workers in tourism, even in all other services, are of course also at their workplace at certain times, i.e. when the customer needs it. [[Abg. May. Worm: Women's work!]] I think there is a need for a certain rethinking in some areas, and there must also be a little more customer orientation in a service company. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would like to talk – and this is my main topic – to those affected, namely to the workers concerned in the area of tourism. In short, I have addressed tourism and work as a topic for today. I would like to say, of course, that this constant nagging, particularly by some trade union representatives, does not work well for tourism workers, but does not provide a bad job for the tourism industry. I believe that, in the area of tourism, quality offensives, improvements and more intensive customer input have increased the proportion of workers in recent years and these many strongly increasing figures have been generated. The fact that the image is out there – as I have said, it often comes to squeezing, nagging, lamenting – is a bad one, I believe in us, too – with “our” I mean also the representatives of politics – so that we need to improve this image. In tourism there has been since 1. January already the minimum wage of 1 000 €. This too is a voluntary introduction of the tourism industry, in order to bear the symbol externally. Of course, tourism is also a matter of great importance in the field of youth work. Of the 150,000 employees in tourism, about 13,000 are apprentices. That is about 12 percent of all Austrian apprentices, although only 4 percent of Austrian employees are employed in tourism. There is also a very strong input into the training of young people. I believe that this is an opportunity in international competition and in the international labour market. There is also an opportunity for tourism, as I would like to present here today. In any case, our government is doing much to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises. These include, in particular, the discharges which have been decided in the last few days. I think that a very good example of this is the treatment of the profits not taken. Overall, I can thank our Federal Minister for his commitment to tourism. I know that together we will significantly improve tourism as a workplace in the next few years. Tourism is a state of the Austrian economy and it will continue to be in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13539	Next speaker is Mrs Scharer. The watch is set to 4 minutes if desired. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13557	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor praised the AMS yesterday. It is indeed true that it has been very successful in implementing the distribution of the AMS – under SPÖ government at that time. The AMS is recognized throughout Europe, in the Hartz paper – you like to quote the Federal Republic of Germany – you will find numerous cross-references. I am all the more sorry if some Members do not appreciate the work of the AMS in Vienna. I beg you, talk to the employees, talk to the unemployed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What's going on now? – The Federal Government is delegating numerous measures to the AMS, including the qualification measures. Mr Dolinschek, you originally spoke of “right”, in your last speech you have already spoken of “commitment” – I hope it will not be a force for the unemployed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These measures – with regard to the expected increase in access to the unemployed and the settlement of part-time, transitional and so on – are undoubtedly only possible if the corresponding funds are made available. Where's the budget for this, Mr. Minister? – 130 planning sites are already missing in the AMS. In addition, the AMS will still dissolve the reserves. I think there is really reason to worry that you are starving the AMS and that you are adopting the principle of solidarity. The unemployed know not to have a lobby! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Highly qualified younger people come to the labour market every year, which is then unemployed, for example in rural regions, do not find adequate jobs and move to central areas or abroad. Remember that this will also cause the rural regions to lose a lot of knowledge and culture! Budgetary resources would be important to create business settlements specifically in these regions. We have excellent gastronomy companies – my previous speaker has already done this – that train hundreds of apprentices, but which then migrate to other industries due to the well-known, difficult working conditions. Mr Minister, how do you solve the problems of employment in gastronomy? – First of all, they abolished the tourism state secretariat. You have dramatically increased the season kidney quotas within a short time – since you are in the government. I can only call you a number for winter tourism: In 1999, 1,980 seasons were planned for the winter season, and in 2002 they were already 9,220. [[Abg. May. Hans Moser: Insanity!]] Overall, together with the summer season, the quota has increased since 1999 from a total of 4 254 to 16,065 quotas. This will help you achieve the following labour market effects: Seasonals are cheaper, wage dumping comes, and service providers show no willingness to develop seasonal measures or working time models for domestic workers. In no other industry are there as many labour-law offences as in the hotel and hospitality industry! Gastronomy is also at risk of losing its quality, and many businesses are not trying to exploit the domestic employment potential. At the end of May, for example, 33,000 foreign people were reported unemployed, who were ultimately caught up in the economy; not even they have a chance to get back into the gastronomy! The problems cannot be solved in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an active and innovative labour market policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13615	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. He made a three-minute speech again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13635	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! If the economy is stagnating, the economy is required to move even more. For this purpose, our Federal Government – Wolfgang Schüssel and Martin Bartenstein: tax relief for untapped profits, increased investments in research, or, for example, projects like those I would like to introduce to you, an example for private public partnership, a model of private and public partnership. ==References== In June, the Cargo Center Graz will be opened in Werndorf near Graz. €77 million. Due to the private public partnership variant, actual costs of €65 million could be reached, which is a savings of €12 million. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the economic location is concerned, a very important company, the Magna Graz plant, has done excellent work in this area. 1 500 new workers are taken up. This is crucial for the economic location of Austria, but also especially for the economic location of Styria. Nevertheless, in the context of the site question, I would like to point out that in the course of the planned, very important and necessary introduction of road pricing, Styria will suffer a huge disadvantage due to the double toll. After the introduction of the Road Pricing, the toll fee for a journey from Graz to Salzburg will be twice as high as for a journey from Vienna to Salzburg, although the journey is almost the same. We still have to succeed in finding a way to achieve a balanced, just solution so that sites in competition are not disadvantaged. Finally, to tourism: With 1. In April 2004, Slovenia will join the European Union. There is great concern for a neighbouring region and border region that we will be faced with a new Objective 1 region after possible target definition. I already know the problems and the challenges, and I would like to encourage you to consider whether we should define these target areas, these funding areas, for the future, in terms of funding by regions as a whole without borders. This enlargement, a historic reunification with Slovenia in particular, means the reduction of borders, but with the definition of a Objective 1 area, we create new borders. It's a little counterproductive. We Austrians once lived in a very large country, in the monarchy, and therefore have a great responsibility for our culinary heritage. That must not be mixed. All borders must be open. Our kitchens and cellars are among the tourist highlights around the world. Thanks also to the chefs and hosts of our Austrian hospitality. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13676	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13694	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The AMS statistics of May 2003 show: Of the 215,000 unemployed people in total – 214 955 are quite accurate, figures and facts are just as important to you as I am, Mr. Federal Minister – about 45 percent only have compulsory schooling and 36 percent have completed teaching. This means that by far the highest risk of unemployment exists for those persons, which do not have an education beyond compulsory education, and that is almost half at 45 percent. This shows me – and many speakers have already said this today about the government parties – how closely education policy is linked to labour market policy and should be linked to political responsibility. It has also been said today that in two weeks school is completed. Ladies and gentlemen, there will again be a few thousand young people who will not be accommodated in their desired school in the next school year because there are too few places there. Perhaps they will not have a place in a school at all, but will push on the labour market and look for an apprenticeship. On the other hand, there will be many compulsory school leavers who are looking for an apprenticeship and will not get one, because some thousand – in the last few days and today the numbers have already been mentioned – are in the waiting loop, also need a teaching position and are waiting for it. I think it's a little too little if we're always just responsible for the bad economic situation. Too much has happened, Federal Minister Bartenstein, in the field of youth and youth unemployment, in relation to the fact that many things have been withdrawn and abolished, for example the apprentices' foundations. Much has been lost, as is the case now, for example, with the budget resources that are no longer available for training. The financing of these measures must be carried out entirely from the reserve of the AMS in order to ensure that the young people are at least in a bridge. Mr Federal Minister, I have already asked you to do this in committee, perhaps you can give us a reply today: There is an apprenticeship fund of the ÖBB that in autumn 58 apprentices would have the opportunity to start an apprenticeship. Such an over-company workshop also has the meaning that things that other companies cannot afford. That means that this must and should also have a model effect. It only needs one signature – once “Bartenstein” – so that such an apprenticeship foundation can be established and start from autumn! Mr Federal Minister, this request has been on your desk for months, and you have not signed it to this day. Maybe you'll tell us why not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That means that young people can't really do anything to make the situation the way it is. Federal Minister! They always require concepts from us. We have prepared a ten-point training programme which I will leave you here because the speaking time is no longer sufficient. That's why I'm just referring to a few headlines. Education policy and labour market policy are so closely linked that we say that education and vocational orientation should start very early in school. I discuss a lot with students who actually say: I'm going to have too little advice. How could it be that I will advise sooner and better? – One could do that from the 5th century onwards. Introduce school level. It should be possible for young people to be able to catch up with their primary schooling free of charge as a minimum condition for perhaps taking a good job. There are still many, many more points, Mr. Federal Minister. Finally, I will leave you with this package, perhaps we can discuss it in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13763	Now, Mrs Marek is speaking to us. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13782	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Even if I belong to the “beautiful speaker” group – but if you talk about Vienna, you can’t talk about it yourself with a lot of self-overcoming and imagination. Sorry! [[Abg. Mandak: But only because it has a social democratic mayor!]] A few facts. – First of all: Vienna is the only state to have experienced a decline in employment in 2002, namely, of 9,776 employees. That's 1.3 percent minus. Great number, but unfortunately wrong sign! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Secondly, Last year, Vienna had the highest unemployment rate of 9 percent. [[Abg. Riepl: Do you know how many Lower Austrians work in Vienna?]] This is more than 2% more than in the Austrian average. [[Abg. Riepl: Do you know how many Lower Austrians work in Vienna?]] Upper Austria, by the way, had almost one and a half lower unemployment. But Landeshauptmann Pühringer is certainly willing to send a few tips to Vienna. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Thirdly, In 2002, Vienna had 8 040 long-term unemployed from Austria in total 12 892. [[Abg. Gaál: And know that Lower Austria 300 000...!]] Fourth: In Vienna, people are the longest unemployed, colleague Gaál. [[Abg. Gaál: 300,000 Lower Austrians work in Vienna!]] It cannot be pointed out often enough: On average, they were 152 days unemployed in 2002 – oh! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] A look into the west is also very interesting again. [[Abg. Riepl: Who wrote this to you?]] In Tyrol it was 67 days, with an overall average of 106 days in Austria. – "Impressive" labour market policy in Vienna! [[Abg. Gaál: How can one read such nonsense?]] [[Abg. Silhavy: In Vienna...!]] But that's opposition policy, too. If one were finally to get under control of the problems of the Vienna labour market, the target value formulated in the government programme – 90 days of residence – would be realized already, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13950	Mr Gaál, please let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13977	Breathe all the way, Mr. Cot. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I would like to add the remaining 599 points of my list, but unfortunately my speaking time is very limited. However, I think it has been an impression.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14013	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14034	Mr President. Minister! High house! It is very interesting what Mrs Marek has just said. But it has only addressed one part, only one area, because, unlike the Federation, a lot happens in Vienna. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] For example, there are 800,000 employees in Vienna. This is a higher employment than in the previous year. It is also true that there is a record of business start-ups and that, in particular, international businesses come to Vienna, especially in areas such as biotechnology and other areas that are forward-looking and innovative, but not inconvenient, as the Federal Government always describes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is also true that in the event of insolvency, the city comes in, for example at the company Grundig. 670 employees are sent by the city of Vienna to three-year training and retraining courses. Such examples would also be necessary in the covenant when it comes to pleading! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] There are also measures for sold production sites such as those of the former ÖVP delegates. She has sold Inzersdorfer, where 150 employees would now be on the street. Vienna then takes over the social plan and makes sure that these employees are not left in the rain. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One can see from this “Entrepreneur of the Year” and from the former ÖVP members: If the ÖVP is responsible, it wants to steal and take responsibility. [[Abg. Mr Lentsch: Mr President!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – Of course I mean that in the sense of “go quiet”, gentlemen! It is true that Vienna assumes and carries responsibility, whereas the Federation pushes it away. – These are the different approaches of the federal state of Vienna and the Federal Government to the labour market situation. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make another point on the subject of employment and the labour market: inclusive vocational training. This would enable young people with handicaps to extend their teaching time or to come to partial qualification. There was a very efficient social partners' agreement, but unfortunately the government did not, because young people with partial qualifications do not get equality with teaching contracts. – That means they don’t have a professional education requirement. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Disabled young people can learn in the workplace, in the profession, but they do not receive a right to education from this government. – This is extremely discriminatory. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A gender equality law will be negotiated on the federal side, and discriminatory measures will be introduced on the other hand. Minister! I demand It's on: Change that in this draft! Today is the European Year of People with Disabilities. Do something!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14104	Mr Maier is now speaking for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14125	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of the few remaining time, let me sum up and conclude. I actually wanted to talk about the Vienna labour market. However, since Mr Marek has already shown very impressively that the Vienna labour market is the final light, I would like to refer to the statements made by Mr Scharer and Mr Lap. It should be noted that, unfortunately, there are the most sluggish instruments for the labour market in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] I have already explained here that the Vienna employee fund – the fund that the city of Vienna has set up – had 32 employees in 1997 and 4.6 million euros. He now has 219 employees and around € 14.5 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] However, unemployment has increased and jobs have become fewer. – But I have said that here before. Now I would like to insist that the labour market service – Mr Eder, you should be careful! – is unfortunately in a state which, despite the reform that was launched last year, is worthy of improvement. [[Abg. Eder: I am always careful, my colleague!]] In Vienna the length of stay with the job seekers is the longest. – Mr Marek has already said that. [[Abg. Eder: Always resort to Vienna!]] The following questions were answered in principle: What the city of Vienna, under the Financial City Councillor Hans Mayr, has put on funding in this company, although one knew that this technology has no future, you have to answer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Eder, as it is currently up-to-date, I would also like to point out that what we need in Vienna is a union that is not there for a strike, but that is trying to make these labour market instruments efficient. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A foam carpet in front of the Federal Party headquarters is not the solution to the labour market problem! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] It is not the solution to the labour market problem either, if you let the employees of Wienstrom, Wiengas and the Wiener Linien strike and believe, with this you move something. You should just look at today's listing of the ÖGB, as you notice its quality. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Broukal and Mr Eder.]] The fact that Mr Nürnberger did not deserve to be printed as “Nürnbeger” is probably what you will agree with. Read this through! – This is the quality of your policy. In fact, this is a campaign – “out of the dirt cube” you can no longer say how I learned today, but at least: from the container. [[Abg. Eder: (an issue of the “Kronen Zeitung” to the height) That's the dirt dome! Your listing in the “Kronen Zeitung”!]] What the policy of the container has for a success, you did on 24 February. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14246	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Hoscher. The speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14265	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Mr Ferry Maier for the re-definition of the word “slow”. This was not much more original than the other speeches you have already made in the Federal Council regarding Vienna. I bring some information on this “sloppy” economic policy in Vienna and I also say a few words about my colleague Fassleven and colleague Marek: You must also include the few hundred thousand commuters, who find work in Vienna, and also the fact that every fourth work force of Austria works in Vienna. Is the Ferry Maier still there? - Very nice! [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] To the expression you used “slowly”: I can say a few words here on economic promotion in Vienna. If we are already at the budget, we look at the budget of Vienna: In 2003, there was an increase of 90 percent in economic promotion, which means an increase to € 205 million. – Your group should have told you that in the Vienna Landtag! The investment ratio was increased by 12 percent in the 2003 budget. There was €6 million in addition to technology innovation promotion. Furthermore, with 6 500 new establishments, Vienna is the number one in the start-up operations in 2002. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you're talking about the unemployed, you have to look at the economic structure a little bit, so you know where they come from. To colleague Mitterlehner: This week, Mr Kopf – also very “original” – has meant that social democracy is, as it were, due to the weakness of the equity of domestic businesses. Mr Mitterlehner said today that the Social Democrats were guilty of the lack of demand, because of the uncertainty in the pension reform. – We want to let anyone who is not sure about it. The fact is, however, that – and this should have been the case in the Chamber of Commerce – demand, which private consumption has already fallen in the last two years. Perhaps this is kind of correlated with a government change in the year 2000? – You should consider that a little too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On behalf of my colleague, Mr Scheuch, let us not forget this: He has pushed the debt debt in Carinthia towards the Social Democrats. He is a very young Member, and it is also very worthy of him to sit here. But you should look at the debt and the development in Carinthia a little bit and go back to history: The debt in Carinthia has exploded in my knowledge between 1989 and 1991. – Three times you can guess who was the head of state! [[Ah-Rufe and congratulation at the SPÖ.]] To Mr Tancsits, we are at the heart of this: A rental increase is not in the room, Mr Tancsits has meant. I wonder how he comments on the statements of his own building speaker. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Only the Vienna supply values!]] – Mrs Fekter, you have been a building speaker once, as far as I remember. In fact, the building spokesman of the ÖVP Großruck announced on 14 April. May increase the rents for older cooperatives at least in the new rental case, i.e. in the transfer to children – the ÖVP is the most child-friendly party as we have heard. – This is also to be read in an APA message, so that is not an invention. Thus, rents would rise by around 90 percent in the case of transfer, since Großruck believes that the 70 percent of theburger-based indicative value to be applied at the moment in the WGG is anachronistic. All right, so Grossruck says rent limits are anachronistic. [[Abg. Eder: He knows each other!]] But not just big truck! ==References====External links== In May, not even two weeks later, and says that under certain conditions one can talk about increases in paid apartments. - That was still on 27 November. May, and the colleague Großruck has already drawn colleague Neudeck a little over the table again, because he already demented everything in the press a day later, but only after the association for housing promotion and also the workers' chamber had taken up the topic. [[Abg. Eder: Brake in!]] Then a halfhearted Dementi comes from Mr Neudeck, who thinks that before the summer there is no need for a hip shot. – What does that mean? Is the hip shot coming in autumn, or what? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: That's it!]] Whoever is behind it – and this must be analysed – is basically not the colleague Großruck or the colleague Neudeck, but the Ministry of Finance, because the Minister of Finance is probably unable to carry out the sale of the 62 000 federal dwellings or the companies behind them and can not sell en bloc if he does not make up the WGG. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Aha! Quick checker!]] – Thank you for the compliment, I am happy to accept it from your mouth! We have already put € 10.2 million in consulting costs, we have not sold any company yet, but half of the money is already paid out. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Speedy Gonzalez!]] It is interesting that the Minister of Economic Affairs in the Committee says that he will not come from him to amend the WGG. The Minister of Finance states that he will not come from him, but the Minister of Economic Affairs will say – literally – in the Committee: Get information from the building speakers of the government parties. – This is a clear indication of an initiative that is likely to come in the form of a hip shot in autumn. That is to say, responsibility is shifted from the government to the building speakers in this case. They'll be allowed to run out of the soup. [[Abg. Großruck: They like to take responsibility! They're used to it!]] The government will say it didn't raise rents, they were the bad building speakers. In this sense, a good advice to Mr Neudeck: The next time you talk to the ÖVP about the housing law, you can see that there is no table in the room, because you will be moved over over it again!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14417	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Key to word reported. – You know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14462	My previous speaker, Mr Mag. Hoscher, has claimed that the debt in Carinthia had developed exorbitantly between 1989 and 1991. [[Abg. Eder: Right!]] - That's wrong. The most massive debt development in Carinthia occurred between 1991 and 1998 under the head of state Zernatto.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14520	The next speaker is Mrs Mikesch. The speaking time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14538	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Weinzinger – now she is back in the hall – I would have liked to say the following: I have been an entrepreneur for 17 years and have already made a lot of investment in my company, but I have to say honestly: What you have said today is that there are difficulties for women, I cannot see that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steibbl: We're not either!]] [[Abg. Gradwell: What do you say to Zernatto?]] I already have a lot of conversations and negotiations with banks behind me, but I really never had to realize that because I am a woman, I get worse access to the banks, to money or to others. I simply believe that the personality of the entrepreneur decides. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Mandak: No, that's not true!]] Above all, however, the figures and data of the company are crucial, because of which one eventually receives or does not receive money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say one more word to the labour market service: If one sees the comparison between Germany and Austria, it is noted that the AMS Austria employs 4 180 employees, thus providing care for 8 million Austrians; Germany employs 90 000 people for not even the tenfold population. The average duration in Austria is 120 days, in Germany 230 days. However, our Federal Government has set itself the goal of reducing the term of mediation to 90 days throughout Austria, and this has already been successfully implemented in some districts. – My home district of Melk is also part of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If, on the basis of this AMS comparison, we are facing black and blue labour and economic policies in Austria with red and green labour and economic policies in Germany, then we can only say: The comparison makes us sure!
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14629	The next speaker is Mr Glaser. The speaking time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14648	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Since in the last speeches of the debate there was a relatively large amount of talk about Vienna, I would like to deal with the counter-police, with the rural regions, and here in particular with the border regions in the north and east of our country. I think the situation is known to you all: There has been a demigration in these areas for decades now due to structural change, and there is a loss of jobs and thus a downward trend. Again and again, we have tried to counter this trend. The most well-known example of the failure of this counter-tax was the German Chancellor Kreisky, who promised in his first government declaration in 1970, to create a broad belt of prosperity along the dead border. We all know that he did not succeed and that even in the next 30 years SPÖ Chancellorship did not succeed, but that there was still a departure, even at the last census. In the meantime, the starting position of the situation has changed somewhat: The opening of the east has taken place, and with this there is the hope that something will turn to the better. However, I believe that important efforts must be made here in order to achieve this. This government has taken on these efforts in recent years and has also done so with the 2003 and 2004 budgets. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry, what happened?]] What you have failed in the last 30 years was the expansion of the infrastructure, especially the transport routes. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Grief: Give us an example!]] That is exactly what this Federal Government is now doing with the new transport concept. One will expand the road to the east, quite massively! It will also be tried after the actual accession of the Eastern countries, after the 1st century. In May, the competitiveness of our farmers and our businesses along these border regions will be ensured and increased by accompanying measures. There has already been a strengthening of the administrative level of the districts and the district headquarters. – They wanted to abolish them, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In this budget, we have provided and committed higher resources for the use of renewable energy sources. This will create jobs in these regions. In these budgets, we have also provided for the payment of the power and the work of our farmers so that they can continue to operate throughout the land and maintain the landscape. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, it should also be noted that it is hoped that the total decoupling of EU support will not come from production, as this would result in a massive disadvantage to these regions. What we need, of course, is impulses in these regions so that we can create sustainable jobs and thus increase competitiveness. [[Abg. Grade: In two years you will see that less has happened than ever before!]] There are all these approaches in the 2003 and 2004 budgets, and we will ensure sustainable jobs in these regions, increase competitiveness and thus create the prerequisite for these border regions to continue to be competitive after the accession of our neighbours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14741	The next speaker is Mrs Wegscheider. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14759	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! In today's debate on Chapter 63, I concentrate on an important point, namely the role of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country and how we can further develop the political framework. Over 206 000 companies create jobs for over 1.5 million people. According to the Austrian Institute of Commercial Research, these companies invest a total volume of €15 billion. The domestic SMEs are financed on average with 23 percent equity. The European comparison of equity ratios shows that the scope of university economic operators is lower than elsewhere, and it will not be easier for our entrepreneurs in the near future. In the context of the paralysing economic situation, the pressure on businesses in all sectors is increasing. The profitability and thus the viability of enterprises must be ensured. The Austrian People's Party is always the reliable contact point of the Austrian middle class. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This reliability is also reflected in the measures that this group of companies can be assigned to in the tax reform. The introduction of a preferential taxation of non-profit-making profits for individual companies and personal companies will promote the capital formation of enterprises. Since Austria still has a potential for improvement at the level of self-employed, business founders are to be supported. Measures such as guarantees or facilitating the transfer of businesses can help economic operators. I would like to give you an example from the practice: I know an entrepreneur who deals with culinary gifts and founded her business a few years ago in a small municipality in Upper Austria. She's been looking for her niche, risking and investing. Today, she employs more than 20 people in a structurally weak rural area. A great opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises in our country is export, and this has been shown by my example. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many Austrian exporters have our excellent reputation for the world, and I thank them. This means that the risks created by the companies must be eliminated by means of export promotions. The successful location and technology policy at the national level – I am from Upper Austria – helps to achieve the lowest unemployment rate in Germany with only 3.6 percent in May of this year. We should continue to pursue the oberösterreichische Success Model at the federal level.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14817	Mr Magist. — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on behalf Kogler. The watch is gladly set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14841	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, yes, I understand the whim, it is Friday – and otherwise things are not as rosy, at least not as rosy as Mr Drinkl presented them in the ‘FORMAT’. I've now read – I've also contributed to the upswing and got a “FORMAT” around €2.20 – and I really have to report because he just mis-quote all around. This can and should not be contradicted in an elevated parliamentary dispute. Mr. Drinkl, if you read about those you supposedly or actually tried to quote, you will find that, for example, Mr. Christian Konrad – not an unknown person in your ranks – will say that now, at last, other signals will have to be sent and that it will be “to boost domestic demand”. – It is therefore important to stimulate domestic demand. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's what we're doing by the tax reduction! But you don't understand!]] We discuss it all the time – so that we finally have a thread on the subject: The preferred parts of a greater tax reduction and tax reform would have been it! You refuse to do so, and this is clearly meant here. You shouldn't be so loose about it. The fact that you took Lacina into your speech has already surprised me, that's why I've been looking at it right now. Of course, he says the smooth opposite of what you at least wanted to announce here. [[Abg. Eder: Only insult!]] ‘Separation of tax and... Tax benefits... – especially for low incomes.” – That was exactly our proposal, you have now refused to do so in the debate, you have already refused to do so in the government negotiations. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's what we do!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: 14 500 € tax-free!]] The measure to exempt up to €14 500 is a segment measure. That's what we want. [[Abg. Scheibner: You voted against it!]] We are only saying that those who are not already paying a tax should also benefit, in the truest sense of the word, and thereby also trigger a corresponding increase in demand. [[Abg. Scheibner: Speak and vote against this!]] The summary in the “FORMAT” for this debate is – I quote literally –: “The one” – by you – “cut short man refuses consumption, now also say conservative bankers. Schusel and Grasser would have to create a positive economic climate at last.” – That’s it! “Have to create”, not “have already done” – we find ourselves there rather. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] And if you quote, please. Read, then quote correctly and then continue to discuss! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Listen!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Think!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14976	There are no more words available to me. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Damage! I'll report to you soon!]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2003-06-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00023_d7e15003	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 150/A to 154/A. Question No 525/J to 534/J has also been received. It is my request by the honourable Member Mag. Molterer, Dr. Cap, Herbert Scheibner, Karl Oellingervor, agreed to postpone the deliberations. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this proposal to give a sign on this point. – Mr Gusenbauer, you have decided? They shall comply with the request. – The request was therefore adopted unanimously. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Tuesday, 17. In June 2003, 9 a.m., with the following agenda: Bundesfinanzgesetze 2003 and 2004 together with investments, Chapter 60: Agriculture, forestry and water management, Chapter 61: Environment new, then Chapter 17: Health and women, then Chapter 11: Inside, then chapter 20: Externals. I wish everyone a beautiful Sunday! The sitting is closed.
