ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1278	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take your seats. According to § 3 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the last legislative period is responsible for opening the sitting and holding the Presidency until the election of the new President or the new President. I open the first and constituent session of the newly elected National Council of XXV. The legislative period we begin with the German anthem. [[The trumpet ensemble “The Art of Trumpet Vienna” on the gallery is staged by the Austrian Federal Anthem, which is performed by the gatherings.]] I very much welcome all the Members of the House, both those who have been elected to the National Council recently, and those who are now elected as newly elected Members at the beginning of their parliamentary work. With respect, I welcome our President-in-Office Dr Heinz Fischer, who is present at this meeting. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] [[President Dr. Heinz Fischer rises from his place and thanks with a bowing.]] The constituent session will be transferred to ORF 2 from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and to ORF III in full length. I would also point out that during today's National Council meeting a photographer will photograph on behalf of the Parliament's Directorate for the Homepage. He's the only one who can photograph in here if he's in the hall. [[10:03:13]] Meeting of the 2013/2014 ordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1343	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 18. According to Article 27(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act on XXV, the National Council of the Federal Republic of Germany on 27 October 2013. legislative period and at the same time as Article 28(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act at its ordinary meeting 2013/2014 for the 29. ==References====External links== On the basis of this resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, today's meeting was scheduled. [[10:03:42]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1367	I can also send the House the following letter from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. October 2013 Communication: 'Dear Madam President! I have the honour to inform myself that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 1 January 1988, is the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. At the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 1 October 2013, S210.010/2-BEV/13, GZ S210. In October 2013, the Federal Government decided to take note of the demission and dismissed the Federal Government and the State Secretary in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act of the Office. At the same time, under Article 71 of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Government has entrusted me and the remaining members of the Federal Government with the continuation of the administration and with the Presidency in the former Federal Government. In addition, on my proposal pursuant to Article 70(1) in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Government has, until the formation of a new Federal Government, the State Secretary Dr. Josef Ostermayer, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Mag. Andreas Schiederand Sebastian Kurz are appointed State Secretary and she is the responsible Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. Federal Ministers attached to support in the management and parliamentary representation. With the best greetings Werner Faymann’ According to § 3 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall, after consulting the President-in-Office, appoint the following four Members for the provisional provision of the business of the scribes: Harry Buchmayr, Angela Lueger, Jakob Auerund Wolfgang Zanger. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1438	With regard to the items obtained, I refer in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:05:27]] 1. Point I should like to draw attention to some of the points raised by the honourable
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1659	We go into the agenda and arrive at the 1st. Point: Fishing by Members. Writer Wolfgang Zanger will read the Angelobung formula; then the delegates will have to do the Angelobung with the words “I vow” through name call by the aforementioned writer – who will later be replaced by the writer Jakob Auerababschlodt. I should now like to ask the author, Mr Zanger, to read the formula for fishing and then start calling for the name. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1692	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” By calling for a name by the scribes, Mr Sanger and Mr Auer, the following Members will make the fishing observation with the words “I praise”: Alm Nikolaus, Magistrate; Amon Werner, MBA; Antoni Konrad; Aslan Aygül Berivan, Mag; Aubauer Gertrude, Mag.Use custom fonts; Auer Jakob; Bacher Walter; Bayr Petra, MA; Mulder Ruth, Mag.Use custom fonts; Belakovich-Jenewein Dagmar, Dr.; Berlakovich Nikolaus, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Bösch Reinhard Eugen, Dr.; Brosz Dieter, MSc; Brunner Christiane, Mag.Use custom fonts; Buchmayr Harry; Bures Doris; Cap Josef, Dr.; Darabos Norbert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Darmann Gernot, Mag.Use custom fonts; Deimek Gerhard, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Diesner-Wais Martina; Dietrich Waltraud, Ing.Use custom fonts; Doppler Rupert; impact Claudia; Ecker Cornelia; Eder-Lindner Astrid Monika, Dr.; El Habbassi Asdin, BA; Eßl Franz Leonhard; Faymann Werner; Fekter Maria Theresia, Mag. Dr.; Fichtinger Angela; Franz Marcus, Dr.; Fuchs Hubert, MMag. DDr.Use custom Gahr Hermann; Carmen gourds; Gerstl Wolfgang, Mag.Use custom fonts; Gessl-Ranftl Andrea; Glavischnig-Piesczek Eva, Dr.; Grillic Fritz; Great Werner, Ing. May.Use custom fonts; Grossmann Elisabeth, Mag.Use custom fonts; Gusenbauer hunter Marianne; Hable Rainer, Dr.; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Ing.Use custom fonts; Hafenecker Christian; Hagen Christoph; Haider Roman, Mag.Use custom fonts; Hammer Michael, Mag.Use custom fonts; Hanger Andreas, Mag.Use custom fonts; Haubner Peter; Hauser Gerald, Mag.Use custom fonts; Hechtl Johann; Heinisch-Hosek Gabriele; Heinzl Anton; Hell Johann; Sky builder Eva-Maria, BSc; Höbart Christian, Ing.; Hofer Norbert, Ing.Use custom fonts; Höfinger Johann; Holzinger Daniela, BA; Hübner Johannes, Dr.; dog torpher Rudolf; Jank Brigitte; Jannach Harald; Jarmer Helene, Mag.Use custom fonts; Jarolim Johannes, Dr.; Karl Beatrix, Mag. Dr.; Karlsböck Andreas, Dr. Kassinger Axel, MMMag. Dr.; Katzian Wolfgang; Keck Dietmar; Kickl Herbert; Kirchgatterer Franz; Kitzmüller Anneliese; Smart Gerald, Mag.Use custom fonts; Knes Wolfgang; Köchl Matthias; Kogler Werner, Mag.Use custom fonts; Königsberger-Ludwig Ulrike; Head Karlheinz; Korun Alev, Mag.Use custom fonts; Crist Hermann; Kucharovich Katharina; Kucher Philip; Kunasek Mario; Kuntzl Andrea, Mag.Use custom fonts; In short, Sebastian; Laust Christian; Lettenbichler Josef, Mag.Use custom fonts; Lichtenecker Ruperta, Dr.; Lintl Jessi, Dr.; Lipitsch Hermann; Loacker Gerald, Mag.Use custom fonts; Lopatka Reinhold, Dr.; Lueger Angela; Lugar Robert, Ing.Use custom fonts; Maurer Sigrid; Mayer Elmar; Meinl-Risinger Beate, Mag.Use custom fonts; Mikl- Leitner Johanna, Mag.Use custom fonts; Reinhold, Dr. Mitterlehner; Mlinar Angelika Rosa, Mag. Dr.; Mölzer Wendelin; Moser Gabriela, Dr.; Musical Joseph; Mückstein Eva, Dr.; Mühlberghuber Edith; Musiol Daniela, Mag.Use custom fonts; - Muttonen Christine, Mag.Use custom fonts; Rebaur Kathrin, Dr.; Neubauer Werner; Oberhauser Sabine, Dr., MAS; Upper Noster Gabriel; Ottenschlager Andreas; Pendl Otto; Pfurtscheller Elisabeth, Dipl.-Kffr.(FH); Pilz Peter, Dr.; Pirklhuber Wolfgang, Dipl.-Ing. Dr.; Plessl Rudolf; Pock Michael; Podgorschek Elmar; Prammer Barbara, Mag.Use custom fonts; Preiner Erwin; Prince Nicholas; Rädler Johann; Smoke John, Mag.Use custom fonts; smoke Walter; Riemer Joseph A.; Rosary Barbara; Rosary Walter, Dr.; Rossmann Bruno, Mag.Use custom fonts; Rudas Laura, Mag.Use custom fonts; Honey Birgit, Mag.Use custom fonts; Schellenbacher Thomas, Ing.Use custom fonts; Schenk Martina; Scherak Nikolaus, Mag.Use custom fonts; Arbitrator Andreas, Mag.Use custom fonts; Abrasive helmet Dorothea; Schmid Gerhard; Schmid Julian; Jewellery beater John; Schönegger Bernd, Mag.Use custom fonts; Schrangl Philipp, Mag.Use custom fonts; Schultes Hermann, Ing.Use custom fonts; Schwentner Judith, Mag.Use custom fonts; Sieber Norbert; Singer Johann; Spindelberger Erwin; Spindlegger Michael, Dr.; Stefan Harald, Mag.Use custom fonts; Steger Petra; Steinacker Michaela, Mag.Use custom fonts; Steinbichler Leopold; Steinhauser Albert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Steßl Sonja, Mag.Use custom fonts; Strache Heinz-Christian; Strasser Georg, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Strolz Matthias, Mag. Dr.; Stronach Frank; Tamandl Gabriele; Themessl Bernhard; Daughter Karlheinz, Dr.; By Harald, Dr.; Underrunner Maximilian, Mag.Use custom fonts; Vavrik Christoph, Mag.Use custom fonts; Vetter Georg, Dr.; Vilimsky Harald; Vogl Markus, Ing.Use custom fonts; Walser Harald, Dr. Wenninger Hannes; Willi Georg; Wimmer Rainer; Windbühler-Sushill Tanja; Winter Susanne, Dr.; tiny Angelika, Dr.; Wittmann Peter, Dr.; Woeinger August; Worm Gisela, Mag.Use custom fonts; Worm Peter; Yılmaz Nurten; Zakostelsky Andreas, Mag.Use custom fonts; vocalist Wolfgang; Zinggl Wolfgang, Mag. Dr.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2391	Ladies and gentlemen, the Angelobung is over. You have committed yourself with your vow to the law-reliance and conscientious exercise of your function. I wish you every good and best success for your responsible parliamentary work. [[10:15:10]] 2. Point Election of the President/President, Second President/Second President and Third President/Third President
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2425	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There are written constituencies, which I announce: The proposal for the President of the National Council is to honourable Member Mag. Barbara Prammer. On the election of the Second President, there is a motion for a resolution by Mr Karlheinz Kopf. For the election of the Third President, a motion for a resolution is tabled by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer. In agreement with the President-in-Office of the Council, I propose to hold a debate on this item on the agenda and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of it for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2494	According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a 15-minute block-time limit is proposed for this debate, with a maximum of two speakers per club. This is done according to the strength of the club. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also stand up for this to be a sign. – This too has been unanimously adopted. We are now going into the debate. Mr Klubobmann Mag is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Arbitrator. I'll set the clock up to 11 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2530	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Appreciated listeners on the gallery and in front of the televisions! ==References====External links== In September, the Austrians decided on the composition of the National Council. There were about 4.8 million Austrians who voted on the election day. A warm thanks to all those who took part in the elections for it. [[General condolences.]] One million people are unfortunately away from the urns, although they were eligible for election. This is a task for us, namely to make an exciting policy, to hold open discussions and to make courageous decisions for the future, in order to increase the participation in the next National Council elections. Many terms are currently being discussed in the media: new style, good style, willingness to reform, modern governance. No matter what it may be called, it is about finding together good decisions, the right answers to the challenges of the present and the future. Having a right to vote, freely elected parliaments, the full exercise of democracy, all this is not a matter of course, even in history. The right to vote in Austria has existed since 1907 – with the limitation: only for men; for women, for all Austrians for less than 100 years, namely since 1918. 80 years ago, 1933, democracy in our country was so weak and its enemies, the enemies of democracy, were so strong that Parliament could even be eliminated. Fortunately, democracy and Parliament are so strongly anchored today that such a thing is no longer imaginable. But it is also true in the present day that parliamentary democracy is not a matter of course. In 2012, there were 117 parliamentary democracies worldwide, which are almost 60 percent of all countries of the world. So 40 percent of the states do not have parliamentary democracy! To say one thing quite openly: Democracy and, in particular, parliamentarianism live on discourse, on different opinions, on diversity of ideas, on disputes in the positive sense. Parliamentaryism, however, also lives on compromises and cooperation. There is also diversity here in the House by the political groups – six in number – but also by each of the Members and each of the Members. There is also a great, colorful diversity in the Socialist Group, in my group. We have old and young Members. We have newly praised Members – more than a quarter of the representatives of our club are new here in the house – and those who have been serving as Members of the Republic and their citizens for decades. We have women and men in our group. At 38 percent, we have a women's rate that is close to what we expect. A little more would certainly be desirable – I say with regard to Gabi Heinisch-Hosek. There is a host worker's child with us, as well as representatives from the Austrian Alps. The Social Democratic Group consists of employees, entrepreneurs, freelancers, officials, students and workers. Members must – and this is very important – come from all areas of society and come from among them. To be a Member means to have the will to design, but also the courage to bear responsibility. Taking responsibility is often not an easy task, and a very difficult task is to participate in the search for the right answers for our society. However, to be a Member of Parliament means to communicate between the constituency and the House, if one wants to carry one's own constituency into the High House, but at the same time to carry the High House out into the constituency, into the communities and villages and cities of our country. On this occasion I would also like to say quite sincerely, namely: A thanks to those retired members of the National Council from all the political groups who have worked here in recent years and of whom I have worked long and well with many of them – in turn from all political groups. This is a special concern to me. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and greens.]] That is why I am concerned because it is precisely different parties and ideological differences that are an important point for democratic debate. Political parties – and this too must be said – have a central democratic function. We should be self-confident about this: Parties are necessary instruments to be able to live democracy! Without parties, there is no parliamentary democracy. But you have to say the same thing: Parties are not self-evident! The aim is to develop solutions for Austria and the people in our country and to decide here together. The ability to cooperate well is a prerequisite for democracy. Cooperation and compromise capacity – across the political groups – must have the objective of shaping Austria and bringing Austria forward. Parliamentary work in the past has shown exactly that: We have created many good regulations and laws through cooperation and cooperation. Of the 674 decisions in the last legislative period, about 80 percent were decisions with more parties than the government coalition. 40 percent of all decisions were even unanimous decisions. I would therefore like to stress this to the people who listen and ask themselves how democracy works: There is also a large area in our democracy, where we together, government and opposition parties, where all Members of this House share joint responsibility. My group, the SPÖ, is important to each other constructively. Here in Parliament, we must work together constructively – also with the opposition parties! – stress even more in the future and live even more. That's what I think is the new style! The fact is, however, that: In the next five years, we will have a lot to do to meet the challenges of time – at least those we already see today. These include: addressing the global economic crisis, promoting growth and job creation, improving distribution justice, enabling decent ageing and ensuring pensions, developing a modern education system that gives our young people more opportunities. These are all important points – as well as the role of Austria as an active partner in the international and European context. These are all the questions that are already on the table today. But we know from the past: Very often, the timing also brings new, additional challenges. An important decision for the next five years will be taken with the re-election of the National Council Presidency. A very, very important point! The SPÖ has nominated Barbara Prammer as a candidate for the First President – and I am very pleased to do so. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Barbara Prammer has many positive characteristics. She is an experienced parliamentarian, she is a fighter for parliamentarianism, she is internationally recognized and committed. Human rights are an important issue for them – as are women's rights! Barbara Prammer has also demonstrated in the past that she stands for the opening of Parliament. On the National Day a few days ago, more than 10,000 visitors used the “day of the open door” to deal with Parliament, the building, but also with parliamentarianism and democracy. With the “democracy workshop”, which Barbara Prammer has set up, the Hohe Haus is successfully opened to students. 58 000 visitors have visited this facility until now. This is a great success! Barbara Prammer, together with the former colleagues in the National Council Bureau, also stands for the professionalization of the House. By extending the legal, legislative and scientific services and by building up the budget service, Barbara Prammer also contributed to the crucial improvement of parliamentary work. And the most important thing is: Its Presidency is impartial and takes account of Parliament's reputation. And above all, Barbara Prammer's size stands as a politician and human being. Barbara Prammer will also be a careful President for Parliament in the new legislative period – I am sure of that. In this sense, dear Barbara: Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2659	Mr Spindelegger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2680	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office! Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, on the first day of this legislative period, after a vow, there is a third new Member of this National Council. I am particularly addressing the new Members who have certainly come to this plenary with great commitment, with a lot of enthusiasm, with great plans, in order to move something for Austria. And that must be a good start for all of us! – Finally, for everyone, it is about finding the best solutions in the legislation for Austria, ensuring good implementation and monitoring of Parliament’s duties. At the beginning of my speech today, I would also like to say: We from the Group of the Austrian People's Party would like to see this beginning in such a way that we are all trying to reach out to each other to negotiate good solutions and to achieve good results. That is the decisive thing for me in this legislative period! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler holds a board with the title ‘Agreement U Committee as a minority right. Signed by Cap & Head” as well as a copy of the said agreement.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We now have at the beginning the task of electing the Presidents of the House. As a political group of the Austrian People's Party, we have been a candidate for Karlheinz, who for many years as a parliamentarian has gained the experience necessary to have a presidency function in this House. He has performed many functions: Speaker functions, committee functions. And as a clubman, he has also held responsibility here for the Austrian People's Party for five years and always strives to find solutions also in the presidential solutions, also across its own party borders. I would therefore like to present him today as our candidates. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that if Karlheinz is elected by the House today, he will be a very good President, one who is cooperating with the others in trying to give this National Council the same validity – also in public! I would therefore ask you all to give him this confidence. I would also like to say on behalf of my group that we are going to vote for the SPÖ candidate, Barbara Prammer. The President of the National Council, to be re-appointed, has chosen its office as we expect it from a President. And I know that she has quite difficult days behind her, not only in this office, but also personally. I would not only like to tell her that we will vote for her, but also wish her all the best personally – with my whole heart and on behalf of my group! [[General condolences.]] I would also like to say that we are going to vote for the candidates of the Group of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, Mr Hofer. It has been nominated by FPÖ as the third strongest group. Mr Hofer has been a parliamentarian over the years, and we would also like to have confidence in him as President in this House to exercise his role as we expect it to be. We will therefore support him. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In this context, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words about how we expect the Presidency to be in the National Council. I believe that we must all learn from where there may have been shadow pages – shadow pages not only in the presidency, but also in the matter of style in this House. I have heard a lot of criticism from citizens – and you all, too – about the fact that debates are being held in the National Council, in which not the content discussion is in the foreground, but the personal animosity, instigation, perhaps there and there also an abuse in the choice of words. I believe that we do not actually need this, but rather that we should focus on the content of the discussion, quite hard the to criticize one or the other, but do not let us be driven so far as to insult, disdain, or expose the other with personal neglects. I think it would also be the day today that we all find a basic consensus about it and that the three presidents are the ones who watch with strong hands that the style in this House is the right one and does not slip away. I wish that and hope that this will happen in practice. [[I would like to congratulate Mr Moser and Mr Strolz on his work in ÖVP, Mr SPÖ and Mr FPÖ.]] I would like to add one more point when it comes to finding the right cooperation: As the chairman of the Austrian People's Party, I will try to keep in touch with all the leaders of the other parties on a regular basis, also to talk about what might separate us, but in particular about what connects us – and these are probably the right answers to the challenges of our time, to the big questions that are at the heart of Austria's future. It is not only necessary to find a majority in this House, but it is also necessary to discuss the right recipes and enter into a constructive dialogue with each other. I hope that this will also be answered by all the political groups in this House, that in this way we will deal with what will really move us in the future: how we get to appropriate employment, how we can create growth for Austria and support it through the right framework in politics, and how we can find a consensus in foreign and European policy, which is ultimately about the presentation of our whole country. I would like to offer you today from this point of view to try to find the solutions that are right for Austria across party borders. I hope that we can succeed in putting some sign in the interest of Austria at the beginning of a new legislative period. In any case, I will try this and hope that you will also be ready to conduct this dialogue openly and regularly. So I wish all of us in today's debate, today, at the beginning of a legislative period a good start, which we all need in the interests of the population, because ultimately no one understands when the debate is at the centre, but everyone in this country wants the solution to be at the centre. And that's why I'm looking for you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2795	Mr Klubobmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2817	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the TV screens! I am very pleased, in the context of the constituent session and at the beginning of the XXV. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. There are also many well-known faces that you know from the past period – and I wish all of us a very good and successful work for our homeland Austria! I would also like, above all, to have a respectful relationship with each other, because I believe that one important thing in democracy is that we respect democratic electoral results and also maintain that exclusion in the Democracy towards democratic dissidents has lost nothing! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity to comment briefly from this pult with thanks and with joy, but also with humility, on the results of the election, and thank you, with which we have been strengthened to 40 Members by 34 Members of the Liberal Group in the last legislative period. Of course, with this strengthening, we also have a great responsibility to carry on a lot in this House for our home country and for the people of our country. ==References== September 2013 has contributed to the remixing of the cards of democracy policy, and many Austrians are now waiting for how the government negotiations will continue and what results will come to an end. In any event, the fact is that these negotiations for a new Federal Government cannot be a reason and no excuse to go to work immediately. And I say quite consciously: There is much to be done before a government is formed. If one considers, for example, parliamentarianism in recent years, it is unfortunately necessary to note God's criticism that there has been a standstill in many areas. And I say quite consciously: The minority right for committee of inquiry would be something that should be safeguarded jointly in this House before government is formed. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Greens as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler holds the table again with the title ‘Agreement U Committee as a minority law. Signed by Cap & Head” as well as a copy of the said agreement.]] In this context, there is a majority of the proposal adopted, which was decided by the SPÖ Klubobmann other than the Cap department during the previous legislative period, but also by the Clubobmann out of office, and also by other political groups, and should therefore be implemented. However, we are still at our disposal when it comes to ensuring a two-thirds majority of our country's privilege reduction. The privileges of the National Bank, but also the Old-Political Pensions and much more are to be addressed. Let us take this opportunity to get to work as soon as possible before a new government has come together! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also note that the ORF must not be a ball of a coming government, where one tries to put the ORF as a state, as a public-law station even more under the government's power. I also note that direct democracy is a will of the Austrian population, which we should finally make legally binding. So there's a lot to do. Of course, I would also like to take my first speech in the new legislative period to appeal to all the parties represented in the National Council, to jointly ensure that Parliamentaryism is strengthened and re-activated in many areas and to fulfil new lives. Although there are many serious differences between the various political groups, some of which often appear to be unbridgeable, we should not forget that we have been elected by people for a reason of taking responsibility, namely that our country of origin, the Republic of Austria, and the people in that country, should be able to make a positive contribution. to be serious about the concerns and needs of people and also to alleviate social policy in many areas and to relieve performance providers. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] Our credo should be that first and foremost the co-existence is lived and sought, and not the opposite, even if, of course, it is clear from the nature of the matter that, due to the very different positions of principle, this cannot always be possible there and there. At least the attempt should be made, however, to avoid discrepancies in all differences. I believe that this is a very important point, where in the past some sort of thing has gone wrong. Of course, there will be – and we don't have to think about it – emotional debates in different positions, including those in parliamentarianism, and, of course, there and there the proverbial cunts will fly, including that, but it should not be going and going, but rather remain the exception. Only together can we deal with the scepticism and distrust of the population vis-à-vis parliamentary democracy accordingly. I also say: Together we should be aware that everyone here in the house has to make his contribution, to lead the image back in a positive direction and not only to manage it, but also to shape it as people expect. This is the task of the parliamentarians: ultimately to live responsibility as well. As usual, we are also considering the election of the President of the National Council, the Second and Third Presidents of the Councils, or the Third President, and it is also a use and democratic tradition that corresponds to the democratic election outcome, where the citizen - and the right goes from the people - has spoken, the strongest group, the second strongest and third strongest group have the right of nomination: the strongest group for the Presidents of the Council, the second strongest group for the Second President and the third strongest group for the Third President. This is a right of nomination that corresponds to good democratic tradition. In the past, we liberals have always adhered to this democratic policy process and will do so this time. These are democratic, parliamentary practices, which are also a great asset, on which we do not scramble. That is why we will, of course, choose the candidates proposed by the SPÖ, but also by the ÖVP, in all the differences that exist in content there or there. Madam President, there are, of course, differences in content between you and me, my group and your group, but it is important that we deal respectfully with each other and that we also deal with each other at an eye level and do not interfere with all the differences in tone. That's what we want to live. It is necessary to fulfil the constitutional conditions of three Presidents so that this work can be ensured here in the House, in Parliament. We respect democratic electoral results, and we want to live and ensure this correct and respectful handling. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Wöger.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For the office of the Third President, we liberals have our National Council member Ing. Norbert Hofer suggested, which is well known to you. He has been a member of the National Council since 2006 and is a committed, competent material politician, who is also recognised across the party borders. He is involved in many topics, especially in the field of care and disability, but also in the environmental field, its strengths and interests lie. As a third president, he also wants to bring these areas to life more fully. Norbert Hofer, is a fair, reliable and sensible person who, as the third President of the National Council, I can promise you, will ensure that you can give him the confidence for good reason, because he will deal with it very responsibly. Finally, I say: I wish all of us a successful work for our home country Austria, but above all for the people in our home country Austria, who expect us, as I have said, to stress this once more, to take their social needs, concerns, fears seriously, and put them there in order to improve something specifically, quickly, to relieve people of being side by side. This is our task, which we will also fulfil.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2956	Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2977	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear guests! Dear relatives! “The culture of parliamentary democracy is less reflected in the fact that, at the end of the day, the majority decide but that minorities have their own legal claims, which are neither subject to approval nor approval by the respective majority.” From whom – from which opposition politician, would you think – does this quote come? - Van der Bellen maybe? Strache? Glavish, in the past? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] One can hardly imagine this from an Austrian conservative politician, but it was actually a conservative politician who said that, the Bundestag President Norbert Lammert, CDU, just a week ago in Germany. He started a democratic debate there, in view of the fact that a large coalition of 80 percent of seats has to consider how it will deal with the minority that has only 20 percent of its seats in the future, where 25 percent are necessary to bring complaints to the Constitutional Court or to set up investigation committees on control issues. I am telling you this because this is such a different access to parliamentarianism than it is in Austria. In Austria we have only one significant difference: In Austria, the large coalition together has not more than 80 percent of its seats, but significantly less, so a discussion on the strengthening of minority rights in Parliament would be absolutely appropriate. I haven't heard much about this today. [[Congratulations with the Greens, representatives of Team Stronach and NEOS-LIF as well as the Abg. Kickl.]] SPÖ and ÖVP have lost massive confidence in the population ten years ago, 2002, it was 80 percent, now it is 52 percent of Parliament's seats. I think the causes are quite clear, we have heard them all again and again in the election campaign of many citizens: lack of reform power; also the impression that the will to reform has failed; that the mutual blocking was often more important than to achieve success together; the feeling, everything is divided, Proporz. Even now, there are sounds in this direction again, when you look at what is currently being heard from the ORF, from public-law broadcasting. As I am afraid, a division of power between red and black is planned again from the Director-General to the last pot plant – and that must be an end! Many people have mentioned two words in this election campaign, which they no longer want: They don't want to stop, and they don't want corruption. Austria is no longer just red/black! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS-LIF as well as the Abg. Ing. Dietrich.]] Austria needs a new political culture. Austria needs much more transparency, much more control, much more courage to change and a very different relationship, especially from the rulers to the population, namely, a relationship at an eye level and not absolution. Freedom of information instead of official secrecy, glass state instead of glass citizens! SPÖ and ÖVP have now become known several times for a “new political style”. This new political style includes strengthening Parliament, strengthening the control and strengthening the rights of individual Members, and, above all, strengthening the minority. This Parliament deserves to be something different than the government's extended workbench! That is why we should be much more self-confidence, not only as an opposition, but also as the representatives of the government groups. [[Congratulations with the Greens and MEPs from NEOS-LIF.]] At this point a welcome to the new Member! It is now a third of the National Council, and I would like to make an appeal to you, who are newly elected: If young people are led by Parliament when school classes are run, when young people from the democracy workshop are exploring here in Parliament how laws come about, then they are first and foremost heard of three tasks of the Members. This is the advice and decision of laws, which is the information of the population, and that is the control of the government and the administration. This is not only the task of the members of the opposition, but also of all the Members of this House. In this sense also appeals to you, as new representatives of the government parties: Help us control the administration and the government! Control increases the quality of decisions, control leads to more transparency, and control prevents tax money destruction! That's our job! [[Congratulations with the Greens and with representatives of FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS-LIF.]] And to the government which is not yet under negotiation, I would like to say the following: Put your finger away from parliamentary control! It must never happen again that investigation work is prevented, turned off, investigation committees are turned off! The right of inquiry, the establishment of an investigation committee must finally become minority law! [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS-LIF.]] We are therefore in favour of the election of the Presidents, the Bureau of this House: It's a free choice. I can say in advance, ladies and gentlemen, my group, that Barbara Prammer will provide full support as an official and hopefully new President. We have repeatedly needed discussion in detail, but it has always been on the right side on the crucial issues, namely on the side of Parliament and on the side of the minority and also on the side of control. Now is my question to the candidate proposed by the ÖVP, namely to Karlheinz Head Which side do you plan to stand on? On the side of the rights of all Members? Will you follow the example of Germany in launching a discussion process here, how we can strengthen minority rights, how we can strengthen control? Or will you continue what you have done in your role as a clubman? And I have to say it: We have an advance of distrust in this respect. How can we deal with this when we agree with a clubman twice, with written agreements on the whole of the reform package, and then a part of it does not comply with this signature? And if a head, a cap – now I am already messing it up again – if Cap were nominated as a presidential candidate, I would ask exactly the same question. [[Rejoicing]] It's about a certain level of liability, handshake quality. Which side will you stand on? [[Abg. May. Kogler holds the table again with the title ‘Agreement U Committee as a minority law. Signed by Cap & Head” as well as a copy of the said agreement.]] The first agreement was signed in the summer of 2009 – I was just in a baby break, two months. My son Sebastian will be five years old next summer. So either we go a completely new way here, or my group will not vote for you, because this basic scepticism is simply there, you can't just wipe it away now. And I would also have expected that on this issue of control rights one would say something more clearly than that control is important. So: We ask here for a guarantee that this will be different in the future; that you will carry out this radical change of roles by a clubman, who was also involved in not letting the committee of inquiry work to the end, to a president of the entire National Council and also of the minorities in this House. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Vavrik.]] You can now argue about usancen. We see it as a free choice in this house. As far as FPÖ's candidates are concerned, we also have a scepticism of content, which I say openly, in particular as regards our experience in the field of legal, asylum and labour market programmes. We need a new culture in many areas, and we must solve this question of control as a basic prerequisite for substantive reforms. I would like to once again cordially invite all of you from the government parties that until the beginning of the Christmas holidays this question has finally been resolved. We need so many reforms, it is so much to do that I do not want this question to continue to burden us – so I hope you will be open. The area, I believe, where there has by far been the most dissatisfaction in the population was education, and therefore I would like to say two more sentences. That was by far the largest area where the population felt out of this blockade is nothing more possible. And the election result is certainly a signal to make it different in this area. That is why we have a proposal: Let us turn education policy into a coalition-free area, and give Parliament the opportunity to actually work out a reform by the summer of next year and then in secret vote to vote without force of clubs! Give us the opportunity to try this once! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS-LIF.]] We need a radical, complete rethinking here. And I think that if we set ourselves up with the aim of ensuring the best possible support for each individual child, we may find ourselves able to reach a compromise by the summer. Education out of the party contest! – This is my second offer today. A final point: We Greens see us as the environmental conscience of this country. I would also like to warn you of one thing, including in the government negotiations: If you really plan to tear down environmental policy, this important future area – that is, all the international projects that would have to be driven forward with great commitment by Austria, climate protection as an example – then you will feel our most bitter resistance. We are the environmental conscience of the National Council, and we want this area to play an important role in the government negotiations as well. [[Abg. Heinzl: That was once!]] In this sense: good cooperation!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3080	Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3101	Madam President. Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Honourable Members, guests to the galleries, representatives of the media! It was a great honor for me to swear before, to serve the Republic of Austria and the Austrian people. This is not only a great honor, but I also see this as a very great responsibility, especially if you look at the participation. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to help turn politics back into a positive concept, and we will only succeed if we focus on the best solutions and work together. I therefore give my hands to all those who have been legitimated by the Austrian people by the election – no matter what party – and wish us good and constructive cooperation. I sincerely wish Madam President Prammer the very best for her health. Of course, we will also support the election proposal of the three Presidents. I myself lived in Canada for twelve years, near Toronto. There people from over 100 nations live together peacefully. They feel like Canadians, no matter where they come from, and they are infinitely proud of their land. I didn't actually meet a Canadian who didn't tell me within the first hour of our conversation: Canada is the largest country in the world! Now I am back in Austria, in my beloved home, and sometimes I wonder: Where's our pride? Where's our world openness? And do we also say from the bottom of our heart that we live in the best country in the world? I am not sure, but I would like to make a contribution to the fact that we can all be proud of our beautiful country and that we can be a model for the whole world where everyone gets a fair chance. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and ÖVP as well as the Abg. May. Arbitrator.]] Justice, ladies and gentlemen, however, cannot be achieved through a reduction in level and requirements. This applies to all areas of life, but especially to education. I am not for equilibrium and centralism: neither from Vienna nor from Brussels. I am in favour of celebrating diversity and colorfulness, just as we people are diverse and colorful. A peaceful togetherness and co-existence, characterized by competition, entrepreneurship, self-reliance and a great social heart for the weak in our society – that is the mandate of the Stronach team. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] At this point, I would like to thank Frank Stronachscher for helping us put our foot in the door. He likes it in an unconventional way. But I tell you, ladies and gentlemen: The motive was through and through honesty. Thank you, Frank! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would also like to thank my father at this point, who, in my early years, has excited me about politics and awakened my interest in going abroad. He's at the gallery today, and I'm very happy. We in the Stronach team are not professional politicians. We are people with a fresh look at politics, with new ideas, and we have concrete demands. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] We want to use a slim and efficient administration system, because there are too many laws that complicate citizens' lives. The Roman historian Tacitus has said that the more corrupt a state is, the more laws he needs – and we have as many laws as never before, and unfortunately there is as much mismanagement as never before. There is also a need to rethink what is going on in dealing with tax money. We need more self-responsibility to stop thinking about the state. Thomas Jefferson, the main author of the American Declaration of Independence and great thinkers of freedom, said: “I predict future happiness for Americans if they can prevent the government from washing the laboratories of the people under the fun of handling care of them!” – How right he has! We have become a lot of state- and system-believers. It should be reversed: The system should serve us citizens, not we must serve the system. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Especially in Europe, more and more responsibility is being shifted towards the state, and we have become dependent on a supplier state and have forgotten one thing: The state can't give us anything he didn't take us before. What's going on in Europe: What became of the principle of subsidiarity? Of course, we welcome the internal market and the openness of borders, but many legislative powers should again be entrusted to national parliaments. If necessary, they can also deal with light bulbs. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] But I do not think we should insult the great European idea of politicians and bureaucrats through the centralist planning economy and regulatory will. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] We have a lot of work ahead of us to make Austria competitive again and to ensure economic growth. However, the economy can only grow if we become more business-friendly and even if there are more children in Austria again. We therefore also call for Austria to become more child- and mother-friendly. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] Austria is to become a world premiere: with the highest innovation power, the best universities, the best health system, the best athletes and the highest quality of life. My vision for Austria: I want to make the Austrian dream out of American Dream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3245	I call Mr Klubobmann. Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3266	Madam President. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Dear guests! Dear viewers on the TV devices! We are there, we NEOS, the New Austria and Liberal Forum, and we are very pleased about this. [[Congratulation with NEOS-LIF.]] Not everyone is happy with us, but that can still be. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I have made one point, namely that in every speech I will hold here in the House, I would like to make a word of appreciation. This is the custom of government members in Brazil. I think that this beautiful custom could also be introduced into Austria. I would therefore like to thank the other groups today; the first talks were very open and marked by kindness. I would also like to thank Parliament's management and the employees of this House for the very good service, which is especially important for us New, because there is a lot to learn for us. That the club members of two parties have to sit in the second row, we find it inappropriate, I think it is the same with the Stronach team as with us, but I think the voters will make a small correction next time. Faced with twelve places, I find this a little bit small. [[Congratulation with NEOS-LIF.]] I'd like to introduce NEOS to you a little bit. We are a new being for many of you. We NEOS have given us a common understanding of politics, already in February 2012 when we started with 40 people, at our first clause, we are now 7 500 people bringing this movement forward, and this is: Politics is the place where we figure out how to live together, the place where we figure out how to do with each other. This sounds a bit banal for the first time, but this place will always need it, even in the forest district or in other less densely populated areas in Austria, where there may be more rabbits than people. [[Calls.]] – I love the forest area, but you have to do something everywhere, and we have to figure out how to do with each other. I was in a school in Vorarlberg in spring. [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: That was not a good offer!]] - If you listen to me, I'll talk. – I have discussed politics with a hundred young people in school, about this place where we make up how we do with each other. And I asked her before we got into the discussion: What happens to you when you think about politics? What do you think? What are your associations? What, do you think, does a hundred young people come to mind when they think of politics? – Well, sometimes not, can still be. – They get into the head, and those were the top 3 designations: first: Corruption, second: there's nothing going on, standstill and third: Lies. Imagine, you are the boss/chefin of a company and you ask your employees or customers: What do you think of our company? And they say: Corruption, standstill, lies! – Do you think that would be a golden future? There we are, as I believe, in duty as a High House, as a Member of Parliament, 183 times! Of course, we are such a thing as cultural promoters also for politics. We'll skip that too. And we're also something like clockers, and it's gonna be up to us. And here, as NEOS, I promise that we will put the joint before the end of the separation. We will put the constructive before the destructive and the positive before the negative. In this sense, we also see the right to the three posts of the Presidents of the National Council with the three strongest political groups and will fully support them in two cases and in one case in a majority. We will also be looking for common ground here in Parliament. You know – and I just want to take two priorities – that education is particularly important to us. I have a dream, we NEOS have a dream, and that is: Every child who has wings. Everyone! [[The speaker spreads his hands.]] [[Congratulation with NEOS-LIF.]] Every child who lifts wings! I know, Mrs Minister, you have tried, but this House has also been out of here in recent years, we are not doing well enough. Of the 15-year-olds, over a quarter cannot read meaningfully. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to meet the 15-year-olds of Austria, I would have to cut off Mr Hofer next to you and say: [[The speaker draws an imaginary line through the plenary session]] You've caught it, you can't read at the age of 15! Each one of you who has children himself, a daughter, a son, or who has a father child and thinks about the fact that this child cannot read at the age of 15 will find: There's just tension! And if I draw the line next to Karlheinz Kopf, then a fifth will remain, which at the age of 15 cannot count properly. And there's just tension! Therefore: We need to change something about this! I think the proposal by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek is very good: non-coalition space. And I also advise you, Madam President Prammer – you are a fan of the Enquete Commission, which has never really come into the world in Austria –: If we make this Parliament a genuine working parliament, we strengthen parliamentarianism, we drive back the party apparatus! Today we will submit a request for a reduction in party funding. We want to lead this house to liveliness, especially in the educational field: non-coalition space. Let us make an Enquete Commission, a national dialogue and then also a big throw for a real leap forward in education. This is our announcement for which we are here today and for the next five years. Another issue that is very important to us: At this hour, the Pensions Commission will present its findings on the future of pensions in Austria. And this is in blatant contradiction to so many promises in the election campaign: The pensions are safe, don't worry, there are no problems! This statement is no longer sustainable after the pension commission has been found three weeks after the end of the election campaign. And that's why I'm also proposing: If we have a wide-ranging dialogue, we will also use a survey committee on pensions! Let us look at the way the others solved it, as the Sweden did! Even the Italians have found clearer and more groundbreaking solutions on this issue than Austria. I think we as the High House are also in the duty to come here to real change. We have many other topics that concern us. Today we will also make a request on the subject of freedom of information, glass state rather than glass citizens. That too is a concern for us to give air to people to breathe. The tax rate must be reduced. That two young people, a couple, can't even live up to the dream of a home today, is not for packing. We don't care, we have to do something. We should leave them more in the wallet. These and all the other topics that we have developed in 150 000 hours of volunteer work with thousands of people, we want to move forward here in this House, we want to lead to solutions. I know it won't be a simple undertaking. We have already learned something in the first days – and do not give us an illusion either, but we will fight like the lions and we will always be looking for cooperation here. I think it's going to be five exciting years. It has come to this Parliament on this election day. I look forward to these five years, I am looking forward to good cooperation with all the political groups in the interests of the Res publica, the public, in the service of the Republic in which we all stand. See you soon!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3376	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3397	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to correct the picture a little, because I believe that the last five years have been very good for this country, because we have worked together here in this House – whether it be on the Government Bank or the Members who have worked together for five years here – to try very hard to get us through this economic and financial crisis, in all competition with all the brilliances, but always with respect, so that we can say today: It did not work very well, but most of the time, the expectation of the citizens was largely fulfilled! Now there have been elections, and this House, this Parliament has become richer to make groups and parties richer. Six parties have joined, represented by 183, in part – a third – we have already heard today – new colleagues. I would like to stress once again that many, many legislative decisions have been taken unanimously and the rest have been taken by the majority. It is these provisions that we are seeing in the next five years, namely the personal provision, as a group, to come here, but also the social policy provision, as we want to look together into the future. For precisely this expectation, which has been fulfilled for the most part over the past five years, would I believe, will be restored, will affect us all. There's already the question: Do you talk about coalition-free rooms or not? I believe that we are entitled to make decisions here, to make majority decisions. That is why my group is less enthusiastic about the idea of non-coalition areas, because I believe that we can make decisions so quickly if we, the Members of this House, can determine how to develop laws. This too is about respect, yes, it is about tolerance, but I do not want us to wait too long for major reforms. It is also important, in my opinion, to stress that the social challenges of the next five years will be very great in all of us and that we, which we come from all parts of Austria, will be from social and There are different groups in the profession, and the population can best be represented here. In this very variety, I believe, it is important that decisions be taken here, if possible, unanimously, if not unanimously, at least by majority. The great challenges of the future will be how we deal with the smallest in our society in the future – the way has gone, the way has been a good one – as we can bring about further changes here, together in this House, and how we can support the working population in such a way that jobs are guaranteed in the future that no one has to be afraid that he will lose his job because we are making impossible demands, for example on day-to-day working models or whatever. People must feel that their work they do is a good work, that good work is needed, that of skilled workers or also of people who have studied. Everyone in this country is asked to make their own contribution and not only to secure the economic location of Austria, but also to allow us in this Europe in which we are in which we have recently earned ourselves the place that we want to earn, but also in the future. It is also important – and this has already been said today – how respectful and worthy we are dealing with the older generation, and of course also to deal with how we can ensure that people already in retirement are also insured in this retirement, and to see how we can also ensure for the future that care and care for the older generation – very big questions! – are also secure. So it is important, I believe, that many of the Members are again present in this House, although unfortunately it is too few again. It's almost 30 percent in total. I am of the opinion that women's policy is always social policy and that the decisions of women – we represent half of the population – must be reflected here in this House. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, I would like to say: We welcome the candidate of the Second and Third NR President and, of course, support our National Council President, because this House has become very open through Barbara Prammer, and many young people and young people have experienced how democracy is being lived here. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3454	Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3476	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office! Madam President. Government members! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There are Members here who have moved into this House for the first time and who are happy about it. In contrast, Mr Cap and I have been in this house for over 30 years. I congratulate all those who have been re-elected, especially those who have been re-elected. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I am not speaking because I have been a member of this Parliament for more than 30 years, but because I have had some experience at this time, which I think very much after three decades. Our country has changed dramatically in the three decades. Just a few words: EU accession, the Iron Curtain has fallen, there have been many changes worldwide and European political, including in Austria. Despite these changes, despite many economic difficulties, this country, this Austria, is well in place, despite a crisis. It has been dealt with to an extent as some countries in Europe would wish. We should also be very clear about this! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The political landscape has also changed: In 1983 a three-party parliament, SPÖ and ÖVP had 171 of 183 mandates. It could be said that Austria was much less pluralistic, less democratic at the time, and had more shady structures. Today, there are six parties. This shows that a lot has also been broken up in the voter market if you can say so. The rigidity is much lower. Nevertheless: In the last election I also met many citizens who told me they were frustrated. Yes, it is also about frustration to the party itself, especially to the political establishment as a whole. Why do I mention that? – It is too simple and too cheap if we put the blame on this frustration exclusively to the government. It is all about us, including the Austrian Parliament. The whole political force must strive to deal seriously with people's changed attitudes towards politics. The expectation is quite different today than in 1983. We also need another, a more open way of dealing with each other in Parliament, respect for the opinion of the dissident, for the minority, but also for the majority opinion, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Strolz, you are perfectly right, the work base in Parliament is in need of renovation, which is undisputed. If I compare what opportunities and opportunities a German Bundestag member has, I have to say: We are still living there in pre-flooding times, ladies and gentlemen. There's something to change about that! [[General condolences.]] But it is also a question of culture in the debate, of an appropriate choice of words. Parliament is and should be the place of hard political debate, quite certainly, but Parliament is not a centre of reference, and we are not the judges. That is what I mean by a very specific colleague in this House. Ladies and gentlemen! Dissidents are not enemies, not even perpetrators, because words can also hurt, and I do not consider giving you rules of conduct. I also do not have the authority to formulate these thoughts as a call for all of us, but I may perhaps express them as personal wishes. As chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to express another wish, ladies and gentlemen. Government negotiations are currently under way. One negotiate, the other accompany this process as a political opposition. I have a great wish, a request to all sides: Please note that everything we put forward here, what we demand, what is formulated in concrete projects, must also be put in place in the context of the budgetary possibilities of the next years. I am thinking, above all, of sustainability. It will not be possible to give us the benefits and to present the bill to the grandchildren, but we will have the right balance to find and provide appropriate investment incentives, appropriate impulses, for employment opportunities. That's where I include all the areas: Trade, trade, industry and agriculture. In the same way, we should know and be proud that in Austria we have a host of excellent professionals, around Austria many other countries are also quite envied. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by calling for the Bureau to vote and to support it. Barbara Prammer will receive our support, as will Mr Hofer – of course! – which I have met as an excellent and socio-political parliamentarian. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support our candidates for the second President's office, Karlheinz Kopf. He is an enthusiastic and experienced parliamentarian. He has been very intensive in dealing with parliamentaryism in the last decade. Mrs Glawischnig, you know very well that Karlheinz's head is not that this signed agreement has not yet been complied with. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not true!]] I think it's a bad style – let me tell you that, and I don't want to be instructive! – that before a new task is carried out, someone is already distrusted per futuro. Karlheinz didn't deserve this! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] We have always chosen your candidate, without pre-condition. [[Abg. Brosz: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's a joke!]] – Mr Brosz, you should not call “ha, ha!” here. The editor at midnight has told you what you are doing is smooth blackmail, and you should remember it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the crucial question will be whether we will succeed in finding the dialogue with each other through reasonable talks despite all contradictions. [[Abg. Brosz: You've blocked!]] We are called upon to do this because the citizens of Austria, the Austrians, will not in future ask us who made the better proposal, but they will see if we have shared something positive for this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3600	Next, Mr Kickl. I am setting you up – as there were problems with the clock before – the entire remaining time of your group's speech of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3622	Mr President! Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In debates such as today at the beginning of a legislative period, there are recurring patterns and recurring content. You might also be able to speak of rhetorical use without meaning it in any devaluable sense. However, I am not talking about the recurring scepticism of the Greens, which I would like to address briefly at the beginning, ladies and gentlemen. You, Mrs Glavischnig, and your colleagues, I just wish that this scepticism, which you sometimes apply in an almost penetrating and boundless way to everyone else, should also be skeptical of your own scepticism, for otherwise it will remain incomplete, incomplete and, in fact, embarrassing. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] But what I meant is quite different things. In today's debate – as was the case in the past in debates at the beginning of a legislative period – it is always the case that Parliament as a legislative body has a very special value in the structure of the democratic institutions of a state. It's going to be stretched out, and that's good. It also always sounds the special humility before the vote of the voters and voters, who have made sure that we are in this composition today. - That's a good thing, too. It is also always the case in these debates that we want to seek consensus, and that we want to talk about separation, without losing our own positions. – That’s a good thing too! It is also to be heard one time or another – even from the mouth of government politicians or soon-renewal politicians – that the value of the opposition in this House is also appreciated and that opposition work is an essential part of work in a democracy. Then there is philosophy, ladies and gentlemen, how the majority is dealing with the minority, and some have in the past even raised the answer to this question – I have written it down – very crucial moment of democratic quality. – Mr Cap, you can feel positive and you can accept the praise, even if it is not from your own group, but this time from another. You're right about what you said. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, as much as I can agree with all these things, I must add a very essential aspect. I would like to do so with the words of the great philosopher Hegel, whom I very much appreciate. Hegel wrote: “The truth of the intention is only the deed itself. ” It is precisely about these acts and precisely about this truth that will be the subject of the next legislative period. The question will be whether the value you repeatedly express to the opposition on the part of the government parties will also find its downfall in valuable control mechanisms, and the redemption of your promises in this regard is excessive, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These actions will also concern whether Parliament really understands itself as part of a system based on a division of powers, or whether Government parties to this Parliament will again be used as extended workbench for the enforcement of their interests. It will be a question of whether humility towards the Sovereign, who has so often been the subject, is enough to enable us, as mandates in this House, to use, in addition to representative democracy, direct democracy to support, complement and strengthen it – and not to undermine and undermine it, as falsely claimed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – You know that the true power is in the process of allowing, and not in the prevention, Mr Faymann. It will also be a question of whether we have the power here in Parliament to defend the Austrian constitution, our sovereignty, freedom and our self-determination against those presumptions – consciously and consistently! – which often come from Europe under very beautiful name. That's what Hegel said: The truth of the intention is the deed! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] We in the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party are committed to this. We want to take this proof of truth. This will require a lot of courage, but I think we have been praised here to express this courage in our political work. Our clubman has already said that we naturally support the candidate and the candidates of the other political groups. I would also, of course, ask you to express my confidence to our candidate Norbert Hofer. Ladies and gentlemen, Norbert Hofer will lead his office in the knowledge that freedom and responsibility are inseparably linked and that only in this combination is a high value. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: “Freedom is the insight into the need!” – Hegel too!]] Mr Hofer will carry out his duties with the great social heart, which he has often demonstrated enough with his work in the past here in the House. And he will lead his office – Mr Pirklhuber, that is now for you – also with the necessary ground liability and with the soil that each of us here is very good at, even if we are one of the so-called elites of this country, among the privileged ones. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This also includes sometimes shutting up, Mr Pirklhuber, and listening. You may have this more necessary than some others in here. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Very interesting!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know as well as I do: It is not the office that makes up a person and gives it the value, but it is the other way round. It is the person who makes up an office and gives this office the value. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that our candidate Norbert Hofer will take up the proof of truth in his office for these two sentences.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3716	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. 5 minutes remaining speaking time of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3738	Madam President. Mr President! High house! This time we have to succeed: Parliamentaryism new! That was also the battle call of the last legislative period, and that is why we are so skeptical. I can also turn to all new ones, especially in the ÖVP and in the SPÖ: Watch out! It's something inside. Don't be guided by the gangband, as your colleagues have often been! Parliamentaryism new means a lot of things, but let me say something positive at the beginning: Yes, of course, Austria is in total economic – social is another question – compared to many countries in the world, even in the still successful Europe, well there. It's a standard set soon. But I'm also saying this to demonstrate that it's not about always saying anything bad. But the question now arises whether this is true in spite of or because of our political system – and I am increasingly tending to answer that despite our political system it is. I just want to focus more on the parliamentary system. The tasks are perfectly clear: Legislation and control – but self-confident legislation! I conclude with the remarks of Jacob. He said, "Look at me, and say, "I don't know what Yes, this is not as easy to do here in the house – and I am now focusing on control, independent control, because everything that is no independent control means more damage than benefits. Let this be written in the main book, because you've done enough damage already! [[towards SPÖ and ÖVP]] That's what I'm talking about, unfortunately, from experience! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Never again, never again – and not because the investigative committee is a self-interest; the word “examining committee” is quite an unword among the parties here on the left and on the right – and never again should a committee of inquiry be turned off and strangled – even if it is at the height of the Enlightenment! [[towards SPÖ and ÖVP]] Never again! However, this has happened several times here. In this legislative period, we have the duty to abandon this strange use – or we are not a self-confident Parliament! All of this has an advantage for citizens, for taxpayers and taxpayers. Example: If the Banking Investigation Committee had not been turned off and strangled by you in 2007 by Red and Black, at the height of the Enlightenment so to speak, then the hypo disaster would not have been possible to this extent! This is about several billion euros; expect this! No one should say that a committee of inquiry is somehow about a political circus here in the house, but it is about the interests of the citizens, including the socially weak, because it takes money, money that you simply threw out somewhere else – with better knowledge! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner]] [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as representatives of Team Stronach and NEOS-LIF.]] If you did not know, you would have been able to convince yourself of the educational work in the respective investigation committee. But you prevented that too! You even prevented you from being able to fail! They didn't want this reconnaissance! Why didn't you want any information? – I now come to talk about another real constitutional problem in our Republic. – Because there is a raiffeisen group that determines the media! Ex-SP Klubobmann Cap came to me back then and said: We no longer hold the pressure; the media close to the Raiffeisen Group act against us, and therefore we cannot continue the investigation committee on banks! – So much for the “fourth pillar” in this Republic. This is also our responsibility in Parliament: to act against such controlled media! That must also be said. And we still have a lot to do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: This is the last speech!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... you didn't find anything!]] In the case of Eurofighter, too, it would have been different if we had been further examined in this committee of inquiry, because then we could have gotten out of the contracts much faster and much cheaper. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: (the tablet entitled ‘The U Committee Agreement as a minority right. Signed by Cap & Head” and keeping up to date with a copy of the said agreement) Your signature, Mr. Kopf!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They didn't want this investigation and they needed it, better: abused. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] That is why such an abuse should no longer be possible in the future, and it is therefore so important, Mr President, that the establishment of an investigation committee becomes a minority right: in the interests of Austrian citizens! Look at the German Bundestag, how it goes, how they do it! And exactly on this model, we agreed; it has already been signed. [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I ask you, too – Mr Spindelegger and Mr Kopf: Is a signature worth nothing more? Should the signature of a future President of the National Council be of no value? We mean, it must be worth something! If this is not clarified with the signature, then we cannot express our confidence here, because then again threatens that to the detriment of the Republic of Austria that, to the detriment of taxpayers with formal majority rights, abuse is being done against the spirit of Parliament and democracy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These are our experiences, and our experiences are also that a budget is not brought in here in a constitutional intention, so simple to me, nothing to you – unthinkable elsewhere! – because there are country elections somewhere. I remember having to interrupt the meeting as chairman of the Court of Auditors, because obviously a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats was prevented from voting for his free will! As far as it's come here in Parliament – and that must stop! [[Abg. Haubner: Where did this come from?]] That's why I'm calling on everyone to venture a restart together. This is also evident in the fact that this instrument of investigation is a minority right and cannot be abused by the majority.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3920	Mr Stronach. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European The total time left by the Group is 9 minutes; I am setting the clock to these 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3942	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! President-in-Office of the Council. For the time being, I would like to wish you all the best for your health. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Values citizens who are here personally, as well as those who now have the opportunity to pursue this democratic process on television screens: all the best! I am pleased and honoured to be here today in this honourable Parliament. We all went through hard elections, it was very emotional, but I always try not to become personal. Should this have been the case in these discussions and debates, I would like to personally apologise. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ as well as with representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS-LIF.]] This honourable house here is a place to think, a place to rethink. We have the obligation to do everything we can for Austrian citizens. Many people ask me why I went to politics in Austria. It's easy: I was born in Austria, I am Austrian, I am very proud of this country – and I think if you have a certain age, you have also gained many experiences, and I want to bring in my experiences, I want to serve Austria, because I know: There are also major problems in our country. In life it's like this: If anything doesn't work, then you should know that you have problems and which – whether in personal life, be it in the family, whether it be in a company or in the country. Problems need to be identified. Problems are like cancer. If you don't treat them, they're very destructive. That is my opinion, and that is why I try – of course, in Parliament too, to listen to the opinion of others – to think about the various opinions and to look for constructive solutions. In my opinion, it is important to address four important issues, issues that cause great concern in me. First: In Austria we should have a balanced budget – with a small surplus, so that we finally have the debt [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] It can be paid back. It is irresponsible for every child in Austria to come to the world with 30 000 euros of debt, so to speak. We also have a responsibility for future generations. Secondly, We live in a global economic world – whether it's going to be approved or not – that's reality, and in such an economic world you have to be competitive. My observation is: Austria is over-advertised! I think we can, as it were, reduce the administrative burden of civilisation: 5 percent every year, five years. This is possible, and it must and can be done in civilised form. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Thirdly, The tax laws have great influence, not only on the individual people but also on the entire economy. As I see it, the tax laws are very “grey”, full of privileges and various loopholes. There can be no need for a citizen to be afraid of a tax check. That must be quite clear, black on white. The two main points of a reasonable tax legislation for us would be: Companies investing their profits in Austria should pay only 10 percent of taxes – and 10 percent can pass on to their employees. Of course, many will wonder how the state could even create a budget, how it would then come to its money. We all know that workers pay most of the tax revenue. Firstly, workers have a moral right to get part of the profit they have generated through their labor. And that also means: If the workers get more money, that will revive consumption, and the economy will be boosted by it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] A very important point is also: Companies investing their profits abroad must pay the full tax, and they can no longer write down the losses over their profits and profits in Austria. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Bitch.]] Now there is an incentive for Austrian companies to move abroad, and this is a betrayal of Austrian workers. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] The most important thing I see is: We need parliamentary reforms. We need to understand as citizens that the government is the management of a country, and unfortunately – and I do not mean it in a cynical way now, because my daughter was also in politics, I have great respect for her, and I also know many people here, of the various parties I respect, too; there are also many politicians sitting here from idealism in the house – it is a certain reality that the mandate of a politician is to be elected and re-elected. That is, the whole country is managed by political considerations. That can't be good! That's against nature! And that is why I would like to talk to you constructively about this: How can we break this cycle? We are prisoners here in a system, and we need to speak constructively about it. It would be very simple: a Council of Citizens where we divide the country and say, for example, that there are 50 Councils of Citizens. A form is preprinted, a citizen has to fill out the form – where they are born, which schools, which work experiences, how the financial situation is, and then these forms, in short, are sent to households. Then comes a secret election, and whoever has the most votes would be a citizen. It wouldn't cost a citizen. – I see the light here at the speaker’s desk is already flashing, and it must be order here in the house. One thing pleased me: that I had 9 minutes here today – at least one or two at the ORF, I was always interrupted. [[Cheerfulness and applause.]] I was particularly pleased, and I would like to assure you – we are not left, not right, we are on the matter! – that we want to cooperate constructively here, and I respect all who are here. Thank you once again for listening! And even all citizens who have watched on TV are the best! Be there and listen carefully! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4102	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Dr. Mlinar with all the remaining speaking time of her club of 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4123	Madam President. Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! With each other instead of each other – this attitude has shaped “NEOS – The New Austria and Liberal Forum” in recent months! For this attitude, 5 percent of voters have lent us their votes – not because they clearly expect something from us in return: a new style in politics. And many trust NEOS and the Liberal Forum in this new style. Together with our esteemed colleagues in the future government and in the opposition, we will bring ourselves constructively, because we all face very big challenges – not only but above all in Europe! Many young people want to be part of this Europe, they want to belong to it and they want to show what they can, but they do not find a way to do this. With generation justice, an Austrian pillar is in danger, and the dramatic number of young people who are looking for work in vain is taking politics into account. We all, politicians, will be measured by how much we manage to create a life and a design perspective for these young people. As a voice tube of the boys, we know: Our future lies in a strong Europe that is democratic, transparent and civil! However, there is a need for a great common effort and a warm shoulder closure of the reform forces in the European Union. The Africans say: Words are beautiful, but chickens lay eggs. – It is high time that politics finally lays eggs in this country too. In this sense, I wish the President to be elected, whom we support, and the two Presidents to be elected for this National Council much success in their work. – Hvala lepa!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4173	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is a desire to carry out the elections in election cells, and I will therefore proceed in this way. [[11:46:29]] Election of the President/President
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4205	The first is the election of the President/President of the National Council. There is a proposal for an election on power. Barbara Prammer before. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes to other elective candidates. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be made secret to the election of the President, with votes. I am now briefly interrupting the session in order to create the technical conditions for this election in election cells. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4255	I'll start the interrupted session again. The preparations are over. I would ask the author, Mr Zanger, to be ready. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask for attention?- Oh, my God! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I took up the interrupted session again. We will now come to the vote, and I will explain the electoral procedure more closely. The minutes to be used shall be issued by the registrar, together with Kuvert, on behalf of the registrar, of the members of the Parliament's Directorate. For the election only the official voting paper shall be used. In this case, the name of the desired candidate must be written. After completing the poll in the election cell, it must be thrown in the envelope in the supplied urn. I now ask Members to receive their votes and envelopes on behalf of the scribe and then go to one of the voting cells. I would ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin with the name call; Member of the European Parliament Auer will replace him later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4318	Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that all of them have used their right to vote. The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. For this purpose, the session will be suspended for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4358	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session and ask you to take your seats. I announce the election result: Members cast: 183; of which: 176. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 89. It was for power. Barbara Prammer147 votes. [[General condolences.]] 29 votes were taken by other Members. That's why Mag. Barbara Prammer elected President of the National Council. [[The remaining 29 votes were for the MEPs: Dr. Cap: 17, Hundstorfer: 3, Dr. Eder-Linner: 2, Muchitsch: 2, Faymann: 1, Mag. Clues Down: 1, Head: 1; Dr. Pilz: 1, Shot helmet: 1.]] [[12:36:15]] President's address
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4432	Ladies and gentlemen, as usual, I am allowed to give my address at this point. First of all, I would like to say that I accept with great joy the choice that I sincerely thank all those who have given me their trust, but also everyone else, and that I can assure you that I will be very responsible with this advance in confidence. “Responsible” means to me to exercise this office objectively, as in the past seven years. I will continue to make a fair effort to compensate and to make my contribution to a constructive parliamentary work. I accept my job as President of the National Council with great joy and humility. Ladies and gentlemen! We're going to the XXV with a premiere. legislative period. For the first time – and this has often been mentioned today – the National Council is composed of six elected political groups. It will depend on what we are doing in the next five years from this constellation, as we find ourselves in the common position from different positions, partly far apart. Every choice also means that there is a change in personnel – this time in a special way, even today it has already been discussed. For the first time, 59 Members have taken part in this Chamber, 19 more have heard Parliament before and returned to the National Council. The proportion of women has gladly increased – perhaps it will continue to grow in the future, I say – and the proportion of young Members has also increased significantly. That is to say, the National Council has become more than a third new and has become more diverse. I particularly welcome the new ones and, of course, offer them full support from the House to all Members. The staff of the Parliamentary Directorate see their central role in this very task, and I would like to thank the staff very much at this point for their high professionalism, which they give to all. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we, each one of us, have praised the Republic of Austria “unbreakable fidelity”, we have praised“the constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws, and – not least – “the conscientious fulfilment of our duties”. – This is more than a formula, that is personal commitment, and it will be up to all of us to live, through our work here in the House, but also outside the House, parliamentary democracy and the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen! This constituent meeting will not only open a new legislative period. We should also understand today as an opportunity to work together in a new composition for a parliamentary debate and dispute culture that meets the expectations of citizens. This was also discussed several times today at the speaker’s desk. Such a culture requires political passion on the one hand, but respect for other opinions on the other. It will be up to us to embodie politics as what it is and to convey it: the vital discussion with the question of how our society should be organized. This calls for clear political ideas and common sense at the same time. It will also be up to us to prove policy's ability to act and resolve. Policy is rightly measured by whether it is willing and able to find answers to the questions of time, to solve problems, to ultimately ensure more justice in society. This requires expertise and, above all, ability to compromise. It will be up to us to contribute by our actions to the fact that politics in the public sense enjoys the importance it deserves and needs due to its importance. This, in turn, requires seriousness and what is commonly called propriety. This high responsibility has always been aware of the vast majority of Members in the past. I emphasize: always conscious! However, I am also convinced that the newly elected National Council will also be able to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not know what the next five years will bring about changes and thus political challenges. The last legislative period was overshadowed by a global financial and economic crisis that put all plans out of place and forced political responses to do so. We all remember together the beginning of the XXIV. legislative period. Austria has mastered this task well compared to many other countries. It is in the essence of the future that it is uncertain; of course, that is no reason to oppose it without confidence or without concept. Let me outline some key points that appear important for our work in the five years ahead, and let me start with the house itself! The general renovation of the now more than 130-year-old Parliament building is indisputable. It has to be done, and it must be a national concern, because this house is in many ways – architectural, historical, cultural, political – a precious inheritance that must be preserved. Above all, this House is the centre of our democracy. In the knowledge of the importance of this House, the political groups agree on the need and urgency of rehabilitation, which is a stable basis for such a project. We, the National Council, will have to decide in the foreseeable future to what extent and in what form this rehabilitation project is to be implemented, and we will have to decide how much tax money is to be spent on it. Extensive preparatory work of the Parliamentary Directorate will provide us with a solid basis for decisions; we should take them with self-confidence for a contemporary parliamentaryism on the one hand, but also with a sense of sparingness on the other. Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentaryism and democracy in our country are certainly not a rehabilitation case, but we must not shut down further development and must be ready for reform. There is a public debate on how citizens can be more effectively involved in the political will-building process. The question is not – the question is not: representative or direct democracy?, because one does not exclude the other, but rather both complement each other. In democracy, Parliament is the place of balance between different political, social and economic interests, the place where social conflicts are conducted and good viable compromises are made. In other words, political will-building must continue to happen on parliamentary ground in the future. Therefore, those who want to reform democracy must first strengthen Parliament, because without a strong, self-confident Parliament, there can be no living democracy. Second decisive criterion for a democracy reform is balance. It must be ensured that policies are not reduced to the enforcement of group interests and respect for minority rights. We should take sufficient time for a thorough discussion on such a reform of democracy. This also applies to all issues that deserve a broad, comprehensive debate. And we should use the various instruments provided for in our Rules of Procedure, such as the Parliamentary Survey or the Survey Commission. Ladies and gentlemen! The relationship between the majority and the minority in question also affects parliamentarianism. If decisions are to be taken to the fullest extent possible, a climate of mutual trust and the basic willingness to agree, but at least to compromise, is needed. All Members, whether they belong to a government group or to the opposition, have the same rights. Minority rights are well designed in the Austrian Parliament compared with other countries, on the other hand, majority decisions constitute the essence of democracy and therefore have nothing to do with it. One thing. Like the other, however, there is no exclusion from a debate on a reform of the parliamentary rules of the game. Parliamentaryism itself must be permanently redefined and reorientated. The fact is that the demands for MEPs have changed dramatically, they have become more extensive and complex, they have not become less and less so since the accession of Austria to the EU, quite the contrary: New tasks and new challenges have been added. A contemporary Parliament is so well equipped that it can meet the requirements in a changing environment, and it is self-confidence that it can meet the government at an eye. Modern parliamentaryism also means transparency. Just as control is the most important task of Parliament's legislation, Parliament itself must be subject to public control. That's what our house has done. In the past legislative period, a number of laws and measures have been adopted to ensure greater disclosure and transparency. Ladies and gentlemen! We will continue to open the house in recent years. This will meet the growing need for the perceptibility of political decision-making processes and at the same time promote participation in democracy. In return, however, transparency also requires responsibleness. Dealing with information. In this context, I appeal not only to us, but especially to the media, to the Parliament, although critical but fair. Criticism based on prejudices and mere suspicions destroys confidence in the political system and ultimately damages democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's meeting is attended by many members of our Members. I can very much welcome you in our name and thank you very much: for your support, for your understanding, also for the abandonment of common time, which is required by our political activity. You, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all the best and good luck in your political activity! To all of us I wish for constructive cooperation in the service and for the good of the country and of all the people living here. I am a little presumptuous and thank you now – and I expect – for a constructive cooperation in the future National Council presidency as well as in the future Presidential. We want, I believe, to keep up with the past and use these bodies to prepare the best possible parliamentary work. In this sense: Thank you very much and thank you very much. [[General condolences.]] [[12:49]] [[12:50:22]] Election of the Second President
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4567	We shall now proceed to the election of the Second President. There is a motion for a resolution on Karlheinz Kopf. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this vote with votes. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes against other electable candidates. The electoral process is the same as before, so I save myself further explanations. I now ask the author, Mr Wolfgang Zanger, to begin with the name call; Mr Jakob Auer will replace him later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4619	Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that all have given their votes. That concludes the vote. The officials of the House who are assigned to do so will again, as before, take the vote counting, and for this purpose I will interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4650	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session and ask you to take your seats again. I announce the election result: Members cast: 183; of which: 172. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 87. Karlheinz Kopf141 voted in favour. [[General condolences.]] 31 votes were taken by other Members. Karlheinz Kopf is thus elected Second President of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4716	I ask you, Mr Deputies: Do you take the choice?
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4737	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I thank you very much, very much for your great confidence and very much accept this choice. I can promise you all that I wish to exercise this function objectively and impartially for the benefit of the whole House, for the sake of democracy and parliamentarianism and in good cooperation with all the political groups in this House. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4775	Ladies and gentlemen, I too can, of course, congratulate you very, very cordially, and when the first wave of congratulation is completed, I may ask you to sit here at the Bureau. [[President Head takes place on the Bureau.]] [[13:32:36]] Election of the Third President/third President
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4803	We shall now come to the election of the Third President/third President. There is a proposal for an election on Ing. Norbert Hofer. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this vote with votes. Again, I draw attention to the fact that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes made against other electable candidates. The electoral process is the same as before. I should now like to ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4847	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote has ended. The officials of the House responsible for this will, as before, make the number of votes. The meeting will be suspended for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4878	I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election. Members cast: 178; of which: 147 votes. The absolute majority of valid votes are thus 74. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Norbert Hofer voted for 118 votes. [[General condolences.]] 29 votes were taken by other Members.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4934	That is what Mr Ing is saying. Norbert Hofer was elected Third President of the National Council. I ask you, honourable Member, whether you accept the election.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4967	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you very much for the trust I have received. I am very happy to accept the election and I can promise that I will do everything I can to hold an objective, fair presidency, to support democracy and parliamentaryism and to be bridge builders between the political groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4997	I congratulate the third President, Mr Ing. Hofer, at his choice. Of course I can also ask you to sit here at the Bureau. We want to follow a use that all three presidents will take part in the Bureau together. I wait until the congratulations are completed, but I would ask if some of the Members could not congratulate them later. Is that possible? [[President Ing. Hofer takes place at the Bureau.]] So you can see the new Bureau. [[General condolences.]] Now I'm saying something you normally don't say as chairman: We will rarely take third place here. So it's not so tragic that the two armchairs next to me aren't the best. Before we reach the third item on the agenda, I may hand over the presidency to the second President, Mr Head. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] [[14:15:26]] 3rd. Point Choice of the authors and the folders and folders
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5050	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We continue on our agenda and arrive at the 3rd. Point: Choice of the authors and the authors, as well as the folders and folders. Since there is only one election proposal, according to an agreement at the Presidential Conference, I do not make this election by voting by standing up and sitting. Furthermore, the choice of the authors and the authors, as well as the folders and folders is made under one. Are there objections to this procedure? - That's not the case. I shall therefore proceed in this way. We'll get to the choice. It is my proposal, by Mr Harry Buchmayr, Mr Angela Lueger, Mr Hermann Gahr, Mr Wolfgang Zanger, Mr Mag. Daniela Musiol on writers As well as the representatives of Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, Gabriele Tamandl, Mario Kunasek, Dieter Brosz, MSc, Christoph Hagen and Mag. Nikolaus Scherak to select folders or folders. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this election proposal to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Is there anyone among the chosen who doesn't want to take the choice? – Since I see no sign of this kind, I congratulate everyone selected and assume that they have accepted the election. That is the point of the agenda. [[14:17:19]] 4. Point Election of the Main Committee
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5188	So we get to the 4th. Agenda item: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian According to § 30 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the number of members of the Main Committee shall be fixed by decision of the National Council. The election takes place according to § 30 para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of electoral lists, with as many Members as one vote in each list as it corresponds to the ratio of the numbers of Members who have subdivided the individual lists. The order of the electoral proposal is crucial for the election. A committee size of 24 members has been unprejudicially proposed for the main committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this proposal to be a sign of approval. I note the unanimous adoption of this proposal. Thus, according to § 30 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure on the SPÖ Club 7 members, on the ÖVP Club 7 members, on the FPÖ Club 5 members, on the Green Club 3 members, on the STRONACH Club 1 and on the NEOS-LIF Club 1 members. On the basis of the lists I have received, the following Members have been elected: from the SPÖ Club: Dr. Josef Cap, Anton Heinzl, Angela Lueger, Mag. Christine Muttonen, Mag. Barbara Prammer, Mag. Andreas Schieder and Hannes Wenninger ; from the ÖVP-Klub: Werner Amon, MBA, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Fritz Grillitsch, Peter Haubner, Karlheinz Kopf, Ing. Hermann Schultes and Dr. Michael Spindelegger ; from the FPÖ Club: Heinz-Christian Strache, Ing. Norbert Hofer, Dr. Johannes Hübner, Dr. Walter Rosenkranz and Dr. Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein ; of the Club of the Greens: Dr. Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl and Tanja Windbüchler-Souschill ; from the STRONACH Club: Dr. Kathrin Rebaur; from the NEOS-LIF Club: Dr. Matthias Strolz. This also involves the election and appointment of the members of the main committee. [[14:20:01]] 5. Point Election of permanent committees (Incompatibilities Committee, Immunities Committee, Budget Committee, Rules of Procedure Committee)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5420	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. I would like to begin with the following permanent committees: Incompatibilities Committee, Immunities Committee, Budget Committee and Rules of Procedure Committee. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of setting up the committees referred to above to be a sign of this. – This is unanimously accepted. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them in accordance with the principles laid down in section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The clubs shall make the members of the committee and alternate members of the President or of the President, who shall be deemed elected. Following the discussions of the Presidential Conference, a number of 18 members and substitute members are now unprejudicially proposed for the Inconsistency Committee, the Immunity Committee and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, each of which has been defined as follows: 5 members and replacement members each to the SPÖ and the ÖVP, 4 members and replacement members to the FPÖ, 2 members and substitute members to the Greens, 1 member and replacement member each at STRONACH and NEOS-LIF. The Committee on Budgets is unprejudicially proposed a committee size of 24 members and replacement members. These are distributed to the political groups as follows: 7 members and replacement members each to the SPÖ and the ÖVP, 5 members and replacement members to the FPÖ, 3 members and replacement members to the Greens, and 1 member and replacement member to each on STRONACH and NEOS-LIF. We shall proceed to the vote. First of all, I shall vote on the committee size of the Inconsistency Committee, the Immunity Committee and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for a committee size of 18 members and replacement members to have a corresponding sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I shall now vote on the Committee size of the Committee on Budgets. Those ladies and gentlemen, who are for a committee size of 24 members and replacement members, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. The names of the members or substitutes announced by the President's or the President's clubs and thus as elected Members will be mentioned in the Stenographical Protocol. [[See Annex p. 51.]] [[14:23:29]] 6. Point Election of members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and of the Federal Council within the meaning of Section 9 of the Constitutional Act 1948
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5527	We shall now proceed to the 6th and the last item on the agenda. This is the choice of the members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and the Federal Council within the meaning of § 9 of the Financial Constitution Law 1948. The Committee consists of a total of 26 members elected by the National Council and the Federal Council each half. The 13 members and substitute members of the National Council are distributed to the clubs by d’Hondt as follows: 4 members of SPÖ and ÖVP, 3 members of FPÖ and 2 members of the Greens. I have the following constituencies for this committee: As members: from the SPÖ Club: Elmar Mayer, Erwin Preiner, Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, Mag. Gisela Worm ; from the ÖVP-Klub: Jakob Auer, Mag. Bernd Schönegger, Gabriele Tamandl, Mag. Andreas Zakostelsky ; from the FPÖ Club: Walter Rauch, Bernhard Themessl, Christian Hafenecker ; from the Green Club: May. Bruno Rossmann, Mag. Werner Kogler. As replacement members: from the SPÖ Club: May. Ruth Becher, Andrea Gessl-Ranftl, Johann Hell, Hermann Lipitsch ; from the ÖVP-Klub: Ing. May. Werner Groiß, Mag. Michael Hammer, Mag. Andreas Hanger, Ing. Hermann Schultes; from the FPÖ Club: Rupert Doppler, Anneliese Kitzmüller, Dr. Susanne Winter ; from the Green Club: Dr. Ruperta Lichtenecker, Dr. Gabriela Moser. Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the proposals. Is there any objection to voting on the proposals? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the election of these Members, as I have announced them, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. This choice has also been made. The agenda is therefore exhausted. [[14:26:01]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5797	There is a written request from 20 Members, the proposed version of the official protocol concerning item 4 concerning the election of the main committee and item 5 concerning the election of permanent committees (incompatibilities committee) to read the immunity committee, the Budget Committee and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I shall therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol. ‘TO point 4: Election of the Main Committee The number of members of the main committee shall be fixed unanimously by 24. (Then the SPÖ club 7 members, the ÖVP club 7 members, the FPÖ club 5 members, the Green Club 3 members, the STRONACH 1 member and the NEOS-LIF 1 member club.) On the basis of the lists submitted, the following Members shall be deemed to be elected: From the SPÖ Club: Dr. Josef Cap, Anton Heinzl, Angela Lueger, Mag. Christine Muttonen, Mag. Barbara Prammer, Mag. Andreas Schieder, Hannes Wenninger. From the ÖVP Club: Werner Amon, MBA, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Fritz Grillitsch, Peter Haubner, Karlheinz Kopf, Ing. Hermann Schultes, Dr. Michael Spindelegger. From the FPÖ Club: Heinz-Christian Strache, Ing. Norbert Hofer, Dr. Johannes Hübner, Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, Dr. Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein. From the Green Club: Dr. Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, Tanja Windbüchler-Souschill. From STRONACH Club: Dr. Kathrin Rebaur. From the NEOS-LIF club: Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz. To-do point 5: Election of permanent committees (Incompatibilities Committee, Immunities Committee, Budget Committee, Rules of Procedure Committee) The establishment of the Incompatibilities Committee, the Immunities Committee, the Budget Committee and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure shall be adopted unanimously. A number of 18 members and 18 alternate members shall be adopted unanimously for the Incompatibilities Committee, the Immunities Committee and the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly,: SPÖ each 5 members and replacement members ÖVP per 5 members and replacement members FPÖ per 4 members and replacement members Greens per 2 members and replacement members STRONACH per 1 member and replacement member NEOS-LIF per 1 member and replacement member. A committee size of 24 members and replacement members shall be set unanimously for the Budget Committee. These are distributed among the political groups as follows: SPÖ each 7 members and replacement members ÖVP per 7 members and replacement members FPÖ per 5 members and replacement members Greens per 3 members and replacement members STRONACH per 1 member and replacement member NEOS-LIF each 1 member and replacement member.’ I ask you: Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[14:30:10]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-10-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5993	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1/A(E) to 33/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 1/J to 6/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 2.31 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
