ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e13309	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome you all very, very cordially. I'll open the 217. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. [[10:18:47]] Meeting of the 2013 ordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e13337	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 20. August of this year in accordance with Article 28(1). 1 B-VG the National Council for the 9th. ==References====External links==* Official website This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The official protocols of 213. Meeting of 3 and 4. ==References====External links== Meeting of 4. ==References====External links== Meeting of 4 and 5. ==References====External links== Meeting of 5 and 6. In July 2013, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, our President Mag. Barbara Prammer, whom I wish in all our names on this path for a rapid and permanent recovery. [[General condolences.]] In addition, the Members of Parliament are Ing. Gartlehner, Katzian, Mag. Grünberger, Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, Themessl, Venier, Dr. Winter and Mag. Jarmer as prevented. [[10:19:19]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e13378	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e13605	I also say that the fourteenth report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[10:20:19]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e13627	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question 15948/J tabled at the beginning of the sitting by Dr Pilz, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Justice concerning new beginnings without corruption: Enlightenment, political responsibility and money back to be treated urgently. [[10:20:51]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 14337/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e13648	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply to the question 14556/J by Mr Bucher, colleague and colleagues on the seminar and leisure centre of the Austrian National Bank by the Federal Minister for Finance. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. [[10:21:27]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e13672	Before entering the agenda, I will also inform you that Mr Magistrate. Stefan asked the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to report on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 2226/A) by Dr Fichtenbauer, colleagues, on an amendment to the Rules of Procedure Act 1975. In September of this year, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. The call for urgent request will take place at 1.15 p.m. The meeting will be held live on ORF 2 from 13.15 a.m. to 15.10 a.m. and on ORF III. I shall interrupt the sitting until 1/15 p.m. [[The sitting was suspended at 10.22 a.m. and resumed at 13.17 a.m.]] [[13:17:36]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Peter Pilz, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Justice concerning the start-up without corruption: Enlightenment, political responsibility and money back (15948/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e13737	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. I'll start the interrupted session again. We come to the urgent debate on the written question 15948/J. As it has now reached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e14533	I give the floor to Mr Dr Pilz as the first questioner on the grounds of the question which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, cannot exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e14554	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I shall certainly speak on behalf of all of us, when I convey to the President of this House our best wishes and express our respect. [[General condolences.]] In addition, I believe, I speak on behalf of many in this House, when I point out that the Minister of Justice is behind me wearing a small sticker with the title “Canceller Change”. [[Federal Minister Dr. Karl carries a yellow button on which is in black writing “Canceller Change”.]] I have not yet known that Chancellor change is one of the tasks of a Minister of Justice who is officially speaking and replying here in Parliament as part of a urgent question. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] But perhaps there is a “department for Chancellor Change” in the Ministry of Justice under ÖVP leadership, because the ÖVP no longer believes that a change of law can be achieved without the help of the Ministry of Justice. I would ask you, Mrs Justice Minister – but this is really your personal and party issue – not to wear such stickers on the government bank as long as you are a member of this Federal Government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Why not?]] And now on the subject of this urgent question. I think I am speaking another and perhaps last time in this urgent request in all our names, when I point out something. It is completely incomprehensible for many people in this Republic to have to talk about systematic political corruption to this extent and at this frequency in the Austrian National Council. Austria is not any state, even within the European Union, Austria is one of the richest countries in the world. If you go out of this house, you will notice that people do not understand that in one of the richest states of this continent and of the world there is a need for care, a state of education, a university emergency, and therefore the biggest questions of Austrian domestic policy cannot be answered and the biggest problems cannot be solved because there is a constant lack of money and because the Minister of Finance has to step down again and again before us and say we have no money to do so. I understand this in a country where there is little money, little tax revenue and little wealth of an economy, but not in Austria. And therefore corruption, annual billions of wastes are not only a question of political morality, not only a question of whether they are all equal before the law, but also a question of whether the future in our Republic can continue to be dealt with in such an irresponsible way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we manage to fight corruption, we can also recover these funds. Then there are taxpayers again for those people who have to pay their taxes honestly and on time and who ask themselves the question again and again: Why, with the support of individual parties, in particular of government parties, are there few in this Republic who pay no or far too few taxes and who, in an illegal way with political support, acquire something of this tax money, which is certainly not theirs? If these questions are not answered by a federal government, then it is up to the National Council, not only as a legislator, but as the government's chief inspector and the administration, to ask precisely these questions and to ask for answers to these questions. I remember together with you exactly the end of the last, the great corruption investigation committee. After a year, two things have to be said: first of all, how important he was and how much confidence he has given back to people in the possibilities of politics, but at the same time, what everything has happened in the meantime. At that time neither Gabi Moser nor I assumed that there is something like systematic corruption in Austria, which is operated at least by a party, probably several parties. In the meantime, we know more. In the meantime, we know more about the processes surrounding the Austrian People's Party. In the meantime, by means of court witnesses from a high ÖAAB official, we know that there is a list in ÖAAB, after which companies are disbursed, and the chairman of the Austrian Workers' and Workers' Federation in ÖVP has the task of addressing all these Group leaders, and of demanding from them – I call them – perhaps even some kind of political protection money for the ÖVP. In the Telekom process, the former ÖIAG General Director stated openly that Amon, a representative of the ÖAAB and the ÖVP, was with him and wanted money. To date, the ÖVP – not only for us but also for the public prosecutor’s office – owes us the list of companies which are regularly disbursed, which companies and corporate governance in Austria live in consciousness: If we don't pay our ÖVP protection fees on time, we have problems. With regard to Telekom, it was perfectly clear to the prosecutor's office: If this is not the case, then the suspicion of unfaithfulness and, in the case of the Austrian People's Party officials, the suspicion of the aid for infidelity exists. And I ask the question: What has the Austrian People's Party done? What legal services has she provided that she does not want to talk about for any reason? And what other services has she provided that she cannot or may not talk about for good reasons? – We want the list, Mr Klubobmann Head and Mrs Minister of Justice. And we want the achievements of the Austrian People's Party. We also want to know what happened to the advisory agreements, to the government councils and in particular to the MediaSelect agency, where there is an ÖVP account and witnesses confirm the following, such as your current National Council campaign leader Markus Keshmann – I quote –: “In Austria, Kickbacks are never paid out as a natural discount, but cash.” – That's what your current National Council election campaign leader says in a court-listed statement. And you, Mr. Klubobmann's head: Did you ask your National Council election campaign leader how does he know for sure that, at least as far as the ÖVP is concerned, kickbacks are not paid in natural discounts, but cash? Does this have something to do with the sudden recovery in the party budget of the Austrian People's Party before very, very short time? What black accounts are there in the black party? What black transfers are there in the black party? Not only do we Members of this House have a right to experience this, not only the people in this Republic whose tax money you are using in this way, but also – and you should not forget – thousands of volunteer officials of your party who can listen every day on the streets and in the innhouses to keep their own head of party from corruption. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How do your own people get involved? How are your own people going to have to take on responsibility on the street and in the election campaign for you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and for many others? I should like to speak personally to you, Mr President-in-Office. Gambling Act 2006: They have worked to prevent – you have also publicly confirmed this – an attempt by then Minister of Finance Grasser to change the gambling law in favour of Novomatic, together with the then and today financial spokesman of the Austrian People's Party. What you have not told us, however, is that soon thereafter 72,600 € have landed from an account of the Austrian lotteries covered by an agency called MediaSelect at the Austrian People's Party. Why didn't you tell us? Didn't you know? Then you would have to ask yourself who knew in your party who took the lottery money. And again, Mr. Klubobmann's head: Where was the performance? Where was the performance paid for by the Austrian People's Party? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Justice Minister, we are sending you a long list of questions today. These are the questions to be asked today and now, in time for the national elections, because people in this Republic want to know if this was all and if there has not been more. We have given some information about this – and in the opinion of the prosecutor's office on the Telekom process the detailed description – that boxes of evidence have been secured far beyond the Telekom area. There has been a second major customer of Valora, from which exactly the same system of hidden party financing has been operated. That's in the opinion. These are raiffeisen. Raiffeisen is the second major suspect next to the Telekom. I ask you, Mrs Minister for Justice: Where's the big Raiffeisen procedure? Is it only the Telekom that comes in or is Raiffeisen also coming in? And there are the first references to the OMC. Is the OMC coming? When is the OMC procedure similar to Deutsche Telekom? And when do there exist procedures for all these groups, their machinations and transfers, especially to the Austrian People's Party, which are in the opinion, which are well-known and which are known to Parliament? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We know today that for many years the Austrian People's Party has established a system of secret, hidden and probably illegal party funding – from the lotteries to the Telekom to Raiffeisen. We want to know the whole system and we want it to be stopped. We know today who the Austrian People's Party belongs to: certainly not the voters, but exactly the companies I have mentioned. In addition, EADS is added, as the BUWOG buyers are added and many more. And this is what the voters should know: who really belongs to the Austrian People's Party and who has developed the system of organized political corruption in this Republic. Of course, there are also other parties that are specifically suspected, and the first court judgments, which are not yet valid, do not concern the Austrian People's Party. This is about far larger procedures, up to the giant procedures – where should I say something? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] [[Abg. Hornek: To Libya and Gaddafi!]] To Libya and Gaddafi do you want to hear something? For example, at the interlocutory order of a Vienna court, which Mr Strache forbids publicly repeating these allegations? [[Abg. Strache: Issues presented to the Public Prosecutor's Office!]] Mr. Strache! You know – you do not yet know about the ÖVP – that a court has already recognized that which Mr Strache – and I say to you – forbids. [[towards ÖVP]] The Court notes that “due to the temporary link between the unfounded accusations and the forthcoming National Council election, it must be assumed that the defendant – this is a strategist – “has arrived, the applicant” – that is, we Greens – “to harm by the unfounded and constructed accusation of an illegal party donation of a regime still imponed.” [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] According to the case law, the risk of repetition is already indicated by the one-off infringement. The court forbids Member Strache to repeat that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] He also knows exactly why the court forbids him. He also knows quite exactly why he has made this improper attempt. His hope was obvious that the court would leave a little time. – Bad luck, Mr. Klubobmann! In this case, the Austrian court has decided quickly and against you. Mr Commissioner of the Austrian People's Party, you have not yet known this, but I would ask you to include in your calls the decision of an ordinary court. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – So much for the only accusation that has been raised against us Greens during the entire National Council election campaign! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] So, now back to corruption: There are two judgments which are not yet valid, which condemn the two former or one still-free to repay, among other things, money. I ask you one, Mr Klubobmann Bucher – you know the court ruling, you have given a public opinion on this –: Are you ready to repay the €960,000 – a court has recognized that this is probably illegal party funding, that it is at least money that you and your party do not belong to – before the election day? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] As a BZÖ, you are ready to give a clear signal to voters and people in this Republic: Yes, I know – at the latest by this court ruling – that this money does not belong to the BZÖ, but to Telekom? Are you willing to make this step of active repentance on behalf of your party and repay this money? The same question must be addressed to the Freedom Party. In the Causa Telekom/Rumpold there is an almost equivalent first instance judgment, which says that the Freedom Party has 600 000 euros to repay. Mr. Klubobmann Strache! Are you willing to repay this money before the election day, or do you need a judicial authority and another judicial authority? [[Abg. Kickl: Here you are the wrong instance!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Rent!]] How often does the Freedom Party have to be sentenced to pay back money you don't hear for the first time? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Now get rid of the authorities, or how is that?]] That is the question you have to answer in time for this choice. Of course you can go back and say: Yeah, but it's much more at the ÖVP. – That’s right, it’s much more at the ÖVP! The ÖVP would have to repay: 72 600 € dubious cash flows from the Austrian Lotteries; 50 000 € to an ÖVP account from the Raiffeisenlandesbank Upper Austria – dubious flow of money! – 10 000 € Telekom, Amon – the criminal proceedings are already being brought against the accused Werner Amon – 96 000 € in the so-called 2008 youth election campaign of the Austrian People's Party, also a dubious, probably illegal flow of money. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] And don't forget: €2 130 000, which two agriculture ministers have thrown directly to the peasantry by tar companies with intentional deception on the part of the public. They're not Deutsche Telekom, they're not lotteries, they're not raiffeisen. These are taxpayers! More than € 2 million from the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture has been directed to the Federal Farmers' Federation under deception by the National Council of Agriculture Ministers of the ÖVP. [[Mr Kickl and Dr. Moser.]] And I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Klubobmann's head: This question should be answered whether the ÖVP is ready to repay a total of €2.3 million before the National Council election – that is the lower limit of dubious and illegal party funding that has been proven to you as ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Is it not the Langthalers?]] Of course also the SPÖ! I have read the expert's opinion, which reads: The then top candidate and later Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer is transferred by Dr. Hochegger to the carpet business Ali Rahimi in the 1st century. District led so that he can personally convince himself that a 20 000-€-Telecom donation comes from Telekom via the Valora eh, so that he knows who he is obliged to. In the case of SPÖ party chairperson and peak candidate, this was logically done in the carpet bazaar; okay, just €24 000, okay, only three times – is €72 000. But, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, is the SPÖ ready to repay this money? Or she says: The carpet money belongs to us, that's what we've collected. We're not gonna give it back, Ali Rahimi is our witness. That's certainly not how it is! It is therefore important this time that the payday before the election day comes that the payday for ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ is already before. This is a very crucial point that decides what political culture looks like after this National Council election. We will have to negotiate a new government after the National Council election – we do not know how it goes out – in different compositions that we do not yet know. We have only one wish: that it has been a new beginning for a long time and for the first time without corruption; that it is possible for the first time to negotiate crediblely in Austria about a government where the government agreement and the laws that follow it are so clear and so clear that you, ladies and gentlemen of the four parties mentioned, can never do what you have done in recent years. This is the crucial point: that we still use the last days and weeks to prepare a new start. I would never say that the entire ÖVP is corrupt. It is enough if the tops are clearly involved in corruption and are not prepared to clean up and repay. But it is important to know that there are others in these parties, and these others should be given a chance through a choice and an election result. It is therefore important that it should be done on 29 October. September corruption, organized political corruption is chosen, because it is only then possible to try a new political beginning in this Republic in the interests of the Austrians, in the interests of our rule of law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e14798	To answer the question, Mrs Federal Minister for Justice Dr Karl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e14819	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! Let me clarify a few things in general before I come to the answer to the questions in question. I am right to give you, Mr Pilz, that the fight against corruption is a central, important issue, and I can assure you that the fight against corruption was also one of the most important issues for me as Minister of Justice and, of course, remains. We must not forget one thing, ladies and gentlemen: Corruption harms the rule of law and, of course, our democratic society. We must not forget that corruption is also about the need for the people to have confidence in justice and confidence in politics. If the people no longer have any confidence in politics, no longer have confidence in justice, and above all have no confidence in the functioning of justice, then the negative consequences for our society, negative consequences for our rule of law and for our democracy. That is why it was important to me from the very beginning that we strengthen the confidence of the people in justice and, of course, this important pillar of the rule of law. Since I took office, I have also been following the line that, in all corruption cases, it is necessary to determine and judge the person without respect. I think this is very, very important, when it comes to combating corruption, because it does not matter who is involved in a procedure, which person is in what role it is in. This must apply in particular when it comes to persons of public life. There must be no special treatment for people living in public life. I have always been committed to this, and it is also very important to me personally that the public prosecutors and courts are best supported in doing so in order to be able to solve all criminally relevant cases without any external influence or disability. I believe that the work of the prosecutors and courts really speaks for itself. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: and why do you wait so long with your decision in the case of Faymann?]] In recent months we have been able to experience many procedures, where there are already initial convictions, many investigation procedures are under way. In other words, you see that the judicial system actually determines and condemns the person without respect. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Faymann! Without the person's reputation!]] I would also like to say one thing, Mrs Moser, because you always call in: I was skeptical at the outset when a parliamentary investigation committee was running parallel to the prosecutor's investigations, but in reality this proved to be good for the prosecutor's office insofar as for the first time the very good work of the prosecutor's office has become really visible. The work of the investigative committee was based on the investigation and investigation of the prosecutors. In this respect, it has been shown that the prosecutors actually do very good work, that they continue to do it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] I would really like to thank you, Mrs Moser, and also all the other members of the committee of inquiry for the fact that cooperation with the prosecutor has worked so well. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I do not think we should use the election campaign to ignore what has been done together in the fight against corruption. I should like to remind you that, in Parliament, an intensification of corruption law has been decided, even unanimously decided. It is about the 2012 law on corruption criminal law, and it was really great that all political groups worked well together, that all political groups had a very objective, very well-founded discussion and at the end of the day there was a very good change in the law of corruption, that a reform of the criminal law on corruption came about, which is also internationally recognised. We have really created a modern law of corruption, which is really a pioneer in international comparison. For example, we were expressly praised by EU Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding. It was also successful – and this was my goal from the outset – that we could implement nine of the ten recommendations of the GRECO report, that is, the report of the Council of Europe's State Group on Corruption. Other countries still need to implement these recommendations. We made it together in Austria, and I would also like to thank all those involved very much. What have we succeeded in strengthening the law of corruption? – For example, we have expanded the term of office. We have expanded the term of office to include Members – for example, a topic that is still being debated in Germany – but we have also extended the term of office to employees and institutions of public companies. This applies to all companies where the public hand carries more than 50 percent or is subject to the audit of the Court of Auditors. You see, therefore, that the application of the corruption law has been extended to these groups. I can remind you of something else: We have also made the famous and well-known feed more intense, and there have also been a lot of success. I would also like to make it clear here: If it is said again and again that, contrary to Germany in Austria, the party financing and even the hidden donations would not generally be punishable, that is not true. It is precisely these new criminal offences, namely the acceptance of advantage and the use of advantage to influence or infidelity, that can be applied, and of course there may be fiscal and financial consequences. So there is no point in talking about freedom of punishment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not only important that we create the relevant legal regulations, we have, of course, also set other emphasis on the fight against corruption, such as the strengthening of the economic and corruption prosecutorship. It does not help us the most beautiful laws if they are not implemented accordingly. In fact, with the economic and corruption prosecutorship, we have a spearhead to fight corruption, and from the start it was important for me to extend the WKStA accordingly. When I became Minister of Justice, eight prosecutors worked at the WKSTA. Today at the beginning of the year it was 21, and we were able to increase to 30 from the beginning of the year until now. So we now have 30 offices for prosecutors and prosecutors at the WKSTA, and I'm going to write out five more plans for senior prosecutors or senior prosecutors, so that we will soon have 35 public prosecutors available at the WKStA. This was also achieved by the fact that I was able to negotiate 93 additional planning posts during the last budget negotiations, a large part of which went into the fight against corruption, namely 14 prosecutors and prosecutors, seven judges and 17 lawyers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] It was also important to me that we train the prosecutors and prosecutors, judges and judges better when it comes to combating corruption and economic crime. We have great lawyers in use, but especially in the fight against corruption and economic crime one obviously needs economic know-how, because only when one has understood the economic background of a case can one solve it legally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] That is why we are using more economic experts, i.e. we have gone about putting economic experts on the side of the prosecutors and prosecutors in order to bring this economic know-how even more into the light of these cases. We currently have eight business experts in use. In addition to classic economic experts, for example, this is an IT expert, an expert in banking and stock exchange, or two experts from the accounting sector. So you see, a lot has been done, and it is of course also important to me that we focus very much on the field of training and training. I have established a training and training centre in the field of economic law. For example, together with the Vienna University of Economics, I have set up a master's course on economic crime and law, which is very much used by the prosecutors and prosecutors, judges and judges. It is also about putting this economic know-how even more in the foreground and offering even better training and training. Another important point I would like to mention in this context is, of course, that we must also help the prosecutors and prosecutors to clarify the cases more quickly. We have set up an anonymous guidance system, a so-called Whistleblower homepage, where it is very easy for the prosecutors and prosecutors to come to the right and important information as quickly as possible. This also makes it easier to explain the cases, because it is often very, very difficult, especially in the case of corruption, to get to the point of who is involved in what the act is. It is important for one to unwind that one chats, and we have already experienced very good experiences with this anonymous indicator system. We've got stand 1. September 2013 – and this information system has been available since the end of March of this year – already 675 messages. Of these 675 reports, only 8 per cent are completely unsubstrated, i.e. the remaining indications are usable, of course help the investigators in their investigation and have proved to be really very targeting. Ladies and gentlemen! By strengthening the right to corruption, by strengthening the economic and corruption public prosecutorship, but also, of course, with the transparency package, the lobbying law and the party financing law, we have created framework conditions for transparency and honesty in politics and the economy, we have actually created a framework for social change. Public administration guidelines and guiding principles must be re-establishment, honesty and morality. I believe that this can and must not simply go by, and we have, of course, needed clear and unmistakable rules, which we have also introduced. The Court of Justice can, of course, comply with this claim made to it only if the principles of the division of power and the rule of law are respected as an indispensable pillar of the independence of ordinary jurisdiction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The prosecutors and courts have proved in recent months how corruption and infidelity are effectively combated and how unimpeded by rank and name is determined and persecuted. I would like to hold on to this point as well: There is no need, above all, to call through politics. The prosecutors know very, very well what they have to do; I think calls from politics are more than unnecessary. I would also like to repeat what I have already done on the occasion of the reply to Mr Pilz's last urgent question: I have already been denied, on the basis of fundamental considerations, details from the investigation of the public prosecutor's office here in public sitting. The fact that the investigation procedure is not public has good reasons. This is not a question of secrecy, it is not about keeping anything secret, but about the non-publicity of the investigation procedure there are very good reasons which I am of course not entitled to interrupt. This concerns, for example, respect for the rights of the parties involved and their right to an undiminished and fair assessment of the results of the proceedings. I simply have to pay attention to basic legal positions which are repeatedly secured, for example through the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, the right to respect for private and family life and, above all, the requirements arising from the principle of presumption of innocence and the fair procedure as a whole. Even though the presumption of innocence is unfortunately very often mistaken, I should also like to remind you that the presumption of innocence is a very central principle of our rule of law. Finally, I must also mention the limits of my inconsistency on ongoing investigations. The management of the investigations shall be the responsibility of the prosecutors under the control of the court. My task, and therefore the area of my ministerial responsibility, is to preserve the uniform application of law and the proper application of the substantive and formal law. In other words: My task is focused on the control of results, but this also means that I am not to be informed about every process step, which in fact makes it impossible for me to answer the questions addressed to me in a comprehensive manner. But let me now come to answer the questions raised to me, and I really want to point out the allegation of the cover-up raised in the explanatory statement. You will not find any evidence that I or my staff at any stage have influenced the investigations. On the contrary, the public prosecutors and courts determine and judge in full independence and freedom of design, as is likely to have become clearly visible in the face of recent proceedings relating to hidden party funding. Furthermore, I would like to remember, in principle, that an evaluation of individual files would be necessary to answer the following questions, which was not possible to me at the given time. I now come to answer the questions. Questions 1 and 2: In this regard, I refer to the answer to the urgent question addressed to me. November 2012 and my answers to the following questions, to the extent that members of the Federal Government and representatives of the National Council are involved as accused in the procedures in question. Question 3: It is the so-called parent procedure Telekom, which is led by the public prosecutor Vienna because of the fact that Telekom payments to the Valora or the Valora due to suspicion of infidelity according to § 153 and the money laundering according to § 165 StGB. Investigations in this procedure are still pending. The opinion of the expert Dr. Kopetzky on payment flows or business transactions has been obtained and is currently being evaluated. With regard to individual payments from this complex, I have received project reports from the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna, which are currently being examined in the specialist section. The circle of the accused has not changed. Apart from the project report just mentioned, it is possible to close the parent procedure for autumn 2013. Question 4: There has been no change in the circle of the accused. It is found against a total of seven defendants for the suspicion of unfaithfulness. A WKSTA project report is currently being examined in the relevant section. Question 5: The joint consideration of the commission payments carried out by awarding the advisory mandate to Lehman Brothers Bankhaus AG and the sale of the federal housing companies as well as those relating to the rental of the Linz financial services in the Terminal Tower must be given to the same consideration of the three medially known accounts ‘Natalia’, ‘Karin’ and ‘Walter’. The investigation procedures in question have not yet been completed. A final hearing will be held in the coming weeks, in particular with the accused, on the status of proceedings. Furthermore, outstanding data views are made by the Soko Constantia. The legal aid procedure has still not been concluded with the Swiss judicial authorities concerning the transmission of account documents. Finally, it should be noted that during the search of the defendant of the accused Ing. Meischberger still does not provide secure and sealed data of the WKStA and the relevant decisions of the Vienna Regional Court of Criminal Matters are still pending. The findings to be made by Dr. Altenberger on the accounts secured will be concluded in the coming weeks. On question 6: The public prosecutor's office in Vienna is currently investigating against five defendants for the suspicion of infidelity, against two other defendants for the suspicion of unfaithfulness as contributors, as well as for the suspicion of false evidence, against two other defendants for the suspicion of money laundering, in the event of infidelity as agents, and for the suspicion of false evidence. The alleged infidelities refer to payments made by the accused companies Telekom, Motorola and Alcatel to companies which are attributed to several accused persons and which do not face economically valuable benefits. It is suspected that these payments are linked to the tendering and award of the digital radio. As regards the state of the procedure, I can report that the BAK is in constant agreement and evaluates the documents submitted by the parties to the proceedings. Additional information requests were sent to Telekom and Motorola. In addition to the expert’s findings, the BAK carried out witness recordings from the supplier’s environment of an accused person. The expert's opinion has been extended to examine the accounting of the companies concerned in the light of the invoices submitted to the companies of the Telekom and Motorola Group. The termination of the procedure cannot be reliably estimated in view of the outstanding accusations. Questions 7 and 8: There has been no change in the circle of the accused, and the investigation procedure has been completed. At present, the Project Report of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna on the termination of the procedure is being examined by the employees of the relevant section. The reason for the duration is not in the holiday period, but in the complexity of the factual, legal issues. On the question 9: In the area of BMVIT, the following partial aspects are examined: An anonymously transmitted list of the costs of advertising calls shows a significant increase in expenditure between 2009 and 2011. The attached invoices and the vote of a BMVIT staff member indicate that BMVIT did not negotiate discounts and did not use Skonti in the years 2009 to 2011, which is why the best possible conditions had not been used. According to the information provided by another BMVIT staff, no discounts should have been negotiated, especially in the case of advertising in the media of the Fellner Group. Investigations on this matter are still ongoing. Secondly, Suspect of infidelity in connection with the award of the production of the advertising spot “Alcohol am tax” in 2009 by Bundesbebeschauf GmbH. Among others, Vienna Nordbahn Werbagentur GmbH and Lowe GKK Werbagentur GmbH participated. In addition, the evaluation of the remaining offers by the awarding commission is intended to ensure that the Lowe GKK receives the award, although the advertising spot is a plagiarism and the project cost of the Lowe GKK was higher than that of Wien Nordbahn GmbH. A project report from the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office is currently being examined in the Federal Ministry of Justice. The procedure of the Ministry of Agriculture was based on a number of facts, which essentially relate to a raw report by the Court of Auditors on the public relations of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The Court of Auditors criticised the practice of advertising and the public relations of the Ministry. The Project Report of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna, 13 December. It is currently being examined by the relevant section on June 6, 2013. Question 10: The circle of the accused has not changed. In the first-mentioned procedure, the expert's examination is whether a payment flow of companies of the Novomatic Group via a company of Dr. Hochegger or Ing. Meschberger an Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser took place, not yet completed. The completion of the well-known activity is expected for autumn 2013. On the question 11: The proceedings are brought against six defendants for §§ 146, 147 para. 3, 165 para. 1, 2 and 4, 153 para. 1 and 2, 307 para. 2 StGB and § 33 Financial Criminal Law. According to § 190 Z 2 StPO, the proceedings against an accused person were held on 30 June. ==References== There would have been no further suspicions in this regard in the course of the investigations. The other written documents also show no reference to a criminally relevant intervention of the accused. Furthermore, house searches were carried out and bank information was provided. After evaluation of these documents, the following report will be made by the Public Prosecutor's Office in autumn 2013. Questions 12 to 19: In the so-called Telekom stem proceedings of the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office, an expert opinion was collected, among other things, on the business connections of Valora AG or cash flows to and from Valora AG in the years 2004 to 2009. This opinion has now been received from the Public Prosecutor's Office. This opinion deals, among other things, with payment flows to Echo GmbH, MediaSelect GmbH and the Raiffeisen Centrobank. A report on the subject of MediaSelect, OmniMedia, media.at has also been sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which reports, among other things, on payments made by Valora AG, Raiffeisenlandesbank Oberösterreich and the Austrian Lotteries to MediaSelect. Question 20: In principle, I refer to the answer to questions 12 to 19. The statements of witnesses and the payment flows presented in the expert’s opinion are still being examined. Details have not yet been reported to me by the prosecutors. Questions 21 and 22: In this respect, I refer to the answer to the third question. In addition, suspicions or proceedings were not reported to me by the prosecutors. With regard to one in this regard against Federal Minister Mag. Dr. Maria Fekter's suspicion was not reported to me. On the question 23: The case-law is the subject of an investigation of the public prosecutor's office in Vienna in the Central Public Prosecutor's Office for the Persecution of Economic Criminals and Corruption. In the room is the accusation of unfaithfulness. The investigations are still ongoing, and the time for the completion of the procedures which are not publicly available in accordance with § 12 StPO is not yet available. Against this background, I would like to understand that no further details can be made available at the current stage of the proceedings. Question 24: No, no, no, On question 25: The essentially because of the suspicion of infidelity according to § 153 para. 1 and 2 StGB investigations against a total of twelve defendants have been completed. Since the beginning of June 2013, the investigation has been carried out with an extensive project report from the public prosecutor's office in Vienna and a statement from the Upper State Prosecutor's Office in the relevant department of my home. Since the project report not only covers this fact, but deals with several facts or complex facts, it is only in the next few weeks that the examination is expected to be completed. On the question 26: This is the subject of an investigation procedure for infidelity. The project report of the WKStA is currently being examined by the OStA. Questions 27 to 30: I was told by the WKSTA about a procedure in which the suspicion of infidelity according to § 153 StGB is examined as a contributor. I am not aware of the details of the procedure as a result of the reports I have limited to the ERMs. With regard to Frank Stronach's hearing of the fact that Eurofighter-Gegen business is not available to me. In this context, I refer to the answer to question 11. Frank Stronach is not being led here as an accused person after my information stand. On question 31: An answer to this question is not possible to me in view of the time available, because reports from all prosecutors should have been requested. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In 216. I praised the relevant climate of work in the Committee on Justice, before the summer break, meeting of the National Council. This relevant climate has led us to decide together in the area of justice that we have been able to move a lot together in the area of justice. I think it is very, very important that the area of justice be kept out of the day-to-day Hickhack, because, as I mentioned earlier, it is about the confidence of citizens in justice. I think it really is really more than negligent when justice is brought into the day-to-day hack. I believe that it is important that we signal to the people that Austria is a highly developed rule of law and that justice is able to contribute to the resolution of conflict in our democratic community, even if, of course, amendments are made to one point or another. That is completely legitimate. We should also work together to make our judicial system even better. High house! Let us therefore also try to ensure such respect for justice and the trust of the people in this kind of respect at the time of a forthcoming election. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e14970	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Kogler. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e14997	Mr President. Mrs Federal Minister for Justice, your last appeal is likely to be in line with many or all of them, and we will probably be able to do so in a different way. One or the other contribution will be You might still be able to deliver. I have to address once again the fact that some of us have been surprised by this: that, as the minister of justice, she is going to have such a sensitive debate as we are holding here and now, she is actually entering this emblem with the demand for a change of chancellors in this House. – Ms Minister of Justice, if there was evidence that this Republic needed a state-free prosecutor, then this is your appearance here with this emblem! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Why is that so? – so that the audience can better understand this too. – There is a causa that, by the way, makes me and many others, as I believe, extremely outraged, namely that a chancellor and former transport minister can be indirectly promoted through tax money from public companies, ASFINAG, ÖBB, and that this may also have been ordered – and pay others. Whatever the case, it can now be criminally relevant or not, I find it totally “appropriate”, and it is good that the Causa has come to the public. Whether this is relevant to criminal law and has real consequences or even leads to an indictment is another question. But what with certainty – with certainty! – is completely incompatible, is that you are at the top of the chain of decision – from a political party that is not the Chancellor’s – that you have a project report from the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office – whatever it recommends; we believe we have read: At the end of the procedure, but I am not at all concerned with this, I should be accused of it, perhaps it is also right, I am in any case instigated – and that you are indulging in a change of chance, that you have a hand over this procedure, that you do not make the decision in the election campaign, so that it will continue to buy. This situation is unbearable. [[Conjugation with greens and SPÖ as well as with the Abg. New builder.]] There you could make a contribution – your last appeal was quite right. In the meantime, I would like to add – I have another appeal to you, and if you follow the appeals, you will probably do so – that we, Mrs Karl, have been discussing common discussions before you became a minister, usually on podies, on lectures, and these were exceptional and consistently factual. We were not always different opinions – most of them say so – and it was even often agreed, but there were also differences, but that's not the point at all. I very much appreciate that, but what I can't understand at all is that, I say now, so intelligent a person and a person capable of thinking about political connections in stress situations as an acting Minister of Justice to a ÖVP event in Styria is arriving at the Schafalm – that's no indication of our posters, which really means Schafalm, but There is also no scapegoat for political statements – so you, as the Minister of Justice, are climbing the Shealm to announce from there that the accusations about which it is here and today – I am going to bring them now, the accusations are all new, have occurred after turning off, after the disgraceful turning of the investigation committee; never again should an investigation committee be turned off! - Old hats are. We will now deal with matters which have subsequently occurred in the process of preparing your answer to your question, but which you have called old hats, as the minister of justice in office! Mrs. Karl, I can only invite you – aproposing change, change of chancellor –: Clarify your role! Take a change of roles, because what you are delivering here is, although you might be better, not just not tolerable, but is a reason for withdrawal if you do not quickly clarify it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It cannot remain that in the Republic of Austria the Minister of Justice announces such a thing, although this has only become known now – and not because “NEWS” writes something or the Greens are supposed to invent something, although usually based on facts, but on it lies an expert opinion from your prosecutor, from which it is clearly deduced that – I do not stop for long – not only does a lubrication system exist over black accounts, black cash, where at the end the black ÖVP benefits from it. That is quite clearly legible in there. I wonder why there is no charge in this context, before the election, but a small party is brought to court. That would also be an interesting question, but all of this will not go out at all. For the first time, it has been demonstrated in detail – which has always been known by everyone – how the Raiffeisen Group does not give a donation in any way, but is therefore only giving an illegal donation – then the question arises, for what purpose – because it has been put into this lubrication carousel, on cash accounts that have an extra ÖVP card that has been added to the ÖVP, from banks, from gambling companies and ultimately from Telekom. It has now been shown that Telekom has had a massive interest in, including at that time, and has intervened massively, including you, with individuals of you, including Mr Molterer, at that time, no more Vice-Cancellor Molterer, that a certain legislation is prevented here in the house, which has also succeeded in preventing Telekom from being examined by the Court of Auditors. That's how things hang together. So there are quite new facts and evidence that the banks, the gambling companies, are paying in. I will also be able to prove, for these two cases, that the accusation of the purchase of law is clearly in the room, because since the end of the committee of inquiry is becoming more and more angry and not better, the accusation of the purchase of law, but at least the influence of the legislation is as good as proven. And then the Minister of Justice comes and explains that the panel of journalists, that is, what I have just said, are all old hats. Mrs. Federal Minister! The House is oblivious to Parliament, the Palace of Justice, now either a Ministry of Justice or a hat for old hats. What now? – You have to take your statement back in an appropriate form from my point of view – you have somehow succeeded on another occasion anyway – otherwise there would be only the alternative of withdrawal, with all respect I would really bring to you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The accusations that have now appeared are serious. It is about a system where a certain Mr. Keshmann – with Kappa, Emil, not English – explained that the kick-back payments in Austria do not provide natural discounts, but obviously cash, which is credited with an account system for the ÖVP, a “washing system”. Smells of the most evil of goodness appear. Do you know what credits will be paid for there? – credit due to the mediation of the government campaign. – Aha, the ÖVP receives credits when this government bank communicates from campaigns. There is no doubt that Mr Pilz's premise that this is an organized collection of protective funds is quite noble. What's that? In any other country of the European Union, due to these compelling accusations, there had long been withdrawals. Not so with us! That is why we are continuing to fight for information here, and that is why we are also saying: Never again can a committee of inquiry be turned off exactly when it is at the height of its investigations! I would add that it was also the case with other committees, with the Banking Investigation Committee. It all fits together: Bank package – why did the negotiations and results and the regulations look so much different from the law we have decided here when, at the same time, a government party gets money from the banks? It's all obvious. The Banking Investigation Committee was turned off when we were at the Hypo, in the inconsistencies there. We would have saved billions if we had passed the investigation in time. You are responsible for this from black and red, the mother of all billions of large-scale damage, as you have turned off the investigation committee. That's all a connection, that's not just imagination. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, we have to do with a system that screams right after that, not only after “Never again!” but also after that we have to organize the restart together here. I know most of you are decent and wish for it. That is why we now have to end the investigation, make good – this will require repayments on your part – and then we can start this restart. You've known for a long time. So act after that, and do yours, Mrs. Justice Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e15110	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e15131	To be honest, I also lack any understanding that you are sitting here in official mission as Minister of Justice on the government bank and here this plaque... – “Ohe”, I also say, because a chancellor change would be bad for Austria, here I am entirely your opinion. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because you, as Minister of Justice, carry this plaque, somehow comes up with the suspicion of a partiality that you symbolize with it, and we cannot accept that. I understand the criticism of my previous speakers, and we also believe that this is actually unacceptable, especially from the point of view that you meant that the justice should stand out from this day-to-day policy, out of which Hickhack. I confirm that the work in the Committee on Justice – which has been reported to me over and over again – and also cooperation on the upper level is always marked by great materiality. That is why I understand from the point of view of what you said earlier, also with regard to politics – and I assume that the judicial system, especially the prosecutors, will do their work very precisely as before; in all the points that have been formulated, among other things, in this urgent matter, certain things simply are not, for example, a certain language. Many who watch and listen will not understand that either. We have agreed together here in the House 647 laws. Of these 647 laws, 82 percent – with different compositions – were agreed together with opposition parties, 37 percent unanimously! 18 percent have chosen red and black alone. This is actually evidenced by a climate of conversation and work, which is constructive and positive. And I would warn you that we are beginning to break down porcelain in a series of elections, which would really make it difficult to maintain this working climate. I say that clearly. We will continue our efforts to preserve this working climate for Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This also includes dealing with the club fractions. At one or another election press conference, Mr. Klubobmann Kopf, we should remember that we have been co-ordinated every week, trying week after week to get something done for Austria. That is why I do not understand when, in this debate in the context of the election campaign, a choice of words is taking place, which certainly does not improve this climate, even between us. I think you should think about whether you will continue to stick to this choice of words in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I don't want to go into any details, but it's like that. [[Abg. New builder: What about corruption?]] Previously, the Minister of Justice has tried to explain what positive changes we have reached together in the Law on the Law on the Law on Criminal Crime. That's what you're supposed to say. All those who make themselves today and say that nothing would have happened in Austria, there would still be a swamp, completely forgetting what we have done here in the House: the law on corruption criminal law – by the way, unanimously passed, as you say – the party law – has decided that three parties to the National Council – the law on incompatibility and transparency – once again unanimously –, the contract limitation law, incompatibilities law – again three parties – the lobbying law – three parties – the media transparency law – all except the liberals. Even in these delicate laws, which will also be reflected in the surveys, at Transparency International, in all these rankings, opposition parties have voted in favour. The rankings are based on what is in the media, and we have fallen back because this is the echo of the black and blue/orange time, where the media then wrote about where the judicial proceedings started. - You nod, you're right. The majority of those who are now working out here and who have led to this deterioration are from this time onwards and are being reworked according to the laws. And if these laws play a role in the implementation – and I assume that they will – this will lead to an improvement and will have very, very positive effects in Austria, which is already far ahead, one of the cleanest countries in the international comparison. They said the number of corruption lawyers was increased from 8 to 30. This was not so easy at first, because it was also a question of financing. I remember not only talking to the Council of Ministers once and I said: Yes, please, for God's sake, we are not even able to compete with the Bayern in the reprocessing of this country-hypo-alpe-Adria scandal, where it is about twenty billion, 20 billion, that we are really able to observe the qualification of the people, from the number of people with the Bayern, so that information takes place there, because the taxpayer and the taxpayer want to know what is going on there, yes, that responsibility is assumed there and then judgments are made. This scandal also has an impact on the whole Republic. We have been trying for a longer time to achieve positive results in this area – I think that this is very positive, including what we have done together, also in the fight against corruption – and then everyone, when he sees something, has to be gentle in whatever party, whoever is affected, and to ensure cleanliness and order. This is a matter of course, and we are logically expecting that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am allowed to have a small sling on my predecessor's statements. In connection with the joke with the Sheep and the allusion to the communication of the Greens: “Less paralysed”, so choose Green!, I must say: At first glance one may be tempted to smile, at second glance it is no longer, for behind it is the following: Politics and politicians are all down, just: We're less down, so choose green. That's the message you have. And this is a line of right-wing populist argumentation that in reality does not benefit democracy, parties and politics. You have to say that here too! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: (in the direction of Green) A right-wing populist!]] As I said, we are trying to make a positive contribution to the work of the Coalition. It is not to be excluded that we will continue to work together after the next election day. I don't understand, therefore, if I have to hear via radio today the statement of the vice chancellor Spindelegger, namely the question of whether red-black or black-blue-troach: This is the alternative between Pest and Cholera. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - No, no, he said that. Plays through the band and can be heard on the radio. To do this, I have to tell you honestly: While we are trying to imagine what we have done with these 647 laws for Austria, have worked, trained, have decided here how the government and the members of the government have tried, says ÖVP's leader candidate: Red-black is the plague. So what you have said today, Mrs. Minister, is the plague. It is the plague to continue this cooperation here. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – You can then talk about the cholera, Mr Klubobmann, because you are smiling like that, because you are responsible for the cholera, but we are responsible for the plague because we feel affected there. This is really totally unacceptable. That's unacceptable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also saying this because, as a member of the co-ordination, I can sit there every Monday and confirm how we are trying to achieve something. Mr Klubobmann's head, you have to confirm this, because you have also been sitting there. There were often not easily manageable situations. But to put that down as a plague, that's really objectionable, and you have to put that in all its clarity here on the Pranger.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e15250	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e15271	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Abg. Grosz: We would like to hear about the plague and cholera!]] There can be no doubt at all that corruption as the greatest enemy of democracy must be combated by all of us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, it is far from all the corruption that Mr Pilz calls here or anywhere else as such. And it is far from everyone who claims that Mr Pilz is corrupt. Ladies and gentlemen! That is to say, I am opposed to how Mr Pilz, with half-truths, pulls things out of the context, finally detonates people from any files he has been playing on, and, finally, brings their personal and professional progress into discredit. That's really bad, Mr. Pilz! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In your inquiry, you speak of or reject the Ministry of cover-up in your request. It's an immeasurable one. Almost everyone in here still praised the Minister very much when in November 2012 she answered a question in detail, point by point, with the status of proceedings in all the requested cases. Why should the same minister now at once, just because it's just so popular and fits in the election campaign, want to cover things up? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because it's about the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Because it's about the ÖVP now!]] Mr Pilz, this is a monsterity to the Minister and her whole ministry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I were to act like Mr. Pilz and the Greens, I would, as a small example, represent the following: In 2006, 2008 there were elections in which the Greens employed an agency called Super-Fi, the managing director was Mr Niko Alm – now with the Neos, but then with the Greens, even once candidate. In a wondrous way, the same agency, after the Greens entered the city government in Vienna, received orders from there at once. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] If I were Mr Pilz, I would of course ask whether this is perhaps dubious party funding! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: right?- Oh, my God!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Green Corruption!]] Is there any subsequent kick-back here to the greens from tax funds of the city of Vienna? [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] If I were fungus, I'd say, No, no, not all the greens are corrupt. No, no, Mr Pilz says in this case to other parties. Mr Pilz, this green self-righteousness, which is, when it comes to your own things, not to show any ability to reflect your own actions, but to constantly shake others, is not all right! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Go, please!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it makes little sense now to discuss a 23-page pamphlet of the greens in detail. It is spit with falsehoods and with old hats. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is the difference between experts and...!]] . I quote the one who has written this opinion which you seem to be the basis for your accusations. He recently said in the media: For me, reporting on this report was already amazing, because it is all the old hats in there. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] - Yes what now? And that's what you accuse the minister when she quotes the expert? [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, is it true or is it not?]] I would rather deal with the Greens in general, ladies and gentlemen, if we were already here at this special meeting. Quote from the daily “The World”: “The Greens have been confronted with the worst values since 2009 a few weeks before the election. The time of the high-flights is over, the party [...] is only ten percent.” [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is a German newspaper!]] “More and more bourgeois voters turn away. Blame of it, believe researchers, are the research tax increase plans of the Greens, their annoying ban – and the embarrassing revelations from the past.” [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Go to Merkel!]] I admit, there is the talk of the German Greens, but, ladies and gentlemen, “research tax increase plans”, “serious bans”, “painful revelations from the past”, which always fits you! [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Greens]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... Berlusconi!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a little more to the list. [[Abg. Brosz:... Berlusconi...!]] No future-forming topic, human hatred in a continued way in the protection of immunity, self-righteousness instead of ability to self-criticism, arrogant moralisation towards others, inability and the economy of friends as soon as you are in government. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Red-Green in Vienna shows it!]] I can also illustrate that. Mr. Pilz, you've been waving around earlier with a interlocutory order, which is supposed to prove that you didn't get any money from Gaddafi. I listened exactly. If I were fungus, I would now ask the question: There's a talk of forbidden party donation. Did you get a permit? We just recently banned donations from abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Go, please!]] Is it possible that you have received from Gaddafi a permitable donation of € 4 million and the judgment refers only to a forbidden one? [[Abg. Brosz: Say that outside...!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] If I were fungus, I would just argue and make such a claim. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Get to the point!]] Another thing about the morale of the Greens: The Austrian Greens do not hesitate to invite guests from abroad – from Germany abroad. Recently, it has not been a long time since Cohn-Bendit was here, it was also Trittin here, and they are currently confronted with the rather untiring and unustious accusations that they had in the 1980s had sex with minors publicistically justified. – What pity would the Greens demand from other parties if such a thing had happened in connection with other parties! But you yourself are not able to do this! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] On the contrary, Mrs Glawischnig has said last but not least that she is fully committed to Cohn-Bendit. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Tell me, are you still quite...?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, one last example: The green action “WahlweXel now!” – or supported by the Greens – calls on all Austrians with the right to vote to give their right of vote to a non-voting foreigner to protest against the non-existent foreigner’s right to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, you are constantly calling for democracy and you are treading our democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e15631	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e15652	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pilz's comments may have been received: If the issue of corruption is rightly an issue today in the context of this special meeting, it is good. Believe me, Mister Pilz: Who, if not us, has lived up to how to demand from the base if something goes in its own party in a wrong direction. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Pay! Pay back!]] We chased away the entire party peak at that time to ensure cleanliness in our own party with the year 2005. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would be good if that would happen in other parties in the sense of self-cleaning. We have lived this process exemplaryly, and that is exactly what distinguishes us from other parties. To what you said today, Mr Peter Pilz: Yes, even here one must hold, I have, as you know, introduced a statement of facts to the prosecutor's office, because there are some documents, evidence, evidence and facts to be verified, according to which not only a newspaper close to the Greens – it is certain – has collected millions of Gaddafis' dictatorial regimes, but also the suspicion that in 1993 you, as the guardian of the Greens, may have received millions of support from a dictatorial regime. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: (Uplifting from his place and keeping a document in height) Temporary order!]] It's supposed to be cleared up, I insist! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why a case-law presentation to the public prosecutor's office, which is also accompanied by an edict, where it is clear, to the Austrian Greens several million schilling. - That's to explain. If you, Mr Peter Pilz, stand out and then do not address your own area of responsibility in the sense of a living self-reflection – namely, in Vienna with red-green – but leave it to the left, this shows again: There, where you rule from the green side yourself, at the press information service, at the Bohmann publishing house, at the Echo publishing house, in the orders awarded in the city of Vienna, where apparently also advertising agencies of the Greens or those who are close to the Greens are profiters, there is great silence in the forest. When it comes to discovering, cover exactly there. In Vienna, for example, it is a committee of inquiry on the Skylink-Sweineries or on all Vienna youth homes in which child abuse has taken place. That's where you'll help cover. You're not ready to make sure of St. Marx's investigations. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Why? This is a minority right in Vienna!]] There you are when it comes to the areas of corruption and misdevelopment in Vienna. You're in the middle of it and there. That's exactly what it's all about, and you have to make it visible and show it. [[Abg. Krainer: This is a minority right!]] British writer Frederick Forsyth, the famous author of the thriller “Der Schakal” – yes, Mr. colleague, you too – once said: [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Krainer]] A democracy is like a pyramid of deletion paper. If you drop a drop of ink to the top, you can watch it spread slowly to the last angle. - Quote. The same is true of corruption. Corruption should and must be fought decisively by all here in the house in all areas of society, no matter where it occurs. Especially you are moralizing here and do not live it in your responsibilities, although exactly where you are ruling, for example in Carinthia, against the Red Captain Kaiser is determined. Yes, it also applies to emperors' presumption of innocence, as well as to Peter Pilz in the previously raised question. But for everyone else who is found out, you're already pronouncing a judicial prejudgment, which is not yours. This is exactly the moralizing with half-truths you keep living. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I also ask you, Mr Pilz: When are you finally ready to move out of the social housing as a heavy earner to finally make this apartment available to socially needy people? [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They pay a cheap rent and benefit the people and the social state as the best-serving national councillors! It is therefore essential in this country, of course, even if you experience this debate, to note that there is a need to change. They have made a contribution to this today. I thank you for that. They sometimes put political competitors on posters with animals. You have to be aware of that. If this had been done by another party – an insanity that would have been tried again! If you compare political competitors to posters with animals, I have to say, it is extremely tasteless. But I like it at least that you once define yourself as a little lame. This is at least once a living self-reflection. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Perhaps very briefly on Mr Spindelegger's comments from the ÖVP: If he's talking about plague and cholera, well, then you have to hold on: Maybe he's already feeling infested by the Ruhr; I don't know. But if artificially such terms are now defined, I must say: Every Austrian has seen the television duel between Faymann and Spindelegger. I mean, that wasn't a duel! That was a TV duet. They have footed under the table and have shown exactly what they intend to do, namely this self-belt, red and black, to continue to do. So I am grateful if you demand the change of chancellor today, because it can only be called that you support me, because you do not trust the locker yourself. So I say thanks to the ÖVP for this open-minded display. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, when we talk about corruption, we also need to maintain that corruption in the general system is immanent and, of course, corruption is just the kitt through which red and black have chained together for decades. You shouldn't forget that either. When you take the Steyr works: Well, at least interesting that this state-owned company was privatized at the time and that there were also privatization winners by handing it over to Mr. Stronach at the time, if you want to do so, to a bargain prize from the red Chancellor Vrannitzky, where the string could also benefit from it in a sub-area as a red friend and comrade and then find itself as a thank you of the former red Chancellor Vrannitzky at once in the Supervisory Board of Magna with millions ofgagen. – Well, if we are already talking about corruption – perhaps not in the criminal sense, but a custody is all that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there are many more examples that Peter Pilz has forgotten and in which he is blind on the left eye. There is a sharp example of how moralally rotten social democracy is, especially in the case of the biggest fraud scandal of Mr Madoff. This is where recent revelations involve a new topicality. In 2008, the Lehman-Pleite put the global financial bubble down, and a large American investor, Bernard Madoff, has mistrusted 65 billion US dollars and, of course, has severely shaken confidence in the banking world and in seriality. This billion scandal and its dirty sources also lead to the Austrian scene and also to Austrian domestic policy. More than €6 billion have been sluggished over this route and evaded in a fraudulent way. For years, leading SPÖ politicians and SPÖ bankers have also publicly courted one of the most dazzling figures in this network, namely Mrs Sonja Kohn, who was ultimately helped by the SPÖ and some SPÖ representatives to obtain a fast banking license. Large amounts of money have been misused by institutional investors and private pension provisions, and ultimately, in a fraudulent system, in bank Austria's own distribution companies on Cayman Islands. These are things that have occupied us not only since today, but since 2008. There are also clear main accused lists from the Americans and Liechtenstein. In the United States, among other things, Mr Randa is one of the main accusers. There are legal requests to the Austrian judicial system, but nothing has happened since 2008. I already have to ask the critical question why this is so. Ms Sonja Kohn is also a supporter of the great honour mark of the Republic of Austria. She has not only won the then red Chancellor Gusenbauer as an advertising and hanging sign for Bank Medici, but also the still active mayor Michael Häupl, who has advertised and performed for her and her bank house. This influence of the mayor of the city of Vienna has been used to pump money into the Madoff system, as we know today by journalists who have finally made it possible to reveal it. – Only this week a film by Kubicek was presented in Austria, which, among other things, filmed other films in Hollywood, but presented this system in this documentary – “In God We Trust” – and shows exactly that. An English cover journalist has also helped to make these links visible. Finally, it is high time that the prosecutor's office finally undertake investigations and the damaged investors come to their right. You've been waiting for it since 2008! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, the horror losses of the AVZ Foundation are also in question. These too must be made visible once in connection with this Madoff fraud system. This is Vienna's tax money! €1.7 billion have flown into this AVZ foundation, and today we know that the money is gone and less than €100 million is available. There is a lot to be learned when such developments take place and are demonstrated and demonstrated by journalists. That's exactly where you have to say that the Greens sit in a coalition with the SPÖ in Vienna and consciously exaggerate any kind of Enlightenment together with the SPÖ. Now, if this shows the English journalist Michael Leidig, I say: Don't cover that, open things up! You are involved in the largest fraud scandal in the Second Republic, and this will ultimately be unexplained – with a minority right, including as regards investigation committees. That's our right, that's what you promised us, but to this day you refuse the opposition. It is high time something happened so that you can no longer turn off such reconnaissance mechanisms. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:47]] [[14:47:05]] Mourning on the occasion of the to-death commemoration of two police officers and a rescue aneist during a mission
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e15803	Ladies and gentlemen, before I call the next speaker, I must inform you of a terrible event. The State Police Directorate Niederösterreich informs: In case of a bet against a suspected wilder shortly after midnight of the 17th. On September 2, two police officers and a sanitizer of rescue died after gunshot injuries. An officer of a string is missing. The suspect may have smacked in his house in a place near Melk. The police are present, the official act is under way. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two colleagues of the executive who are holding our heads and providing security in the country, who have died and can no longer return to their families. A paramedics who was on the road for someone who needed help has caught up with the same fate. Our gratitude and our respect apply to the victims and our compassion of their relatives. We wish that this tragic situation can be stopped without further bloodshed. I'm asking you for a sign of silence. [[Those present rise up from the seats and persist for some time in stupid mourning.]] Thank you. [[Those present take their seats again.]] [[14:49:30]] Continued urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e15852	Mr Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e15873	Mr President. We are deeply affected by the three victims and would like to express our greatest sympathy to the families concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate has once again shown that we basically do not have the necessary maturity here in the House, from such incidents as we have experienced in recent years, to draw the right and necessary conclusions. Corruption is something I condone to everyone in here that he condemns it, and where I believe that no one here has anything to do with it. But it must be in our own interest, ladies and gentlemen, that Coping with corruption and past incidents with all the consequence and absolute hardness. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I think it is extremely inappropriate to organise a party hack out of it, because it should be our greatest interest here to defend our profession, to save our honor and to ensure that such incidents, as we have shown and discussed them today, never happen again. The choice of words used here is also embarrassing and I think it is extremely worrying – also what Mr Vice-Chancellor said. Mr Kopf, I must say to Mr Cap: To compare two parties with a deadly disease has lost nothing in a democracy. That is also not worthy of democracy and therefore to reject it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am forwarding that we have taken all the necessary and necessary steps from the BZÖ to contribute to the investigation. When I became a party observer, I handed over all the documents that were accessible to us to the court and asked the court to clarify the whole thing. We were cooperative from the beginning. From the very beginning, we have made sure that the BZÖ is not spared from any premise, but that it is fully clarified. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like that to be the same with all the parties represented in Parliament! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that is also what we call for: to cover nothing, not to hide anything and not to hide anything! This also requires, ladies and gentlemen, that we all say yes to a committee of inquiry and that never again can a majority of red and black in the House simply turn a committee of inquiry if it does not seem appropriate to them any more. A committee of inquiry must be a right of opposition during the next legislative period in this House, and not a right of government parties to cover or turn away. [[I should like to congratulate the BZÖ and the Greens.]] I say this as an information because I have been directly addressed by Mr Pilz: Mr Pilz, I immediately transferred €960 000 to a trust account that is in the hands of a notary before the announcement of judgment in the Telekom process, where the BZÖ was not held at any time as an accuser. This money is no longer accessible to us. I already made that happen before the judgment. That's fair, that's honest and that's decent! – Just for information, Mr. Pilz! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And now we are waiting for the written version of the verdict. We don't know them yet. I learned what I know from the media. But it is only now that what is actually in the judgment is analysed, and then the further steps are taken by us. While all the other parties have been spared from justice, we have experienced the full hardness of justice. The full hardness! It was not spared, and it was not taken into account by anyone, Mrs Bundesminister, just as you said, but it was used as a beelzebub to hit the BZÖ. That's where the court was right. I do not say that was political justice, in no way, but I just want, Mrs. Federal Minister, that before the justice all parties have the same rights and obligations and do not have to pay a party for all. It can't be like that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For example, as a comparison, I take the procedure concerning the Mayor of Linz, who was spared by the Justice, where the spokesman of the Commercial Court of Linz has publicly announced, Mrs. Federal Minister – I quote literally –: “Since the entire Causa” – that is the Causa around the speculation losses in the capital city of Linz and the mayor Dobusch – “is also of political brisance, Richter Palisk will continue the survey of Dobusch and also the other Linz politicians only after the National Council elections (29. (b) the date on which the decision was taken; [[Öh-Rufe at BZÖ.]] “Before the elections, the agreement of all politicians would no longer be reached.” And this, Mrs. Federal Minister, is not special treatment for political parties, as you say? Are you sure? I would have expected an objection from you that all political parties should equally justify themselves before justice and not a political party alone. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative and necessary that at the beginning of the next legislative period, we set up a committee of inquiry which also deals with the painterries and the political developments surrounding the Hypo Alpe-Adria and the nationalisation of municipal credit and the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, where there have recently been a number of incidents that call for clarification. I would therefore like to call on all the political parties and all the honourable Members in the House to set up such an investigative committee during the next legislative period, today to make a declaration of honour that we will take this as the first step at the beginning of the next legislative period. This would be in the sense and in the interest of the Austrian population. I appeal to you not to cause and operate a political hack and not a squabbling in the House, but to make reckless information. That would be the task of the control body of the Austrian National Council! That's what we're calling for! And we have to do that too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e16027	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e16049	Mr President. High house! Also from my side the deep participation, especially for the victims and also for the survivors of those who work for us day after day, who risk their lives and who have died so meaninglessly and so tragically. My recognition of those who have to expect to die every day. My recognition to the police and to all those who make sure that every day they have to expect the same thing to happen to them, and who still stand out there and stand for us. They too are recognized and thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as with representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I am of course doing something difficult now to talk about the government and the elections that are coming, but since it is the subject today, I will also do this a little bit, but will not participate in mutual evasions, but simply ask why we are here today. Why do we have a special meeting today? – Many claim that this special session did not break anything, it only cost money and was ultimately a cutback for the citizen. I don't think so! I believe that this special meeting and tomorrow's special session are very important, because it is about something that is very important in democracy, namely, accounting. And let's look at what's happened over the past five years. We look at what the government has done and what is left behind. And we're looking at something else: We also look at how great the chances are that all that has been forgotten can then be implemented after the election. And that's, I think, the most important thing at all! After all, it is a matter of deciding for the voters: Can it go that way, with this constellation, or do we need a change? That's exactly what we should talk about! It's about finding out: Can this government, under this constellation, do all that it should do? We have the problem, for example in the field of pensions or in the field of administration, but also in the field of health and especially in the field of education. Who out there really thinks there's something going on? Are there any approaches? Has anything really got better over the past five years? [[Abg. Wenninger: Yes!]] Did something move? That's the central question! One considers – and it is almost all the experts in this opinion – that nothing has moved in these areas. [[Abg. Wininger: Incorrect!]] We may have implemented some of the big chunks that we have to deal with. And there have been – and that is true, Mr Cap – a number of decisions that we have taken together. But that was, as I said, very little of the whole cake, it was far too little compared to what is waiting for us, as the Court of Auditors said, for example in the field of pensions, in administration and especially in education. [[Abg. Krainer: 81 percent!]] [[Abg. Krainer: 81 percent!]] I'm not talking about health right now. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That means there are still huge mountains in trouble. And here is the question – and we have to clarify this question: Can a government of red and black do that? [[Abg. Heinzl: the death penalty!]] And you've already been threatened with red and black. I got it here! [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] Faymann threatens to reclaim the great coalition. He said he wanted a big coalition again after the election. Now I ask you: What should be better after the election if nothing is already implemented before the election? And tomorrow we will most likely hear that you will not even have the right to teach before the election. If you do not even bring about such Mickey-Mouse-reforms as the teacher service law before the election, after what will be better after the election, then what should change after the election?- Oh, my God! Albert Einstein once said: Whoever does the same thing, but other results expect, is stupid! I say: Whoever chooses the same thing, but expects politics to get better, is at least on the way! That can't work! How is it supposed to work when red and black come back together in the same constellation? How's something supposed to move? They're always saying you're pulling a rope. – Yes, that’s true, red and black pull on a strand, but in different directions. That's exactly the problem! And if, after the election, you simply continue as before, after what is to change to the positive? - I can't do that! And if the ÖVP as its only goal is to issue the chancellor change and make a button for it, I have to say: That's not what it says: We finally want safe pensions! And it's not on it either: We finally want to stop making debts! [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: But not on your either!]] It's not on it either: We want a proper education system, but the EIA is obviously only about taking the chancellor's position now. That's why the ÖVP is doing! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's what you want from the ÖVP! It's not about reforms at all! And if you don't believe it, you just have to look around. Let the last five years of Revue happen, then you will notice: That was a permanent mutual brake! SPÖ and ÖVP have slowed down each other. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Finally, nothing has gone on in the substantial things of this Republic. And then you ask yourself: Why is that so? Why is nothing going on? - I can tell you why. There is therefore nothing going on because, in fact, no red and black govern at all. It is not Mr Faymann and not Mr Spindelegger, but it is true that all those who are in the background are ruling at SPÖ: the lobbyists, the banks and, above all, the trade unions! The latter rule at SPÖ. And at the ÖVP, it is the alliances, but also the trade unions, the heads of state and as they all are called. I forgot to mention the chambers. They rule, and who else is there, such as raiffeisen. All those ruling in this country! And that's the problem! [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] In addition, at the ÖVP the structure is interwoven internally with the chambers and with the unions that in the end a government is not possible at all. And whoever does not believe this, let him listen to Mr. Spindelegger once. I will now present Mr Spindelegger in the original tone, what he said at an “Kurier” event. He referred to the problems in his party, and referred to the question: What do an ÖVP and SPÖ gathering have in common? The following jokes were made for the best: Both are yelling at the ÖVP! This joke has given Mr Spindelegger the best and has said two things: first of all, that the SPÖ is very much indignant about the ÖVP, which is peculiar in a coalition, and secondly, which is much worse, that even its own people are complaining about the ÖVP. – You could hear that from the mouth of a man who wants to be chancellor! And he also said – original tone – as I am next to Frank Stronach, so he stands next to Erwin Pröll. That's what he said before hundreds of witnesses. That is, he not only admits that there is only a dispute in the ÖVP, but he also says that he has the same power within the party as I do. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] But now many claim that I don't have much power in the party. So you can see the mind of this man's child. It's just him not to flick his Lord, Erwin Pröll, on the stuff! And in this constellation, do you want to continue ruling? [[towards ÖVP]] In this constellation, do you want to solve the pressing problems of our country after the election? [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] That can't work! And that's exactly the point! And you have to tell the voters that too! You have to tell voters outside that if they want a new policy, they will not be allowed to vote red and black again, otherwise everything will remain the way it is. Just as Einstein says: Whoever does the same thing, but other results are expected, is crazy! That means: We need new majorities! We finally need new majority in this House so that we can finally address the pressing problems of our country! The Court of Auditors has been saying for decades – for decades! – the same: It is all over, with pensions, in education, in administration, in health, we have problems everywhere! – But what do we do? - Nothing! We're wasting our future. And if we continue in this way, then we are waiting again for five years for policy in this country to get better. I can only ask everyone: Please do not choose red-black! Look for an alternative, because we need an alternative at last! We need new majorities away from red and black, otherwise we cannot change this country. You can't do that otherwise. In this constellation one cannot change the country. And I know that you want the same thing very discreetly: They also want new majorities! You too want new majorities! I see this in daily dealings when you do all kinds of unkindness to each other. It just doesn't work anymore. We really must manage to put new majority voting in this House. Then we can change this country too! And this country, as I mean, deserves change. And people outside also want something to move at last. And if you're always talking, [[towards ÖVP]] Yes, the SPÖ is blocking!, and when the SPÖ always argues on you and says: The ÖVP blocked!, then I have to say: It must finally stop! That is why we need new majorities! And I can only ask anyone: Create the possibility of new majority away from red and black! Then we can change this country. And that's what people want outside and what our country really needs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e16264	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e16285	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My group also has to take part in the case of members of the executive officials who have paid for their commitment to life. This is really a serious issue for me! The problem is just: We have to comment on our problem at this National Council meeting today, and the subject, Mr Lugar, is: New beginning without corruption! – You can talk about God and the world, but one should have learned to talk about the subject in the many years of school. New beginning without corruption can then be possible if you stand by what was in the past, and especially when you make up for what has been partly in the past, I must say, broken. But today I have not heard a single statement that the money is really repaid, that, apart from a trust account, the money you have illegally disbursed from companies that you have entered for yourself under a billing pretext, or that you have withdrawn the Republic or republican companies, is actually returning to the public hand, to the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! That would be the basic prerequisite for a new beginning, for a fair new start! And that's what it's all about! We want to bring you to our side with positive approaches, and, Mrs Minister, you have also shown a positive approach. You answered the individual questions in detail today, as you did then. They also responded in detail on November 2012. In between Unfortunately, it is also the usual malpractice of ministers, parliamentary written requests, to answer highly italically. I addressed exactly the same questions you were asked by us today to you in May, and in July I received a single line in response to each question: The investigations are not completed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Mrs Minister, if we are to take justice seriously, if we are to regain confidence in justice – I have also done so, and the way in which justice has also contributed to the examination committee, I stress this three times – if we demonstrate this trust, I also expect that you will reply to Parliamentarians individually, correctly in writing, and not only with the italic line: The investigations will continue. – So so much to political culture again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Here and today, Mrs. Minister, it's all right, thank you. I would normally expect this to happen when replying to a normal question. Now back to the topic: What you have repeatedly addressed with your legal processing steps, with the investigation steps, has been summarized by my colleagues with a summary word, with the collective word: systematic corruption. And our concern is, therefore, that this systematic corruption, which has become involved by habits, by habits, by customs, finally ceases to be ending with writing bedding letters to the ÖIAG or to Telekom or to the ÖBB or to someone else: Please give us money for our party organs! Give us money for our magazines! Give us money for our publications! We need a donation there and there! We need something! And because we need it and you can't go to the Supervisory Board, because otherwise we wouldn't get it, we have to make bills. This has been the instrument of systematic corruption, and this must be done once and for all! And there's only one way, ladies and gentlemen, that's control. [[Abg. Wheeler: Bla, bla, bla!]] – You yourself say “bla, bla, bla” to what you say. Thank you. [[Abg. May. Kogler: I do!]] Systematic control can be carried out by this Parliament if it has the instrument to do so. And here we agree on the opposition, on the paper also agree across the government parties: This control then works if, on the one hand, there is a committee of inquiry as a minority law, and on the other hand, this control works if the Court of Auditors can work to the fullest extent. But the Court of Auditors is disabled twice: First of all, he does not have the duty of truth. We can change that at any time, at any time, and at any time we can change the Court of Auditors' law and finally introduce the obligation of truth to the Court of Auditors. Secondly, the Court of Auditors has been severely restricted by you, it has been cut short, and it has therefore been severely impeded in its ability to act. And we do not like that as parliamentarians! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And therefore: on the one hand, the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law, the signatures are given, only the redemption Redemption would now be possible as a realistic step, as a real signaling for a new beginning. Let the control work to the full! We are in favour of also changing the Rules of Procedure of the Committee of Inquiry, no question, I have said that again and again. You have to be able to work properly, to the fullest extent. And give back to the Court of Auditors the possibilities he had in part, or at least introduce the duty of truth! Mrs. Minister, you are right: It is not only about confidence in justice, it is also about confidence in politics; and this is when control works when people are sure that on the one hand the assets of the Republic are properly managed and not thrown away with commissions and real estate transactions, and on the other hand, the budgetary resources that advertising resources are used properly and are not abused for personal publicity – and not even the climate fund – of the climate fund! – the milk cow, on the one hand the Ministry of Transport and on the other the Ministry of Agriculture, on the other. Mrs Minister, thank you for the communication that is being determined. I am glad that it is being determined that I just want to see an end to the flag rod soon, because we need the money in other areas. The corruption money was wasted, we needed it urgently to improve care. I have now taken a quick look at the €1.2 billion found in the corruption investigation committee as a lack of money, we could have cared for the entire nursing pensioners in the city of Vienna for one year for free. Locker! With the money we could have provided kindergartens, certainly in the three-digit area, for years free. With this money, we could have implemented the education reform for a long time, and with the money, research and development would finally have gone a little further. But it was under control because you did not want to, no investigation committee during Black-Blue, and the Court of Auditors was deprived of opportunities and still did not take the consequences that are urgently necessary so that we could use the money of the people, the property of the Republic for the benefit of all – and not for the food of media agencies that then have a pot of ÖVP over three detours, possibly a pot of SPÖ, perhaps once a pot of FPÖ, and where from the taxpayers, from the funds, from the corporate funds, individual parties are then collected and determined in an opinion: Seems to me that he's billing for a bill of credit. Mrs Minister, I wish that the judicial system on the path she has taken is moving faster – this will be done in detail by Mr Steinhauser – and I particularly hope that the written response culture will be improved, and I wish you all finally to understand that the re-start is also related to repayments. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e16368	Mr Jarolim has been mentioned as the next speaker. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e16389	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. It has just been spread through the news agencies that the third police officer – that is the hostages taken – has been found dead. It has already been said today, I think that each one of us feels the same way, and I would like to express my condolences for the families here again. Yes, we have a discussion on corruption here, and I am actually very happy that we have succeeded in making a great deal of effort, that we are really very open to the discussions here, but still in a way that should be handled by each other, if you may be a partner again later. I hope that this will also apply to the rest of the time of the election campaign. Now here to call plague and cholera – I don't think that should be. I do not think it should be so if a group of our parties put forward a proposal that we all have been discussing for a long time, namely the reduction of wage tax, income tax up to €4,000, that we are talking about a lazy proposal here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Let us sit together and discuss things that are necessary for the future! That is what I mean now with regard to the Committee of Inquiry, which has already been tailor-made several times. To correct the rule of the FPÖ: In Vienna is the investigative committee a minority right, and I think it would also be reasonable and very good for democracy and our dealings with each other, if the same would be possible in this House, because many things would change. I think we need to discuss this together. That is something we should decide by a very large majority, and I also have good hope there. The Madoff case and the AVZ were also addressed. I would just like to say briefly that it is completely absurd to put an approach, as Mr Strache said, to social democracy to the AVZ. I would also like to say that the AVZ is a foundation, an independent legal entity in which no tax funds are involved. On the contrary! From this foundation, substantial amounts are transferred into research. This essentially accomplishes a very good purpose. [[Call to the FPÖ:It's just no money!]] Mrs Bundesminister, I would, however, like to turn to you on the question of this button in the form of a request, because I think this is also very inappropriate. I believe that everyone knows our proposal that, in order to avoid any suspicion of a party, even the head of guidance, namely the chief of the prosecutors, so who really is in the final consequence of the prosecutors, whether to be accused or not, does not belong to a political office in the Ministry of Justice. And with such a button you make this suspicion or allegation, for example, how it should not be. Therefore, I also believe that if we are already having such critical discussions, we should deal with a little more sensitiveness. In the meantime, Mr Cap has already mentioned this, we have done the following: We have adopted the transparency package, the Party Law, we have done a lot of that, almost unanimously every time we have known that we can deal with problems for the future, because we are looking back on a very, very inconvenient past that is now being worked up very slowly by the courts. And the last convictions made at considerable punishments – if I look at it, three and a half, four, five years, even in Carinthia – show that the judicial system is now truly committed accordingly. And we should do everything we can to make available the relevant resources here, Mrs Federal Minister. We know the prosecutors are absolutely overwhelmed, they have too few staff. For example, if we were to put more staff into the levying of amounts from criminal offences, that would even be a source of revenue. I believe that we can do many things to speed up and thus represent the efficiency of the state. So I think that today's discussion has shown a lot of goodwill from all sides, and I am very hopeful that, if not in this, then in the next legislative period, we will continue a nice step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e16431	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e16452	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. It is my view that no representative of the Committee on Justice has taken the floor so far in a urgent request from the Greens to the Minister for Justice. And you know me, I'm a person who sees himself very committed to the subject matter. But of course this suggests that the Greens are not concerned with dealing with a subject matter, but with political campaigning, otherwise the Justice Committee would have been talking for a long time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If I have my colleague Pilz in front of me: It is an unheard-of measure of self-congratulation and superiority that he has shown today with his contribution to the debate. Now I have been in this House for ten years, but I have not yet experienced such an arrogance and had also hoped to never have to experience it here. I would like to pay tribute to Mr Pilz, but also to others from the Green Group, a book by Vittorio Hösle, who wrote a very interesting deal about concrete political ethics. This is a key point – I quote it –: To raise a moral claim, but to argue with half-truths, suspicions and premises poses a serious danger to any democratic culture. - Quote. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Bravo! The Hoesle is a good man!]] And I would ask you to think about it today in this debate. [[Abg. Brosz: Did you hear the talk about the head?]] And another note – the colleague Moser is a humanistically educated colleague, sometimes we see each other in Ohlsdorf in the Thomas-Bernhard-Haus: How did the gods of ancient times most surely corrupt people? - By beating him with Hybris. And now, if I have the words of my colleague Pilz in my ear: This is Hybris, but not the gods will destroy him, but the voters, and that on the 29th. September. [[Abg. Brosz: Did you hear the talk about the head?]] But it also says: Whoever is without error, throw the first stone! [[Abg. Oils: We do not throw stones!]] And now I ask colleagues Pilz and the other Greens: What do you call this in Vienna, when the Greens – the Eastern Greens, from me – decide with ÖVP and FPÖ to reform their electoral rights as long as they are in opposition to reform the deeply unjust electoral arythm of Vienna, which has a notarial act, but they are hardly in power, they are no longer talking about it?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: (Ironian hustle and bustle of the) West-Green, East-Green!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ollinger and Dr. Moser.]] Leave You quote me to your Wiener Klubobmann Ellensohn: “The direction of impact was correct in many respects, but what three people signed is not binding on everyone else.” – Is that arrogance?, Prepotence?, Hybris? Or this driving over the population: at the Parkpickerl, in the Mariahilfer Straße, where total chaos exists, where millions of scarce taxpayers are wasted. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Go, please!]] [[Abg. May. Korun: The topic of corruption!]] Those who have always done everything before their power to listen – Mr Kogler, you have spoken, please calm down now, and then we can discuss it further afterwards! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Say something about black corruption!]] They use millions for it, for this chaos, but they ignore what they used to represent, namely people's participation and citizens' co-determination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Make a senseful listening! It's about corruption!]] What do you call that? Abuse of power? What do you call this, Mr Kogler, when the Greens, although colleague Glavischnig, said that chewing machines should be banned on their way to school and smoking should be an unhealthy, soft drug release? Is that arrogance? Is that prepotence? Is that hybris? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] And I simply conclude to think with a quote from the liberal English Prime Minister Gladstone. Gladstone said: “What’s morally wrong can’t be right politically.” And with another quote from Max Weber, who said: Three important qualities are said to have a politician: physical passion, sense of responsibility, a distanced eye. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's incredible!]] Two and three I don't notice with the Greens today. Please learn this on occasion!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e16660	Next item is the report by Mr Kickl. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e16681	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has been said a lot about the fight against corruption today. The question of credibility has been raised, and very, very often, the green sector has come up with the call that it should be repaid. It all sounds quite beautiful to hear from representatives of the Green Group here in the House, but if you do the worst thing elsewhere in this country, as it looks, if the Greens are there somewhere, if they are in a coalition, as they then act, then it looks a little different. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I brought you two examples, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know what that is? – These are SPÖ listings from the last election campaign in Carinthia. [[The speaker shows two ads.]] These are SPÖ listings, funded by the SPÖ Club, by the SPÖ Country Day Club, but the Lord, who is on it, is not a member of the Landtagsclub, but that was Peter Kaiser, the then head of state, – that is, the same thing we now have with the posters at the federal level. So I'd say that's an abuse of the money that's been spent on it, that's a misuse and illegal use. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And today the Greens have said this a few times: You have to pay back there, you have to pay back and you have to pay back there! – After exactly such a request for repayment we have made in the Carinthian Landtag. That's easy to say: The Federal Court of Auditors is asked to ensure that – I am a little off – the SPÖ Landtagsklub in Carinthia will be returned to the country of Carinthia in the course of the election campaign, in accordance with the provisions of the Party Promotion Act. - Quote. It is likely that the request will come from a wrong sender somewhere, because the Green Group in the Carinthian Landtag has, of course, rejected this request, ladies and gentlemen. [[Oh-Rufe at the FPÖ and acclaim of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And then you see how far it is with what you're saying in here. It does not stand the worst of a burden in a coalition, and that is the accusation you have to make: that you preach here in something different than you do outside, if you have finally brought it into a coalition after years of hedgery and are allowed to play the majority, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the problem of your fight against corruption. Your fight against corruption is one-dimensional, with some of you probably also simple, with some it will be a mixture. One could also speak of a limited horizon of the greens in connection with the fight against corruption, if it would not forbid my good childhood. That is the situation, that is the actual situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] Mr Pilz shows what it is all about when he comes out here, in the manner of a Stalinist display process, when he jumps around there and points to everyone with his fingers and asks for anything – from a position he hopefully will never have, otherwise it will become really dangerous for anyone who thinks otherwise, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am going to explain to you this inconsistency of the green anti-corruption. Where the ideological opponent is concerned, the fact can still be so thin, there the whole can still be so limited, there everything doesn't matter, there will be thrown out on devils coming out, padded and pursued. This is the one side of the green fight against corruption, ladies and gentlemen, and with this the greens are particularly intense. This is also the reason why there are no more election themes for them. Everything else doesn't matter to them. What does the Greens in this country care about the suffering of pensioners? - We've seen it in the last few weeks, that's all they want: Mr Oellinger himself has said that poverty and unemployment, which is not a green issue. The Group is not present. No, we hunt a few supposed Nazis and otherwise we make ideologically motivated anti-corruption. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] If we continue to think about it: The need of the Austrian families is also not a topic of the Greens. Have you ever heard anything about it? - No! Ghostbusters they are on Facebook, that is employment, and the second employment is the fight against corruption, but not in a comprehensive sense, but behind scams and always considering who might be in question as a coalition partner. – This is their access to things. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Anyone who has been careful in the debate today will have noticed that although they have mentioned the Reds at some point by the way with a carpet dealer, they have not received a single word on this red corruption nest, of which they are now part in Vienna. It's going to be adventurous, and it smells everyone against the wind that smells huge, ladies and gentlemen. You can read this from any corruption expert. [[Abg. May. Honey: Can you sleep well with all that you're telling here?]] Where, then, is corruption at best flourishing and flourishing? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Where there is no control!]] – Where there are over years and decades of absolute majority. This is the ground for corruption, for the economy of friends, for nepotism, for this whole horrific whole package, including transparency. Where do we have this in Austria? – We have it in the red Vienna – now with green participation – and we have it in the black Lower Austria. [[Call the SPÖ:cheuch!]] The one side you see, the second side lets you completely hidden out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Maybe I need to put this in your jargon, ladies and gentlemen: Such a climate of the absolute majority is, after all, the feeding ground, even a greenhouse for political corruption. But what happens from the moment that the Greens are part of this majority in the Town Hall, where they sit with Mr Häupl and rejoice that they can also put their feet under the table of government responsibility? [[Abg. Mayerhofer: There's chaos!]] – Silence in the forest, ladies and gentlemen! Then, in the matter of anti-corruption, the eco-principle – let grass grow above it – is applied, and then suddenly become a cover. It's not that easy to get into this dirt that You can tell the population that you really mean it. They are talking about a comprehensive approach, but they fail everywhere where corruption in this country is driving the biggest blossoms. This is probably also an ecological access on the part of the Greens, especially to maintain corruption flowers, because one is in this coalition. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then I'll tell you something: I don't know if you're still coming out to the people in Vienna, maybe you'll sometimes have the opportunity to do so if you don't just turn down bike paths or plant some barges of traffic policy in the middle of the city. [[Abg. New builder: Mahü!]] Elsewhere, walls that run through cities are torn down, you build traffic-political walls in the middle of a city. It's crazy what you're doing here! But that obviously belongs to your concept of driving. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you went out, then you would hear – even you have to hear – that starting with the award of a booth on any market, the award of any orders in the area of the community – we call it housing renovations or anything else – over the large projects that prove to be the first time other than millions of graves, to the great scandals in the banking and speculation business the red law “One hand washes the other” applies. However, the two hands that wash each other will not be cleaners. Since they were sitting in the government in Vienna, I haven't heard from the Greens yet when it comes to information. I have not yet heard that Mr Häupl would be given the Wadln, just as they do not inform the SPÖ of the Wadln. I am not so sure about the ÖVP either, because in reality – and I have to say that quite honestly – they are more in the back of these two parties than the Austrian population can love, and that for months now, because they can't expect to become part of this government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A word to my colleague Pilz. He's the chief fighter against corruption. I now ask the Minister of Justice – simply as a start to thinking – whether it is also a form of corruption if someone is going to house in the public with any documentation from investigation procedures to which he, I do not know how, comes. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One might suspect that even there one hand washes the other. Obviously, your authorities are about as close as the noodle sieve that Mr. Alm, your former PR consultant, took up. I would ask myself whether we do not have a form of corruption here too, because in the end these documents have their place in these investigation procedures for the reasons you mentioned today. If someone is constantly making use of them to have particularly good access, especially to know a lot, especially to have brilliant documents from these investigations, then I would suspect that we are also dealing with a form of corruption here. Here too, from my point of view, one should look more closely. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A word on the credibility of the Greens at federal level. You have to break this up on the tongue, too: There, individual parties are accused of corruption, but the Greens do not have a problem with the German Chancellor Faymann to form a coalition. This is precisely the wishful chancellor of this Green Group. Is this the same Faymann with the posters? Is that the one with the 7 million for the Werner, is that it? Is that the one who didn't want to go to the investigation committee? A pattern of transparency, a pattern image of the Enlightenment! Is this Werner Faymann, with whom you want to shape the future of Austria? I can only say, ladies and gentlemen, good night, Austria, if this is your future model, and good night, as regards the credibility of the Greens in terms of anti-corruption and transparency.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e16875	Ladies and gentlemen, for the claim that the Greens are ‘inwards’ of the two government parties, I give you a call for order. [[Cheerfulness with Greens and ÖVP.]] Mr Grosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. 5 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e16910	High house! I'm actually laughing today. The Austria Press Agency informs us that in Lower Austria the fourth death victim is to be complained. Three police officers and a rescue agent had to live for us today, for the general public in Austria, and to put their families before terrible weeks, months and years. Ladies and gentlemen! Today shows us how important a human life is and where the real problems lie in Austria. Today's events show us how important our own health is, how important happiness is, but also how important the protection and security of those people who sacrifice their lives for us in our country. The events show us what dangers the Austrian executive officials are exposed to in their daily service and what risks they face their families. I therefore find it quite embarrassing for this Republic and this election campaign that the major topics and the major problems with which the Austrian executive approach us as a responsibility every day does not play a role in the future perspective and in the visions of Austrian politics. It is about people who are here for us who expect answers from politics, but do not get answers, ladies and gentlemen. That's blamable. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Although I too, like many other speakers, find it very difficult to find some normal access to this debate in the face of the tragedy of today and the many tragedies of recent years and decades in which Austrian officials and volunteer workers have died, it is nevertheless necessary to hold this debate in this House. However, this discussion must not be conducted as you, ladies and gentlemen of all political groups, do by taking the blame to hand in the work of corruption in Austria – these harmful poisons for our society, for our economy and for our policies – and by defilement of others, while disregarding the old saying “Who throws dirt, on which also dirt sticks”, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Na bumm!]] This parliamentary discussion on the essential chapter “Corruption in this country and how we fight it” shows that the Austrian National Council lacks the necessary maturity in its expiry period to find answers to corruption in our country. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: I said that!]] A whole legislative period – five years – was under the sign of scandals and under the sign of criminals who should belong to the political past: Telekom process, Strasser case, Martinz, Causa Birnbacher, the Enlightenment of the emergency nationalisation of the Hypo under Minister of Finance Pröll, who is sitting in the Raiffeisen group today and who is in cash there, illegal party promotions – and not those who are already judicial or where the chapter God is thankfully closed – such as to the Forum Land or to the ÖAAB. All of this we must clarify, the political consequences of it. So today, Josef Bucher called for us to set up a permanent committee of inquiry to combat political corruption in our country. I am sorry that no one has responded to this proposal. In response to a minister of justice who called a year ago for the division, the crime settlement for corruption crimes, I demand that we abolish the shackles for corruptionists. I demand that there be more severe prison sentences for corrupt people in our country and for corrupt politicians than three months to walk in the park, ladies and gentlemen! I demand that we finally increase the prison framework for corruption in this country in such a way that corruption is no longer a cavalier’s crime, which can then be smiled into the coloirs of this Parliament in sad two- and threesomeness, but that the people at the end of the day after the fight against corruption have confidence in the population and in their responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen! To do this, we need appropriate measures that we are proposing once again: stricter prison sentences, no shackles for corruptionists, a permanent committee of inquiry and a comprehensive debate on the subject. How to deal with corruption also shows the consequences of one or another. Josef Bucher and the BZÖ have made rasa in the BZÖ tabula, openly and offensively contributed to the Enlightenment. I miss that with many other parties. In the last few days I have received a brochure from the Austrian People's Party in my household, where on the front page the Deputy Chancellor is shown and on page 2 the Minister of Justice. [[The speaker keeps the current edition of the ÖVP magazine “AustriaPlus” up to date and shows various pages from it throughout the course.]] At the same time, the magazine contains: Council of the ÖIAG-owned Post, although we have here in Parliament passed a party law, according to the state-in-state undertaking, no party donations are allowed to be delivered to the parties. This law is now bypassed by switching off the post ads in the ÖVP party newspaper. That was not the meaning and purpose of the law with which we wanted to separate politics from the economy. On the next page, in old manner – and here I am with my previous speakers – I find an advertisement of the Raiffeisen group – that raiffeisen group, which the Austrian People's Party has helped with a bank package out of the patch so that the managers there can take off their big profits. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the humility and self-evidentness we want on the day of today's debate when we want to fight corruption in our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party and honourable Mrs Minister of Justice, we need a more stringent Minister of Justice, a more stringent minister, who is taking a tougher course in this field and who does not tolerate a little bit with his own photo, which is morally objectionable. Ladies and gentlemen, there is therefore a need to restart, tabula rasa must be done with the past, at all levels at all levels, without regard to losses. Then, hopefully, this issue of corruption will soon be dealt with for us and for the people of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e16981	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Schenk. 6 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17002	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At this point I too would like to express my concern at the events in Lower Austria. I have police officers myself in the circle of friends and families, and it makes me all the more affected when I hear or read what happened today. I would like to express my sincere condolences to the families, to the relatives in this place. On today's special meeting and on corruption: My previous speakers have already done a lot, the Greens have decorated this urgent request with all the key points, facts and facts. Corruption has many faces. Corruption affects many areas. But corruption is also, Mrs. Minister, if politicians and journalists have files and boast of files that they can only have received under violation of official secrecy or by taking office abuse. We should deal with this problem and solve it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! People often wonder how certain documents come to the newspapers in the media. How can non-affected persons, politicians and, above all, journalists have documents that are subject to the obligation of confidentiality that are not intended for the public? This too is an area of corruption that needs to be addressed. Mrs Minister, I should like to ask you to stand up for this and also the next government respectfully ask the ladies and gentlemen, who will then be responsible in the Ministry of Justice – perhaps we too – to do so. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Corruption – unfortunately – moves like a red thread through the political landscape. And corruption does not make it easier for politicians either. Policymakers also have a bad image through corruption. If I can remember the economy of friends, the party book industry, the post office chess, the concealment and transparency, especially in the case of red and black, ladies and gentlemen, then I can only say that is not in the sense of taxpayers. Here something is done or done to show things that are not to be blamed and that the population cannot be liked either. We are here to make policy for Austrians and taxpayers. However, there remain those on the track who bear the main burden in society, namely the entrepreneurs who create jobs. These ensure that the economy lives. The families also suffer more and more burdens and are not relieved. The care sector also suffers: The need for care has been punished by the Federal Government with the difficulty of increasing the access criteria to the care allowance, and the number of hours spent in the care stages 1 and 2 has been increased. However, the care allowance, which has been available since 1992, has not been increased. It wasn't raised. Education, health, pensions are all open construction sites. At today's special meeting, as in tomorrow's and next week's meeting, we must draw a summary of what this Federal Government has done, what it has not done and what is still open construction sites. Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to God, the citizens do not like everything anymore. I would particularly like to mention Styria. You know, there are the community mergers and there are also forced mergers. In Styria, about 120 municipalities, mayors and mayors have joined forces against this forced fusion, which can no longer be liked and also appear openly in the election campaign against red and black, calling for the election boycott. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] These mayors leave behind They do not like this because they represent their citizens in the communities and because they say: It's over! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The corruption is also part of the friendly economy. What about those communities that have a good wire to the government, who may know a council of states? – They don’t have to make the forced fusion! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it is! There must be the same rules for all. We also support this community initiative in Styria because we cannot pass over the people. We absolutely do not accept that. Mr Cap has today referred to the 647 laws adopted here in the House – partly unanimously, partly with other majority groups. Laws are good and right, but too many laws bring exactly the opposite. In addition, if you make laws, you should also comply with them. Mr Cap, perhaps you can lend and listen to one of your two ears. You have addressed the Transparency Act. I am quite with you when you say that it is good and important that we have made this law that we have decided here. Only, how does it look about the implementation, when advance organisations, by-organisations of the SPÖ announce a withdrawal from the party, because they want to have nothing to do with the related fundraising? This has happened with the nature lovers, with the work organisation for sport and body culture, with the workers-samariter-bund. Mr Cap, perhaps you can interrupt your little brother-in-law and then give me an answer to the question of how seriously you take it with your own laws, respectfully how seriously it takes your own group with your own laws, if you simply don't want to be there as a precursor organisation or by-organization when it comes to disclosure and transparency. Finally, I would also like to say clearly and clearly that the Stronach team is a guarantee of transparency, truth and fairness, ladies and gentlemen. It is not just our three key words, but we live this too, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I have heard many speeches on this issue today, but hardly, respectfully no proposals for solutions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Neubauer and Dr. Rosenkranz.]] In this context, I would like to make a motion for a resolution on political liability, because it cannot be possible for politicians to simply spend the money of taxpayers, toss it, toss it, to speculate somewhere and not to bear any liability, no sanctions whatsoever. It can't be. I should also like to ask you to support this motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good, important and correct proposal in the right direction, and I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17118	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17182	Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17203	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ms. Minister of Justice! High house! Mrs. Schenk, you have actually learned relatively quickly for a new opposition party: One creates reforms, just as it happened in Styria, and one at a time one is against the reforms. First, place the reforms, and if they are implemented in a reform partnership that has not existed since the Second Republic, support the electoral boycott in the Styria. That was very interesting. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Schenk, there has also been an interesting issue of your clubman Lugar today. I thought we might hear in his speech what he meant. I didn't hear about that. And of you, I haven't heard anything about this party ban that the Stronach team calls for. Your broadcast also says that the Stronach team will of course no longer accept any donations from Stronach as soon as the state party promotion is obtained after the election. Now I'm just wondering how this argument can be maintained after you've already received €1.42 million of club promotion. And if you add the infrastructure and personnel costs in the club and in the Parliament, you are now € 2 million, in addition to your funding. I therefore believe that you should consider your line of argument once again, so how you want to solve this in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Overall, the debate was extremely interesting today. Mr Strache dreamed of a chancellorship, he probably went back to sleep and dreams of this dream. [[Abg. New builder: He will wake you up tonight!]] Mr Kickl, who is no longer in the hall, has held up ads of the Carinthian election. It's probably a problem, elections are now hurting, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, and this soul hygiene is yours today, during this special session. [[Abg. Neubauer: Where is the colleague Gartlehner? He's missing us a lot today!]] Mr Klubobmann Bucher accepts justice only if it is in the sense of BZÖ, and I have already done a lot to Mr Lugar. But why does corruption have so much to do with us in recent months and years? What really is the root of this evil? – The root, ladies and gentlemen, is the time of the black and blue government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is the time, as the motto: More private, less state! the Republic of Austria has become a self-service shop for a few. In the “standard” online there is an interesting reader’s comment about what black and blue actually cost us: If you add the hypo in Carinthia, the Eurofighters, the BUWOG, Telekom, Immofinanz – not to mention the homepage Grasser, the police radio TETRON or the citizenship deal – then the taxpayer, the taxpayer, has already borne at least €17 billion in costs that this black and blue government has caused. Mr Grosz has already quoted this brochure from the ÖVP, but for me page 2 was interesting where Secretary-General Hannes Rauch mentions that it would be Harakiri for Austria if we had a red finance minister. . I am just saying that a new edition of black and blue would be Harakiri for Austria, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17271	The next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17293	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pilz is now giving us the opportunity to talk about corruption and the fight against corruption. However, he himself and Mrs Moser have not lost a single word on the consequences that we have drawn from the Committee of Inquiry and have already implemented. Many of my previous speakers have addressed these issues, including the Federal Minister, such as the increase in human resources in the corruption prosecutor's office. And in fact, the procedures, the charges and convictions in recent weeks and months have also shown that we can have confidence in justice. With the Stronach team, it has been very exciting today, my predecessor has already mentioned, with her demand for administrative reform, with the driving of teachers' workers as far as teacher service law is concerned, with her demand for a combination of social security funds – it would have been taken over everywhere, the Stronach team would have something to talk about. And now, in the reform of a government that really is considered a reform government in Styria, one is rowing back and saying that one cannot pass over the communities. – I think you should Rethink your electoral program once more! On the topic “The root of all evils in corruption is black and blue”, Mrs Steßl-Mühlbacher said: We were both in the committee of inquiry and both of us very intensively involved in the investigation. I'm asking you now: What is the point of Mr Kurt Gartlehner, who no longer has the SPÖ's telecomputors to deal with black and blue? Or what do the “7 million for Werner” have to do with the ad affair Faymann with black and blue? Or what do the friendly economy in Vienna and the 30 million € Advertisers, who are also tolerated by the Greens in Vienna, the Echo publishing house and many other things to do with black and blue? I would come at my own door before I would always pass over black-blue and the time black-blue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to the Greens: Honestly, Mrs. Moser, I have always appreciated you. As chairman of the Committee of Inquiry, they were at the outset very much seeking impartial and proper presidency until it came to such an extent that Mr Pilz apparently did not appear to be good enough and that everything that had not even been properly reached in secret documents in the clubs had already been passed on to journalists at standing press conferences outside the committee's premises. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] – Mr Kogler, you were not at all in the Committee of Inquiry, so please do not speak with me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When it suddenly became too colorful for Mr Pilz, because four parliamentary parties – the Stronach team, at that time, there was nothing to thank God, not yet – even Mr Petzner and Mr Rosenkranz, were of the opinion that, for example, we should stop producing files over the summer or that, in the case of negotiated chapters, there is no longer any record supplies, so that Mr Pilz can no longer play material parts on the media again, the Moser of Mr Pilz has even been tempted by Mr Pilz to falsify a protocol. And what did that mean in the end? – That Mrs Moser's good [[Abg. May. Kogler: Empathetic!]] It lost its reputation and had to give its own chair in the committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Incredible!]] And if you ignore this, Mr Pilz, I am really sorry for Mrs Glavischnig, because there are many – [[Abg. May. Kogler: That you give up for such a scrap!]] I was in the investigation committee myself, Mr Kogler, and you do not need to tell me how it happened there. I met both people, and I very much appreciated Mrs Moser. But if you allow Mr Pilz to float through the committee's room with the nose ring, then you are to blame yourself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And I am sorry to Mrs Glawischnig for not being able to carry out an election campaign on matters, but for sitting with Mr Pilz on the fur and being inhibited by it, because the colleague Pilz only wants to criminalise and has a double morale. Look at Vienna, what happens when the Greens are on the row!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17393	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. 6 minutes speaking time. The remaining speaking time of the Group is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17415	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In turn, the call for a call has developed to a low point. Let's get to the point. Mr Ikrath first called for the members of the Committee on Justice to take part in the discussion. As a member of the Committee on Justice, I would have liked to prove it to him personally, but he will probably now listen to this speech in some other place. Let us first come to this urgent question tabled by Peter Pilz, Gabriela Moser, colleagues, but at least by the two. Already in the explanatory statement is a beautiful sentence inside. Where is your long-term, short-term or mid-term memory when you write here about a perception by saying that SPÖ and ÖVP have strangled the investigation committee with the help of the FPÖ because they still had too much to hide? Where did the FPÖ participate in a rounding out of the Committee of Inquiry? Should you not remember who voted against the end of the investigation committee? The FPÖ was there, of course. I, as chairman, according to your inability, Mrs Moser, to lead a committee, which then had to lead it afterwards, can remind me quite clearly. They were the ones who did not allow parliamentarians of this House to vote on requests from parliamentarians just because they did not fit into your mind. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Moser, as by chance Mr Graf is sitting there: If, at some point, Mr President Graf had not received a request from the Greens at his presidency because he did not like it, you would have been the first to put on any body again, with the inscription of who is whose shame. I'll tell you one thing: You have provided a bear service in this committee of inquiry of democracy and the concept of democracy of the Greens, just as you have concluded that committee where you simply have not allowed fundamental rights of parliamentarians who cannot defend themselves who have no authority. [[ongoing applause with FPÖ and ÖVP]] - Unheard of! And you don't need to write in here that the FPÖ would have had anything to do with the Committee's turning off. It's simple and very wrong. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But maybe something else can turn out. There was once a statesman – I think some in social democracy can still remember him, and it would be better if you remembered him more – Bruno Kreisky, who said: Learn History – Mr. Editor! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Mr. Editor!]] And the Greens pretend that corruption has been a matter since yesterday, for a few hours. Take a look at the story: AKH, Noricum, Lucona, “Consum”, BAWAG. – All of this is corruption, because there is probably corruption since there have been people. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Always the greens have revealed it!]] There should be no excuse, but as many have said here: We assume that all who sit here have nothing to do with corruption accusations personally. That's what I'm going to assume. A few points have appeared here, including the question of the ability of people to buy, the question of greed. That is why we now have an additional sentence on the Stronach team, where Mr. Klubobmann Lugar today called for an end to the party donation. – This is probably the staircase of history, a Frank Stronach, who says from the outset: [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] I do not adhere to Austrian laws, namely party financing and transparency laws, to election cost restrictions. I don't think from the outset of these €7 million, the whole penalty I'm paying out of the post office. – That's not how it's going! And how do you actually do it when you're on it? – Lower Austria has decided on clear party funding. The parties that are in the Landtag receive party financing, and those who do not get in, do not receive, but the election cost refund. What's the Stronach team doing? - They both want to. That's the truth. They have requested it, and a rejection has been granted to it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To the Hypo Alpe-Adria I tell you something that was also on the verge of the process yesterday and was not mentioned here: The Bayerische Bank as a parent bank has deducted overliquidity and then sent this bank to ruin. And in the end, this emergency state relief was nothing more than the CSU's call for help before country elections, just to pee on FPÖ and BZÖ in any form or to make the appropriate advertising of election. The “FORMAT” has quite a list of this. I'll tell you one thing: As an Austrian taxpayer, I am not prepared to produce only an Austrian tax schilling in Bavaria for the election success of the CSU. That's not our business, but that's what Sepp Pröll did. One reason and reason for corruption in Austria at all – and this must be fought alongside others – is that we have sent the party book economy, which Postenschacher especially in state and sub-state enterprises. If there were not parties-dependent people inside – an example is this Mr. Fischer in the front room of the Telekom, where you could order everything you wanted – if there were no party political felt, you wouldn't have been so easy. It has even been mentioned by the judiciary. You have to restore full confidence in justice, even in the SPÖ's 2013 election programme on page 18 – if someone is really interested in it. However, if this full confidence looks like this – Mr Gartlehner and Mrs Rudas have also been referred to by Telekom – that is not a secret – that there is a choice among law practitioners, one must make a choice and also encourage the young comrades to go to the judicial service, then I must say: We do not need such a justice according to BSA patterns! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the €600 000 mentioned for the FPÖ: Mr Pilz, it is quite surprising that you can't take your party political scams in an intellectual fairness here. All the institutions of the FPÖ, the FPÖ-Federal Managing Director at the time and the FPÖ-Finanzferent, have been acquitted in this procedure by the accusation of infidelity. That means that this is just a so-called levy that the judge has meant, that will be already. So to pay something you don't owe, that would even be unfaithful to your own party. You'll have to wait for that. Last but not least, what it looks like with ads to the ÖVP Linz: If an ÖVP city share paper is already published, it certainly does not require the listing of a Linz city councillor at city costs, so that the ÖVP can pay such a newspaper. [[keeping a magazine in the direction of ÖVP]] This is the corruption that takes place in the small. This is the corruption that leads to corruption in the grand. And one, dear Green: It's all just sound and smoke. As soon as you are responsible, you are no longer interested in education, otherwise you would not have agreed to all the other two-thirds of the other two-thirds that it has given. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who cleans up in Salzburg?]] You don't care about the investigation committee as a minority law, essentially, you're at the trough of power.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17519	Mr Petzner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17540	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, once again, we have heard full-bodied confessions on the part of the Austrian People's Party in the direction of fighting corruption that one confesses that corruption must not take place in any party and not in that state. I would like to make these statements by the Austrian People's Party today together with you in the parliamentary fact-finding check. We also have a statement by Mr. ÖVP-Obmann and Vice-Chancellor Michael Spindelegger, who has declared live in the ORF that under his supervision he has made clean conditions that what happened in the years before under Molterer and Schusel will no longer take place and that he has stopped these conditions. Now we see together whether this statement by Mr Spindelegger corresponds to the truth or not. [[The speaker keeps a magazine up to date with a facsimile print.]] To this end, I look at the issue of the news magazine “NEWS” of 5. September 2013 after where a very, very exciting cancellation order of the Austrian People's Party, including the ÖVP Federal Party leadership, Secretary General Mag. Johannes Rauch, pictured. In addition to seeing this cancellation order, how the ÖVP deals with the freedom of the media and the detection of corruption in this country, namely that those who discover are punished by withdrawing orders from them, this cancellation order is also very, very exciting as far as the sender is concerned. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly!]] This is a company called media.at. Its seat is at Schwarzenbergplatz 6, and it operates here on behalf of the Austrian People's Party and the ÖVP-Obmanns Spindelegger. Now you just have to make the effort and see in the company's book how the ownership of this media.at looks, and then you get very quick that Mr. Spindelegger's statement that he has provided clean conditions that are smooth falsehood. Under his supervision, too, these Black Money accounts have continued to run, illegal party financing has continued, and this company construction, which it has previously given, continues to run. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Sure!]] It has only changed and changed a little, precisely in the direction I have recorded this on this Taferl, ladies and gentlemen. [[The speaker holds a panel on which a graphic can be seen, up to the height.]] Let's go through it chronologically from above: There we have this company media.at that makes the ÖVP election campaign. According to company book, who are the owners of the company media.at? – The Post, the P.S.K., the Telekom, the Lotteries hold shares and also the Austrian Industrial Association owns 1 percent of this media.at. This company media.at again has two hundred percent subsidiaries. Here we have the OmniMedia and once the MediaSelect. Both are already known from the Investigation Committee, both have been severely burdened. With both Michael Fischer is managing director, also known and heavily burdened in the investigation committee. Here, too, Mr. Keshmann is active, which is organized here for the ÖVP in the truest sense of the word the cash. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] Through these two companies and via the media.at the Austrian People's Party is then financed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right! To this day!]] For example, party funding, illegal party funding, corruption under Michael Spindelegger is looking forward to the present day. [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Mrs Minister! That's how your posters are paid!]] As long as the Austrian People's Party does not receive a clear rejection of voters for this corrupt system, this letterbox system, this system will continue to run with bills and sham companies, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] As an observer, Mr Spindelegger is the best proof that nothing can be believed in him. Then I praise Josef Bucherund the BZÖ. Josef Bucherhat actually kept word, provided for clean conditions, and deposited the money. You can rely on the BZÖ. Whoever chooses ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen, this shows this Taferl, continues to choose the party corruption in this country and chooses the destruction of hundreds of million euros of tax money. Think well and decide, ladies and gentlemen at home on the screens, what you want for the future of this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17670	The next speaker was Mr Plessl. The rest of your group's speaking time is 3 minutes, and I put it in place. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17691	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by expressing my deep condolences to the family members of my colleagues who have died. It is a difficult time for family members. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Those who have worked in the Committee of Inquiry know how difficult this time is, how much we have worked up here. It clearly shows what we have implemented. Austria has the most stringent anti-corruption law and also comprehensive provisions for greater transparency in state administration and politics. I would also like to say here that in this legislative period, we have jointly adopted 55 constitutional laws and regulations: Constitutional provisions with a two-thirds majority, where at least three parties were involved in the transparency package in particular in the area of corruption, sometimes we have even jointly decided on a five-party proposal. We have also implemented these provisions together. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to address a point that is very important to me personally. The Minister of Justice has said that she wants independent prosecutors. I would like to report on one case, about an environmental scandal in Lower Austria, namely the Kwizda company in Korneuburg – some even talk about the largest environmental scandal in Austria in recent years. [[Abg. Rädler: The Greens don't care!]] This is a matter of several procedures which have now been brought together, or in response to my question, by the Procuratorate of Korneuburg. Time and again I am asked by the affected relatives, or also by the vice-president, to care for the environment and so on: Why have these procedures been terminated? – I would like to mention two points which have been notified to me: On the one hand, this is an old-fashioned family business in Korneuburg, and, of course, it has contacts with the judiciary, but also with the district headquarters. On the other hand, there are also investigations against the District Head of Korneuburg, which have now been initiated. This is about measures taken by the District Headquarters, which need to be reviewed accordingly. But now it is the case that the district chief is by chance also the sister of the vice-president of the regional court of Korneuburg. Minister! You have also mentioned that you want to have an independent justice. It is precisely this that we must continue to work because this independence is no longer available. I therefore ask you to also ensure that the Korneuburg Public Prosecutor's Office is no longer responsible in this case, but that this procedure on this environmental scandal is transferred to another prosecutor's office, perhaps even in another federal state. Another point that is very important to me: We need a humanotoxicological opinion so that there is finally security for the people who live in this area. Until today, we have no proper opinion. You said at the request, you're going to bring it in. We have to do this. And I would like to take an international toxicologist, because this is very important because public authorities are also being checked. And finally, one more thing: We need to inform the people affected. Until today, no information has been received from the Korneuburg Procuratorate. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] We need to maintain this independence, and I am seeking your support here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17734	As the next speaker, the Member of Parliament has made a statement on the matter. The rest of your group's speaking time is 5 minutes, and I am setting it up. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17755	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Mr Plessl! It is your business, but for me it is very surprising if we are very affected on the one hand today because of the current events and when officials and people who are in the service of the public promise our full support, we are again accusing others in the same context. You are free to make accusations within the framework of parliamentary immunity, but it cannot be that you use it to advertise in your constituency – at the expense of the citizens who have the damage caused by environmental problems at this company. You can't accuse a district chief and a judge, you can't be active. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] And the transmission of information has also taken place. The mayor of the city of Korneuburg, Mr. Gepp, is very much committed to providing comprehensive information to citizens. It is really a joke to deal with these fates, even in view of the things that have taken place today. Here I simply ask for more respect, even in election times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about the Investigation Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – Mr Matznetter has already been in a better position. We talk about the investigative committee, where we had the experience – I myself was a member there – that we had the problem that many people had left the statement because of the simultaneous investigations of the judiciary. Because of the famous sentences: It's not my memory, or: For this I have no perception, we have not been able to reveal everything in the Committee of Inquiry on a political basis. We were able to use very good materials there that were assigned to us by the prosecutor's office, but the real work is now doing the courts. There will be judgments and there is also evidence and not denunciancy and accusations. There is evidence there and in the end judgments will be made there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have, however, taken on very well the political responsibility. We have made a transparency law, a Party Promotion Act and many intensifications that have not even been known to all parliamentary parties – and this has recently been shown – for otherwise it could not have been that the SPÖ Club paid the posters for Chancellor Faymann if we had full information about the laws that we have passed ourselves. [[Abg. Heinzl: Jewelry beater, don't make yourself important!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is especially strenuous to perceive this green supremacy and to see the raised index finger so often. It's really hard. I don't know what's going on. Your goal is, but it's probably to regulate everything and control everyone. And this kind of ban, which exists here, is already very laborious, whether it's speed 80 on the free land roads or something else. [[Abg. Brosz: The ban on corruption is already an insanity!]] You would also like to control the diet of the Austrians, and at the end of the day you would prefer a ban on cutting, but then the release for hashish would be effective. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Who says that?]] That's inconsistency with what you're doing! This is not a modern social policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Small offences were treated more and more sharply. Last example: Under your government, you now want to punish the kiss in the subway in Vienna; you have to pay 50 € for it. I congratulate you! On the other hand, you want to abolish life-long detention. – This is a policy that is directed backwards. For you, the future is a distant country that you probably don't want to reach. They once had liberal approaches, but they have long been rejected. They even want to dictate to parents how they have to train their children: compulsory presence in kindergarten from the first year of life, best then seamless transition into a full day forced day school. [[Call the Greens: Go, please!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Here we should strengthen parents, let the freedom of choice apply. What is the next step? – That after I’m born in the hospital, I have to beg that I’m allowed to take my child home at all? This is a most maligned family policy, which reminds us of the GDR rather than of a free country with strong civil rights, for which we always stand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think the voters have on 29 May. September the choice to choose Klamauk and Polittheater or to take politics seriously. I would like to say to you that I think a lot of citizens of our country are taking politics a lot more seriously than some politicians. ==References== In September, it will decide which course Austria will take. Don't underestimate the voters! They can't be fooled by these maneuvers!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17872	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Widmann to speak. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17893	Mr President. High house! Now, after a few election speeches, I wonder what people think about this Parliament's television screens, when the Green Group turns out to be a pamphlet, with allegations – in part they vote, in part they do not vote, in part they are invented – and Mr Pilz is waving through the area, and once in a general way throwing all the other parties with dirt. [[Abg. Brosz: What was invented?]] That's a fact once. How to get to this information is something else. Has the information been legally obtained, yes or no? Have they been played out by justice? – So these are topics that people here are thinking about. There are two instruments to clarify this: There are – point one – ordinary courts and there are – point two – committees of inquiry, and one should also let them work accordingly. But the people in this country have quite different concerns. I really miss the Greens' statements on the real concerns of people: on work, on a discharge, on tax reform, on education. There's nothing coming because apparently there's no more content. That is why I believe that in the case of corruption, it will be necessary to ensure that, in the future, the Committee of Inquiry will in fact become a minority right, so that SPÖ and ÖVP can no longer easily turn this important instrument around. We also want a banking investigation committee, not only for the hypo – which we have repeatedly called for – but also for the municipal credit, also for the ÖVAG, because we are sure that there is still a lot of slumbering about what it is worth clarifying. But now to the role of SPÖ: Echomedia has been addressed, this wonderful money multiplying machine, where you rent the Burgtheater by €1.2 million for the European Championship and then actually cashed €400 000. Mr Cap, you should make that clear. Minister! I would be interested – the facts are here on the table, which are known, the colleague Cap knows: Why is nothing happening here? What about a project report? When will justice finally get under way to clarify things? I'd be interested in going into the red half of the empire, because the SPÖ is known for scandals. I only remember Noricum, Lucona, “Consum”, BAWAG, AKH, Versatlichtenpleite et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. [[Abg. Grosz: There was corruption everywhere there was red!]] Wherever reds are, it goes down, there is corruption, and they leave behind a blood trail of job destruction. Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, that is the truth that needs to be addressed! The ÖVP makes this a little more intelligent and elegant. It also has a lot of dirt on its plug, for example in the form of MediaSelect. This has already been clearly shown by Mr Petzner, the spider fabric, this black crack, where the colleague Spindelegger stands and says: I'm the cleaner! – But in reality, they are abundantly cashing around the back just to name the names Michael Fischer or Schieszler. That's the Schieszler system, that's the ÖVP system, and that belongs once in a clear light. – Ms Minister! My next question is: Why clarify You don't open that? Why should I put it? You're not a step here? Why are you always blind when it comes to SPÖ errors or ÖVP errors? Apparently the system has. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Col. Pilz! They make a money-back tour, I have heard and read. Have you already paid for your cheapest apartment in municipal construction? Have you already repaid the money for those people who can no longer afford to live? [[Abg. Rädler: Pigry!]] Mr Pilz! Sage You do! Get up and say: Yes, I did! - No, you can't because you didn't pay back anything. So stop holding the mirror here. You should look even in these, under quotation marks, “dwelling mirror”, because then you will become completely pale. Or: In Vienna, colleague Van der Bellen, as the so-called university representative of the city of Vienna, receives €250 000, together in a coalition with SPÖ. What for, colleague Cap? - We don't know until today. 250 000 € per year! – Where is the account report? - Well, we don't want to know, we don't see that. And one thing I also say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: They are really the ones that should pay people the most, because where you rule with the reds, we have the highest fees. I can only remind you of the following: For water and canal charges, for example, there was an increase of 33 per cent in 2012, with parking fees a plus of 67 per cent, with dog tax a plus of 65 per cent. - So that's your government responsibility. When do you pay people back? You'll never be able to repay that. That's what it looks like. And then go here, colleague Pilz, and write in your pamphlet two false things, such as that the BZÖ would have received €960 000 from Telekom. – That’s not true, you know that very well. The process is running, the appeal is also under way. In reality, this is not a scandal of corruption, but, legally speaking, an enrichment by illegal acts of third parties. All those who were there at the time, we threw out of the party, we made pure table. And we also have deposits in the case of the case. We are willing to repay money, but then, when the justice has finished investigating, not on the phone of the Greens. That's what we're looking at. And we're also going to regress. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, Mrs. Justice Minister, who is fighting party-politically for the Chancellor's office here, my colleague Karl, will explain to me one more: How can it be that, of course, two weeks before the election, a BZU-enemy judgment is taken, but in Linz, Mr. Dobusch, the red Mr. Mayor, is not being questioned about the swap deal? This is about the small amount of € 450 million, that is the 450-fold! He is not being questioned, because – Josef Bucher quoted it – one could not blame party-politically for a national election. Is that your policy? I'd be interested to see if you were behind it. Why don't you follow the ÖVP and SPÖ scandals in the Telekom area? There is a lot of money that has been proven to have flown, and I would like to ask my colleague Cap – Mr Darabos I do not see now – and also my colleague's head: Have you already made provisions in case you need to repay something like the BZÖ? This would be a proper and decent policy I would expect. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude: Support You want to set up our request for a declaration of honor that, after the elections, you want to start a committee of inquiry with us, in order to clarify all these cases! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e17983	As the last speaker in this debate, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. The rest of the speaking time of the Group is 7 minutes; I shall put it in your hands. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18004	Ladies and gentlemen! This is an exciting session. It is really interesting to observe how FPÖ and ÖVP show mutual courage. Obviously, both are in the defensive. I can only say it's the alliance of the escaped. If the FPÖ comes up with a half-kick word message, there's frenetic applause here, if you get a mediocrely smart word message, there's applause there. You have nothing to offer. It's a pitiful attempt to turn the spear around. It is the attempt of the Alliance of the Mature to narrow the Enlightenments in any form, but I can explain point by point to you. [[Abg. New builder: a pipecreper!]] Colleague Head comes out, introduces himself and reads all serious an article, according to which the Greens are in the sinking flight – the Greens are in the sinking flight – and garnishes it with all kinds of accusations against the Greens. In the end, he has to admit that it is about the German Greens. Mr. Kopf! The nice thing is, you know, the Austrian greens have a back wind, and that will last for the next two weeks. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Your problem is not only that the Green Winds have, but that the ÖVP is not a CDU. This is the problem of the ÖVP. Or next point: Mr Ikrath – he has already taken the flight; it is so absurd, it is ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen – keeps the Greens in front of the Mariahilfer Straße. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We discuss corruption with the Greens about a pedestrian zone, at ÖVP and FPÖ. Yes, you can discuss a pedestrian zone, that is democracy. You can't discuss corruption, it's a tax payer crime. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] The voters can take a picture, and he's making a picture. With us the Mariahilfer Straße, at ÖVP and FPÖ most massive accusations of corruption. Even more nice are the fees in Vienna, a permanent burner, ladies and gentlemen. The fees have risen in Vienna. Let's take a look at the fees. The garbage charges in Vienna amount to € 4.24 for a 120-liter waste container, ruled in Klagenfurt, blue, they are twice as high, namely €9.20 and in Graz, black, they are twice as high with €8.97. [[Abg. Neubauer: We are here in the National Council and not in the Landtag!]] It's pathetic that you need to discuss garbage on the corruption issue, but that's exactly the problem of ÖVP and FPÖ. You have nothing to offer, so we enjoy the luxury of dealing with such arguments, and we need to explain to you why the voters are running away from you, because they are, of course, looking through it. In a row, to make it quite clear what we are discussing here is what the new is. The ÖVP system, and this is the same system that has also existed with FPÖ and BZÖ: There is an advertising agency that obviously pays ÖVP listing. There is an ÖVP account, and close-to-state companies, such as the Telekom, the lotteries, or companies that have to do with close-to-state businesses, such as Raiffeisen, pay on this account. This is credited to the ÖVP, and with these funds, that is the system ÖVP, then the ads of the ÖVP are served. The Minister of Justice says: An old hat. What is an old hat in Austrian? – That’s so to speak, there’s nothing to it. I find this scandalous for a Minister of Justice. They stand for a party event, make themselves a judge, and tell everyone that these accusations are an old hat. Ladies and gentlemen! A minister of justice, who is so far ahead of party politics, is ready to resign. You will no longer resign, the voters and the voters will do this for you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens promised three things and kept three things. We said first, there's education. This was in the investigation committee, and it must be said that it is gratifying that the prosecutors are highly active there. Ms. Minister of Justice! I need to remind you of something. They stand out here and tell all the serious that the economic and corruption prosecutorship had had 30 plan posts so far and has 35 in the future. So far, it's still true. But what the Minister of Justice conceals: In fact, only 21 prosecutors work there; there were already 23. There's not going to be any more, it's going to be less, and that's got a reason. The Minister of Justice has reduced the payment to the corruption prosecutor's office. Now many prosecutors are wondering if they should do this difficult work, where they are strong in the public when you break the payment. That's fantasy numbers, 30 and 35, you know that. At present 21 are active there. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] Reimbursement: Here, too, it is quite clear that the judicial system is working. Let's hold on: Two parties are condemned, one is the FPÖ with €600,000. [[Abg. Neubauer: This is not a condemnation, but a decision of the first instance!]] That's a judgment! They always say: We have nothing to do with it. Who was then deputy partyobmann, who was then a member of the Federal Board of Directors? – It was your Heinz-Christian Strache, who was with it. It has not yet been done, however, that the last point would be legislative changes. We've achieved a lot. I am grateful to you once again for the list of the many things that have gone on in the field of corruption. Thank you for calling the green successes. However, it is not all done yet, so we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have begun the re-start of this Republic in the last two or three years. We will continue to strengthen it after the elections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18171	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18264	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Lugar, colleague and colleagues on political liability. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, and so the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Werner Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on anti-corruption reforms. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[16:37:19]] Short debate on the reply to the question 14337/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18324	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 14337/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I call on the honourable Member to: Grosz as an applicant or signatory of the request to open the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18354	Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Today, after we have already worked on the justice of the Austrian People's Party, popularly said, the Ministry of Finance is now in charge. Mrs Finanzminister! For 30 years, the Austrian National Council has employed one national bank scandal after another. For 30 years now, you know and we know and we know the astonishing population that there are pension privileges in the National Bank, which, popularly said, do not fit into a hat box. While many other people in our country, compensaters or pensioners are fed with a so-called bet, with a small percentage increase in their pension, the so-called National Bank privileges continue to flourish. This time it is not about pensions at the National Bank, admittedly, but about the luxury paradise of the National Bank vulgo seminar and leisure facility in Floridsdorf. Mrs Finanzminister! We've faced you several times with this: Kegelbahn, Beachvolleyballplatz, Minigolf, Swimming Landscape, Holiday Club, Steam Bath, Shooting Station, Tennis Courts, Skateranlage, Football Course with Flood Light and so on. The Austrian National Bank holds its own holiday paradise in Floridsdorf, but not at the expense of the members who promote this leisure facility, but at the expense of taxpayers. This investment devours €600 000 in costs in the year, of which €300 000 alone, Mrs Finanzminister – What? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Who knows what he's talking about, colleague Amon? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Not you!]] That's not a problem? If all this is so funny that €600 000 will be thrown away in this country, if all this is such a Gaudi, then we can stop, then we will pack one, ladies and gentlemen! You of the People's Party have already packed mentally anyway, as I feel. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's all such a Gaudi! Under the supervision of a red national bank governor, there is no problem at all for the ÖVP, and a Finance Minister is still looking forward to answering the parliamentary questions raised by my clubman Josef Bucher with the answer: [[Abg. Petzner: She's watching!]] “The answer to these questions does not fall within the scope of the Federal Ministry of Finance”, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I can remind you that the Republic of Austria holds 70.27 per cent of the shares in the Austrian National Bank and therefore we take you into the drawing and also into the consequence of giving the Austrian National Council information on those painterries, on the luxury paradise that celebrates the Austrian National Bank’s joyful original state. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Finanzminister! You once again rejected a tax reform in our country. You, who, in many interviews for three years, have always been talking about the discharge of taxpayers who you see as a patron saint and as an attorney for taxpayers, announcing something on every occasion, but today have rejected a tax reform, it is responsible that Austrians pay 43.7 percent of taxes and taxes for your financial system, for your tax system. Citizens have to contribute to their suffering that, because of their government debt policy, they have increased to €231.6 billion. You explain to the Austrians that you have no money, and have the 13. Family aid, you, the Austrian People's Party with Social Democracy, abolished. You, Mrs. Finanzminister, explain to the Austrians that you had no money but transferred €1.56 billion to Greece and increased the tax on mineral oil. However, with the National Bank, Mrs Finanzminister, since there is noble restraint, there is no discussion in Parliament, since you have simply ignored the questions raised by the BZÖ. We asked you how much the costs for this seminar and leisure facility in the years 2011 and 2012 were, who pays this leisure facility for National Bank privileges in our country, while other Floridsdorfers have to pay in the outdoor pool thanks to Rot-Grün 10 € admission, Mrs Finanzminister! How is the completion of this seminar system covered? – All the questions that the taxpayers are interested in, all the questions that interest the admiring majority of our country, which it simply cannot offer, that today, 30 years after Jörg Haider first addressed the National Bank privileges in this Republic, we need to invest once more valuable time of the National Council to discuss the privileges of this unique privilege stadium of the Republic. Mrs. Federal Minister! They have all the time of this earth to give us comprehensive information today. The parliamentary question 14556/J is also before you. And I assume that you will finally give the Austrian National Council a speech and an answer to these privileges in the Austrian National Bank.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18423	Mrs. Federal Minister, would you like to comment on this? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Yes!]] - Then I'll give you the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18455	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, listeners! High house! I would like to make it clear in advance that I am already in the short debate on 26 March. In the case of an anonymous letter against the Oesterreichische Nationalbank on the same Causa, the Court of Justice of the European Communities held that the Court of First Instance had failed to fulfil its obligations under Article 107(1) of the Treaty. At the time, I have already reported extensively on the legal framework of the right of interconnection. I've been around this house for a long time, knowing how to use it in detail. And this House has clearly defined what a minister must provide information about and what is not subject to the right of information. At the time, I also said that I cannot give the National Bank information in this particular case – I am going to carry it out legally – but the House is very likely to have the opportunity to discuss precisely these issues in the financial committee, in the context of the debate with the Governor of the Bank. [[Abg. Grosz: You can say your opinion!]] Mr Grosz! Since 26. You would have had time to hold this current debate with the central bank and get the answers you would like. I can't give you that answer. It is my duty as Minister of Finance to speak and answer all matters of execution by the Federal Ministry of Finance. I take this very seriously; I have been a parliamentarian for a long time. Transparency is important to me, and I have never been afraid to give answers here in Parliament. However, Mr Grosz, I am also in favour of the Constitution and I have to respect the Constitution. And the Constitutional Legislator here in the House has just given these answers barriers. In accordance with Article 52 of the Federal Constitutional Act, the National Council is empowered to review the management of the Federal Government, to consult its members on all matters of enforcement and to request all relevant information. These control rights to the Federal Government and its members also exist in respect of undertakings in which the Federal Government is involved with at least 50 percent of the capital and capital or equity and which are subject to the audit of the Court of Auditors. § 90 2. The sentence of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council 1975 specifies the subject-matter of enforcement, i.e. the subject-matter of the right of question, using the wording of § 2 para. 3 of the Federal Ministry Act. Accordingly, government acts as well as matters of administrative administration or administration of the federal government should be understood as bodies of private rights. The legal basis I have just presented shows that matters of a legal person as such cannot be the subject of parliamentary questions by the Confederation, but only insofar as an activity of the federal institutions – and I am not an institution of the National Bank – refers to such a legal person. There is no administrative activity required for parliamentary control within the meaning of the Constitutional Act where an independent legal entity acts in a private legal form. The possibility of interpolation begins where management powers or ingenuity of the members of the government are used in relation to the activities of the independent legal entity. Now to the National Bank: The Oesterreichische National Bank (Oesterreichische National Bank) is a stock company to which the provisions of the Stock Corporation are to be applied, unless otherwise determined. The Executive Board therefore has to manage the National Bank on its own responsibility as it requires the company's well-being, taking into account the interests of shareholders and employees and public interest. In the § 70 Aktiengesetz and in the § 35 Notesbankgesetz, this is specified and cannot be amended unless express legal authority of state institutions is granted. I have no authority to advise the central bank; and due to this limited inconsistency of the Federal Minister for Finance to the National Bank, the activities of the National Bank can only be of direct concern to the extent that the National Bank is highly active – and it is not superior in its seminar infrastructures and sports facilities for its employees. You therefore see, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but point out that these questions have to be addressed to the Governor, within the framework of the Financial Committee, where we have regular discussions with the head of the central bank. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Kogler and Scheibner.]] You have had time since April to address these questions there. Unfortunately, I have to tell you this here and today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have therefore indicated, in accordance with the Constitutional Laws adopted here in the House, that your request is not a matter of execution by the Ministry of Finance. We have also obtained a legal opinion from the Constitutional Service in the Federal Chancellery in order to ensure that this legal position is the right and correct. I can therefore refer you to the Committee on Finance and ask you to place your questions there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18517	The next speaker was Mr Podgorschek. I would point out that from now on the speaking time is limited by 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18538	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! You forgot, of course, to mention that I had these questions on 26 May. ==References== I heard these answers quite clearly at the time and, of course, in the Financial Committee, I referred to Mr Novotny in this regard. But the answers were so unsatisfying that I am basically as ignorant now as I was at the time; for Mr. Governor Novotny has no interest in making it clear. [[Abg. Neubauer: Just like at the Linzer!]] My question, Mrs Bundesminister, is this: As far as I know, the National Bank is 100% owned by the federal government. They are the owner's representative, order the supervisory bodies and can influence the National Bank with these supervisory bodies. But if you do nothing but send people who are more or less part of this system and are also privileged riders there, then you can't expect anything to change there at the end of the day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You are also responsible, because you have to send people who are interested in representing the interests of the Republic, the taxpayer, the voters, the population, but not the interests of some banks and other privileges, as is the case in the National Bank at present! The National Bank already has ongoing calls for help. My parliamentary club has already received three anonymous letters from employees of the National Bank because they themselves have a bad feeling. [[Abg. Wheeler: Naderer!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The request of the BZÖ concerning the leisure centre is only the tip of the iceberg! There are still very different privileges in this National Bank. And we know: For 20, 30 years, this has been taken up permanently, but no owner has addressed this. I know you've been a Minister of Finance for a few years, but your predecessors have not attacked this issue either. This National Bank is simply a privilege stadium that is clean. I mention these cries for help. ==References====External links== year(s) Call for help from the Austrian National Bank. Then we have another one in April: Questions to Governor Novotny. ==References== June: Insulating in the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. – I assume that this letter or allegations are also known to you. These are allegations about post positions. [[Call the ÖVP:Fearable!]] In some cases, office mergers are carried out, but departments are divided, so that two departments are made up of three – that is, your party – that you dispose of an ÖAPBker because it no longer fits into the red scheme. This ÖAPBER is then department head with a second person! These are things that belong to us! And if you have no opportunity to intervene there, at least you would have the opportunity to exert pressure on the public accordingly. I do not think there is an opposition party that would not be willing to take this path with you. We might as well change the National Council Act. [[Abg. Riepl: What kind of law?- Oh, my God!]] The opposition was not asked here. We just expect you to finally put an end to this colorful drift and clarify it. The appointment of the Supervisory Boards is still your task, and you could have intervened there. For example, there is a letter – I can give it to you – with eight points, i.e. allegations that are up-to-date, for example, that executives have been occupied without tendering procedures or that the additional department head has increased by about €80 000 to € 120 000 a year, or that they should be spending cash again in the main cash, and this time more than € 1 million. [[The speaker shall examine in his documents:]] That's not a minker's bitch! These are the most massive accusations that I believe would be suitable for the prosecutor's office. There are also already anonymous advertisements, or the prosecutor's office determined. But I don't listen to it unless you point out that Governor Novotny should give us information. Mrs Bundesminister, you are always in the committee yourself. Mr. Nowotny would perhaps be a fairytale uncle for the good night show, where he talks a little bit about the sandman, but he certainly is not suitable for giving the financial committee proper information on how the situation really is. [[Abg. Neubauer: mute film!]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Because of these events in the National Bank, I can only say one thing: Change the occupation of the Supervisory Board! [[Abg. May. Kogler: not even for the hypo scandal!]] It's time for a system change, it's time for a change of government! For black and red are, as you can see, currently incapable of reform, and it finally belongs to a new government.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18664	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18685	Ladies and gentlemen! I find it a bit difficult to deal with this question or the failure to answer by the Federal Minister, and I am starting with you, Mrs Federal Minister. That is all beautiful, right and good what you have presented to us about the rights of the National Council. I always find it amusing when a member of the government tries to teach the National Council what he is allowed to ask and what he cannot ask. But it does not change, Mrs Federal Minister, that I know in various areas questions, in which Members are very likely to be referred to by the member of the government that, although there is no right, there is nevertheless an attempt by the member of the government to obtain and to provide information accordingly. To ask this right, Mrs Federal Minister, is also for you; as we may ask, even if not in all respects it is certain that there will have to be an answer. But that you could take this as an opportunity to ask the National Bank and then the National Bank can decide for yourself whether it answers, that is also outside of any debate. To this end, you do not need to give us a lecture on the national Council's inter-deplication rights. Mrs. Federal Minister! Don't you notice that with this type of answer, you land in an endless loop?- Oh, my God! I almost find this absurd. It is a sports and leisure centre of the National Bank. Yes, one can discuss whether or not a national bank should pay €300 000 in the specific case per year. But do we discuss this at other establishments when they have a leisure or sports facility? - No, we don't discuss that. We'll discuss it at the National Bank. This should be the case, but, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, and I am at the heart of your subject, it has only been mentioned very briefly by Mr Grosz: If we are to discuss and want to discuss the National Bank, I am honest to say that other topics than a sports and leisure centre, namely the pension privileges of the National Bank. This was only addressed, but is ten times more important than a sports and leisure facility. When it comes to a sports and leisure facility, every business that keeps something on its own will stand up and say I'm doing something for my employees. Now we can discuss whether what is done in this example, in this sports and leisure facility of the National Bank, for employees, has something to do with what is usually done. But it is certainly not the problem of the National Bank that we should deal with. When we talk about the National Bank, the pension privileges came into my mind. We should talk much more about it when we did or did not actually do that when it came to raising this pension contribution a little above that limit, as the Minister of Social Affairs then suggested. [[Abg. Grosz: Feel free!]] We Greens felt that it should be a higher pension contribution, that it should be progressive and that it should not affect low pensions, which are also available at the National Bank. But then we would have received another request and perhaps another answer. [[Abg. Grosz: After feeling free! Talk S’ about it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am sorry, honestly, that we are discussing this and that we are dealing with a Minister for Finance who is producing and who does not give an answer. That's what I think is all the more sad, because you're back in the next steep template. – The next one will probably not be because the BZÖ may no longer be able to deliver the next steep template on this point. But that you will then return to the next steep template for someone else, with this consequence, I really regret it. You would have had the opportunity to reply differently, and we would have had it easier to discuss the matter and not the refusal of a Federal Minister to reply.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18738	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Widmann. 5 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18760	Mr President. High house! Mr Oellinger! You can be helped: I now come to the pension privileges to speak. We from BZÖ have two speakers. But first of all, Mrs Finanzminister: It is a strange thing to make ourselves here, not to answer a question properly and then to refer to the Financial Committee in relation to the National Bank, which I myself am involved in. And what answers do we get there? – That’s where you always want to turn your back on the answers. We don't get any answers. So we need to discuss this here. I hope that we will find a common basis, because the National Bank is, of course, a red and black self-service shop, a privilege stadium without control! We all know that in this country, and you still defend it! It is therefore necessary to show this. There is a red president and a former black vice-president, who is also the head of the Austrian banknote and security printing company. The sad story of this society is probably known to all, and the ÖVP is already looking away ashamed. That was the one bank that tried to say once, with commissions, some say “smart money” to also enter the banknote printing business in Azerbaijan or Syria. The corresponding reports are still well remembered to us, namely the means by which one has tried to start the shops there: with Gucci handbags, with perfumes, with coffee machines, with women's stockings, with Chanel bags up to string tangas! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this was the financial resources of the National Bank's daughter – with the success that your party-related colleague Duchatczek has now been suspended by the service and judicial investigations are also taking place in this field. This is also the current history of the National Bank, which we have never received information from the Committee, Mrs Finanzminister. So stop working with your double-bed in committee if you refuse your own party colleagues' work there! The sports facilities have been discussed, now I come to the pension privileges. Yeah, of course it's crazy. If you only started with the National Bank from 2007, then you are ASVGler, then you get an ASVG-pension. So a terrible suffering for some red-black artists. But the suffering is eased, because there is a pension fund of its own, and it then fattens up the whole thing again. There you come as a pensioner, if you were present before 2007, to up to 85 percent of the last deal. You have to imagine that! Every normal pensioner dreams of it, especially when the SPÖ is on their posters, when it comes to pensions. But there are apparently some who are more alike, there may be a bit more. If you have entered this bank before 1993, after 35 years of service, 55 will already receive a full pension, i.e. 85 percent of the final salary! That's an insanity at all. Where is there something like this – at 55 years of retirement, only 35 years of work?- Oh, my God! Mr Cap! Is that social security? Is this the pension you're putting? [[Abg. New builder: This is fair!]] Or is this social fairness? - That's not her. That's where you make people an X for a U. Considering that 1 300 pensioners currently have to be supplied with hundreds of million euros in this bank – 1 300! – but on the other hand there are just 1,000 employees, you know what the mismanagement is there. We also need to discuss this. Because paying does this to the general public. Figures do this for the little hacker, the small businessman, also the small official and also the pensioner, who, because of you and because of these shortcomings, no longer gets the pension he would normally earn. And I can remind you – that is not the BZÖ, but the Court of Auditors –: The average pension in the National Bank is currently €4,650, not twelve times, but fifteen times! This is currently the average pension in the National Bank, from the cleaning woman to the Director-General. These are the things you can no longer apply because the maximum pension at the ASVG is just €2 500. Ladies and gentlemen! Shame on it! But there are other things to be ashamed of when you are reddish or black, when you think about other social security schemes or about the privileges at the ÖBB. There we have similar pension swamps for red and black party accountants, who a normal pensioner cannot live in. Or think about Upper Austria right now! There's a swap scandal. A city councillor, Mr. Mayr, was charged. The procedure is under way. This is about the small amount of €450 million that has been placed in the sand. 450 million €! As a city councillor he resigned, he had to resign. And what now does the red family community in Upper Austria do? – She secures his pension and his job. That's for her! He has been the head of the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse since the very beginning. This is the pension scheme and the job security of the Social Democrats! Shame on it! So it is, Mrs Fekter. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we want a pension right for all, one where everyone is treated fairly and equally. Stop these pension privileges! Your red pensioner Blecha also receives 15 000 € pension per month! Let's go! Let's choose the BZÖ! I'll invite you to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18820	As the last speaker, Mr Ing. Lugar in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18842	Minister! We are talking about an answer to a question today, and we can also get a little bit of it. If you look closely at it, the right of inquiry you have defended today is a joke. It's a joke, and that's because there's no way for us to get answers if you or anyone else don't want to. I would just like to give you an example from the recent past. There has been an NSA scandal in which the foreign intelligence is said to have heard private persons in Austria. We wanted to know first of all: Is that right? And second: What exactly was heard and what happened to the data? - That's what we asked the Minister of the Interior. She has declared herself incompetent. Okay, that may be. It has referred us to Mr Klug, and Mr Klug has just said that he does not say anything about it, he simply does not say anything about it. And you're doing the same thing today. They're going here today, saying, Okay, there are guidelines, and you just don't say anything about it. On top of what's about the National Bank, you're saying here that you don't have any influence on the National Bank. We could talk about why the Ministry of Finance has no influence on the National Bank, which should represent our interests. But that's another story. But let us assume that you have no influence on the National Bank – you have explained to us in a word why you cannot provide any information here – what about another question? – In the past, we have often asked you what the hypo-Alpe-Adria looks like, what you believe, how many billions of damage can be expected. Well, do you think we've been getting some information to this day? I think we've been asking you 20 times. The various parties have asked you this question. All the others, down from the Federal Chancellor, also Mr. Cap, have already mentioned numbers, the only ones who persistently refuse here – not only in the High House, also on TV, everywhere – are you! You have so far persistently refused to inform us of what you expect for taxpayers' payments. The chancellor says €9 billion, Mr. Cap says today €20 billion, somewhere in this field we will move. You do not find it worth calling us a specific number, nor to where all the criteria you mentioned here today – all the criteria! – to the hypo. That means you have to provide information, but you don't. And that's exactly the problem. That is to say, the right of inquiry is really a joke, because we can ask for it, but if you ignore us, we cannot do anything either. That's the problem. Once we have been elected, we have to talk very deeply about whether Parliament's right to control the government is being trampled on. If we're lucky, we won't have a red-black government after the next election, and then it might get a little easier. Because if we have new majority in Parliament, we may have the opportunity to finally take Parliament seriously. No one is taking Parliament seriously at the moment. [[Abg. Neubauer: The Stronach has said for himself that he does not come to the meetings!]] Parliament has come to a vote machine. It is no longer a question of us leading something together here, it is only about Hickhack to brake each other out. Parliament has come to a vote machine. You are to blame for this, because you are constantly setting foot on Parliament and its rights at every request and so on in the House. This has to be addressed once again. I would also like to mention one point because it is symptomatic: We have today tabled a proposal on political liability. That is, we want politicians to be held liable if they have obviously made bad decisions and perhaps even with bad intentions. There is. Especially if we look at the state emergency without need, we can see that Mr Pröll has clearly made a wrong decision here in the best case and in the worst case due to any infiltrator we do not know, due to any circumstances that we do not know, but which we want to clarify, knowingly caused the taxpayer a damage. That's exactly why we want political liability. We do not want every politician to pick up stuff, we want a politician who has proved to have caused damage to the taxpayer – like Mr Pröll – to be held responsible and to assume liability, as it is quite normal in the economy. That's what we want here. Who has agreed to our request today? Who has agreed to the opposition – with the government I have already lost hope anyway? It was just us who got up. I don't understand. Yes, don't we finally want to be responsible in politics? We can only do this if we stop politicians from standing up for their decisions. That's why: The politicians must stand up for their decisions. That's what we want – and you don't seem to want that. And that's why I wonder why you don't want to. Can't you represent your decisions? Skill You don't represent them in front of people out there? [[Abg. Wheeler: (an English-Canadian accent initiating) Functionaries! Officers!]] If you can represent them, you agree! We shall make this request again and again. Voices You agree to a political liability, because only then will we get a better policy in this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18905	No one has been reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18924	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Member. Stefan, colleagues, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for reporting on Members' amendment 2226/A Dr. Fichtenbauer, colleagues, concerning an amendment to the Rules of Procedure Act 1975, a period of time until 24. ==References== I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[17:14:57]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00217_d7e18965	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 2376/A to 2378/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 15948/J to 15954/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 18. September 2013, 8:00 p.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed at the meeting room. This meeting is closed.
