ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e4594	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 191. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of the 190. Meeting of 19. In February 2013, the Parliamentary Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported ing. Gartlehner, Ing. May. Kuzdas, Mag. Lettenbichler, Steindl, Mag. Musiol, Ing. Lugar, Doppler and Dr. Rosenkranz.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e4627	There is a speech on the Rules of Procedure of Mr Magistrate. Kogler. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e4648	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact: I raise objections to the agenda and, at the same time as a separate debate, call for the inclusion of the following items into the agenda, as TOP 1 to 5, as has already been decided by a majority in the Committee on Budgets: TOP 1: (2146 of Supplements): Federal Law amending the Financial Constitution Act 1948 and the Federal Constitutional Act on Empowerments of the Austrian Municipal Federation and the Austrian Town Association (2183 of Supplements) TOP 2: (2147 of Supplements): Federal Act amending the Federal Budget Act 2013 and the Federal Financial Act 2013 (2184 of Supplements) TOP 3: (2148 of Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Finance Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act, the Civil Service Health and Accident Insurance Act and the Notary Insurance Act 1972 on the implementation of the prohibition of speculation by public means (2185 of the supplements) TOP 4: Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the Civil Service Vacation and Processing Act (BUAG) (2186 of the Supplements) TOP 5: Government template (2160 of the supplements): 15a Agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities on a risky financial contribution (2187 of the Supplements). A separate debate is required, Madam President, because the relevant negotiations in the preparation of this National Council meeting, following the Budget Committee, are considered provisionally failed. We believe that we really need to improve this. But that is not the point, but it is the question of this House, the constitutional system. In the future, it is important to know what is happening behind the scenes so that something is decided here, which is really worth the name “Speculation Prohibition”.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e4708	Mr Klubobmann's head spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e4730	Madam President. High house! This was a very strange speech, and it is a strange desire that Mr Kogler has now expressed, because yesterday we had a round of negotiations between all six groups of this House and the Ministry of Finance and the President of the Court of Auditors, where it was just Mr Kogler, who had asked him to do so today not yet, but to continue to negotiate. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] And that's exactly what's happening now. We did a good deal on this matter yesterday, but not at a conclusion, and then in the evening we decided not to put it on the agenda today, but to continue negotiating with the aim of having decided on and deciding on these matters in the March plenary session. So I do not understand this schizophrenia, which is being shown here yesterday, namely to ask us to postpone it, and now to make the request to put it on the agenda! [[Calls for Greens]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's wrong!]] – Something is wrong with Mr Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e4785	Mr Klubobmann's head, I do not want to start the morning hour already with great reproofs, but we fail to provide sickness information, not only in the early morning, but during the entire session. [[Calls for Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] Mr Klubobmann Bucher spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e4822	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a great deal of agreement to act faster after the speculation scandals in Salzburg, but this reporting acceleration has now somehow arrived at all. In the run-up to the country elections in Lower Austria and in Carinthia, one has signaled that one wants to negotiate and prevent speculation. Now we are just a few days ahead of the country elections, everyone has the goal in mind, but somehow no one has any more interest in the ban on speculation. We therefore call for this matter to be on the agenda. There is a great deal of agreement between all the parties here in Parliament to want to do something in this respect, also to adopt a Constitutional Act. However, the red and the black have grown too large of the national leaders, so that they have now returned from the original line they have taken. This is a deception of the population by red and black – and nothing else! That is why we call for this to be dealt with and decided today.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e4857	Mr Klubobmann spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e4878	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the following must be stated: There's been negotiations. During the negotiations some thing went on, yes, but what you already had to experience is that the ball between SPÖ and ÖVP has been pushed back and forth again and again. On one occasion, Deputies Jan Krainer from the SPÖ was against the speculation festival that the countries too had things to reveal, and in the end this turned again, and then it was the ÖVP. So we didn't come to a green branch until now. This is also the reason why we do not have this item on the agenda today with two-thirds majority on the agenda, because there is no agreement or two-thirds majority in favour of this law until now. Why? – Because up to now, one was not prepared to secure the water as a public asset and property of the Austrians in the Austrian constitutional rank. – You have to note that too. This too is a requirement of the liberals. But I am surprised, Mr Kogler: Mr Brosz was in the presidency, where we unanimously decided that this would be put on the agenda as an item if there was an agreement and, of course, a two-thirds majority to be able to decide on the law, otherwise it would make no sense. [[Abg. May. Kogler: It makes sense!]] You've got to say that, too. It is therefore reasonable to continue to drive the government forward, not because in the end there are those who are torpedoing it and thus preventing it from being implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e4916	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e4937	This was a very hard-working opposition report, Mr Klubobmann Strache, but it goes a little by the reality. Then: As far as the Socialist Group is concerned, we have accepted 100 percent of the positions you formulated yesterday. That's what's in the media today. So there's nothing in the way of a two-thirds majority. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then let's put it on the agenda!]] We have discussed this again in the club, and we want to go from our side – I am now talking about us, I am not the overall chairman, but I am the chairman of the Socialist parliamentary group, and therefore I can only take a position in the direction. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] So there is the agreement that was necessary yesterday. I regret that this will not be decided today. [[Abg. Scheibner: Let's put it on the agenda!]] We believe that we need to act here quickly, because the population wants us to really decide on these bans on speculation here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Right!]] – This, in principle, once again. What I cannot understand from Mr Kogler's speech is: He says something about “behind the scenes. ” Excuse me, Mr Kogler, what do you mean by "behind the scenes"? – You’ve been sitting there all the time, you know what discussions – even controversial nature – have been taking place in recent weeks. [[Abg. May. Kogler: It should be discussed here once so that your Members know what!]] You want to discuss this here in plenary? – There is no objection either. But you too do not have the right to agree. It would be best for us to have agreed to all the parties. There are always Sunday speeches like this: We are against speculation!, but when it comes to the nail sample, that you decide this together too, then nothing can be heard from you. [[Calls for Greens]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Let's put it on the agenda!]] We're ready! We agree! We want this to be on the agenda quickly and quickly decided!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e5042	For business treatment: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e5064	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! - But now it's enough! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If I hear now that a two-thirds majority is possible and that you agree with our line, Mr Klubobmann Cap, I will tell you: Then we'll decide today! We have a line. You just said you'd agree to our line. Yeah, who's not there then? – I would like to know! Let us take it on the agenda and decide today on the ban on speculation!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e5103	We have now heard a number of statements on business treatment. In addition, there are the objections of Mr Magn. Mr Kogler, whom he has spoken orally, also wrote in writing, including the desire for debate. I repeat: There are five points: 2146 of the Supplements, 2147 of the Supplements, 2148 of the Supplements, report and request of the Committee on Budgets 2186 of the Supplements, Government template: 2160 of the Supplements. I am not in favour of the objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. According to the Rules of Procedure pursuant to § 50, I limit the speaking time in this debate to 5 minutes, which I now note at this point, and the number of speakers per club to three. This debate will be held after the current hour has been carried out, and then it will be decided before entry into the agenda. I announce that this session will be transferred live to ORF III. [[09:14:06]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e5147	We are now getting to the current one. Hours on the subject: ‘Fleischkandal: It’s not us ‘worst’, what we eat!’ Mr Klubobmann Bucher was the first speaker to speak. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e5175	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! “It’s not us ‘wurst’, what we eat!” – that’s the title of the current hour. The issue is actually up-to-date because many consumers in Austria are unsure of what they are offered in the food markets. The recent events give an example of the fact that the control bodies are basically inadequate and therefore the political responsibility in our country has failed and failed. That's why many people ask themselves: Yes, how can it be that, after the BSE scandal and after many food scandals in the past, we have not managed to guarantee or guarantee food safety and make it comprehensible where the food actually comes from, which in the food packaging is all contained in ingredients. It is basically for a country as highly developed as Austria and for a country as highly civilised as Austria, with such a huge administration as we have in Austria, an evidence of poverty that we have not yet managed to meet these wishes and demands of consumers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The carnivorous company in Carinthia, which has committed such a crime, has admitted on its own that it has been processing horse meat in its sausages for many years. But it was only because of an anonymous display that this came to the public. Not the controllers, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, not the control system in Austria has revealed this failure and this enthusiasm for winning, but it was an anonymous ad that brought it to light. This is therefore a failure of policy and nothing else, a failure of control bodies. Also, responsibility needs to be addressed clearly. It is the head of state Kaiser von der SPÖ Kärnten – the SPÖ candidate for the country day elections taking place in Carinthia on Sunday – who would have to bear the responsibility for food safety in our country Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you will. He has completely failed as far as control is concerned. From my point of view, he is also politically responsible for this scandal. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want to go into a parliamentary offensive today and show these misdevelopments in the food industry. All the politicians of the past – no matter what responsibilities or responsibilities they had, from the Minister of Health to the Minister of Agriculture – have repeatedly demanded that there be an understanding of food. Full transparency has always been required – alone, it has never happened! Consumers in our country – Austria! – are uncertain as never before. No one is now able to read on the packaging or research where individual products actually come from. All of this has become unclear for many, because there is a flood of quality seals on the packaging. There are 91 quality seals in total in Austria. The consumer has long lost the overview. He has also lost faith in the fact that these stamps of goodness actually live up to the promises. We therefore need a generally valid seal of quality in Austria – a seal of quality which we have already had, which has given the guarantee and the assurance that in the packaging is actually what is in it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This seal of goodness, ladies and gentlemen, has disappeared because many food companies have developed their own seal of quality. “Made in Austria” – let us remember this successful seal of quality, which Austrian products have awarded over many decades! This was a guarantee and a guarantee that Austrian products have successfully come into circulation. At that time, trust in Austrian products was still there. In Austria, we need a clear, transparent seal of quality, which makes it clear that the product contains 100 percent of Austria when “Austria” stands on it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's the central demand it's about! Then: The AMA seal – so to speak, an extended arm of the ÖVP – is not what consumers actually want, especially since they know that up to a third of the ingredients do not have to come from Austria. I repeat: Up to a third, the ingredients of products on which “AMA” stands do not have to come from Austria. Therefore, it is so crucial to tell consumers clearly what is inside the various finished products or sausage products, because no one, ladies and gentlemen, understands that animals are raised in Romania, slaughtered in Spain, sold in Holland – and then landed in any sausage in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No one of consumers can understand where the individual ingredients come from. It is therefore necessary to introduce this seal of quality on a voluntary basis, but with strict controls. I say quite consciously: voluntary, without compulsion – but if “Made in Austria” is on it, then 100 percent of Austria is in it! That's why I'm going to: The controls would also intensify in this point what would light a turbo for Austrian products. Before Austria came to the European Union, we did not have to import pigs or cattle. Today, there are thousands of cattle and pigs that we suddenly have to import, and the domestic producers lose income year after year. That's what I'm talking about. But no man has any interest in looking at the farmers and the local producers, especially the ÖVP, that party, which actually represents the peasantry in our country, but ensures that they perish year after year and earn less and less, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The second thing I'm starting is the competence jungle. We'll see how the hot potato is pushed back and forth on the government bench. No one suddenly feels responsible for it. No one is here in the position of the decision-maker and says what really needs to happen now, not even the Minister of Health who has taken head-shaking behind me. I hope that you will take up some of our proposals and finally become active in order to put an end to the seal of quality in Austria and make it clear to consumers as well as to the allocation of competence – and not to ensure that the competences in our country are constantly pushed back and forth between the federal states and the authorities and no one takes responsibility. The third point I'm starting is the punishment: We have little criminal frameworks that really help to prevent such food scandals by deterring them – because penalties from € 20 000 to € 40 000, ladies and gentlemen, which are so to speak, in some food frauds and producers, can be calculated at the final price and therefore not really dissuasive. We need a higher criminal framework! We may also need prison sentences for those who cheat on consumers and who not only sometimes work with fraudulent intent, but also cause uncertainty and produce harmful products, ladies and gentlemen. The displeasure of consumers is great. We have already brought this displeasure to Parliament and in a resolution on 18 November. It was discussed here in November 2009. However, since that day, ladies and gentlemen, no action has been taken, so we demand that we not only cry “scandal!” and call for change and call for it, but that we here in this House, as legislators, finally take action which once and for all prevent this abuse and these fraudulent intentions of food producers, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Why, I ask you, does something have to happen until something finally happens in this house? Why does a huge scandal always have to be caused until we finally take action? I believe that it is now time to ensure that we can never really guarantee food safety to people in our country, even if we can at least ensure that food, on whose packaging is a controlled seal of quality, is also controlled and that the consumer who pays a lot of money for it also has the safety that Austria is inside and that there are products in there that are not dangerous to life. That is why we are going, and this must be possible in an all-party consensus in our house: to tighten up the controls – I say that again – to carry out stricter controls, to stop the rage of the seal of quality and finally to reintroduce this seal of quality “Made in Austria” so that the consumer can again have confidence in the products he gets to buy in the food markets. This is our appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, as a legislator: not only to always promise people in marketing speeches something great, but Finally, to take action and to lay down the craft for those who are on a fraudulent level.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e5329	Mr Stöger spoke on a preliminary opinion. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e5350	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is good that the title of today’s present hour is not “pferd meat scandal”. Why? – What can the horse do for the unscrupulous re-eticettery of its meat beef and that this also appears in sausages and burgers for many processors and dealers? [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: thematic error!]] – In the meantime, almost all European countries and third countries are affected by this label gap. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, in all European countries, food authorities, police, high-speed criminal authorities are working to find out how cheating, tricky or at least negligent has been done. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, now! Where were they before?]] Let me say: This is a Europe-wide problem of conscious false declaration and thus a conscious deception of consumers, and this is deeply criminal and condemnable. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What do we do about it now?]] Pony meat, ladies and gentlemen, is basically nothing bad. In Vienna, the horse-leaver cheese is even one of the dishes of the local cuisine. I am concerned that consumers have the right to know what they eat. And it must be made clear to consumers what consumers are doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: understand what it's all about!]] European labelling law ensures that, in principle, the meat in the ingredients list must indicate the species. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, I should like to point out that we have 150 000 different foods in Austria. And each of these 150,000 different foods must be correctly marked, whether it costs 99 cents or 99 €. Each food must be marked and correctly marked in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What happens if they don't?]] To this end, we have in Austria a control plan which the federal states must implement, and we ensure that every year on the basis of results. [[Abg. Grosz: He worked “super”! He has worked “tadelless! ”]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What are the consequences?]] I made it clear for the first time that there must be a food safety report. I have introduced this because transparency is important to me. Only with transparency towards consumers will the situation improve and it can be understood how many controls are carried out. And when problems arise, I also arranged special controls. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: When?]] This transparency did not exist until 2010. Now we know that in 2011 we carried out 71,500 operational controls that we have examined 32,000 samples. And there you can already find out: 0.5 percent of the samples were harmful to health, but 4 percent were misleading. In other words, a large number of cases concern cases where consumers are also deceived. However, it should also be noted that these rates have declined compared to the previous year. I have introduced that the AGES must also be publicly informed when food has harmful ingredients. That was not the case before. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Food Police are monitoring risk-based in Austria. And one thing has to become clear to us and be clear as well: Quality you have to create. With controls, quality is not achieved. We must ensure that entrepreneurs who place products on the market only produce them in the best quality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When scandals fly, it is because monitoring has become better that the analyses have become more accurate. And they show you can't rest. We will certainly not rest, but we are working on further optimizing safety. This requires, above all, modernisation of control systems at European level, including in Austria, because one must be clear: We have global trade flows, and if we have global trade flows, we cannot monitor them through regional control. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Why not?]] The current label gap shows, and this becomes clear that it just takes too long for you to understand the flow of goods so you can find the contaminants. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is fraud, not a “swirl”! That's big-scale fraud!]] European food law, ladies and gentlemen, is harmonised in Europe, the market is harmonised. We need European answers! We need an electronic tracking database – it is a command of the hour – so that the path can be documented from the raw material to the final product. What is it like at the moment? – At present, every producer must call the authorities the supplier and tell them where he sold a product. With a chain of up to 14 sales it takes days for it to be comprehensible. We have to stop using this paper economy. We now need a Europe-wide database that can secure it by digital means. I have also said this several times to the European Union, and I have recently informed the new Commissioner so that we can have a rapid tracking opportunity, and thus a rapid response capacity is also needed to clarify dizziness and fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you can act quickly, you can also protect the many - and most of them are such - Austrian businesses that produce fair quality and are the fair companies, also in the meat industry. Everyone suffers from a few dizzinesss. [[Call BZÖ: Fraud!]] If we have a European database, we can also reduce the time spent on controls, and we do not need to sort notes, but we can do what we want to do, namely increase the frequency of control in terms of safety. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A little bit about the European Union: We have called for an extension of the designation of origin in the Consumer Information Regulation. Consumers want to know what's inside their products. I have always called for improvements in the discussion and enforcement of the designation of origin in the negotiations on the Consumer Information Regulation. The origin identification of meat has been implemented in raw products. We made a decision through Austria in 2010. Unfortunately, at the level of the European Union, we have not succeeded in extending this to processed products. I do not hide, there are many, many brakes in the European Union. There are brakes that have been fought against the Austrian position here. Nevertheless, it has succeeded in ensuring the designation of origin for meat. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have supported countries such as Portugal, Italy, France, Greece. When I hear the discussion now, I assume that this scandal will also contribute to the fact that Germany may change its position, and I think that there will be a rethinking in the European Union. In any case, I will stick to my line to support and fight for an extension of the mandatory designation of origin, and I have once again proposed this – I have already mentioned it – to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Tarns and culprits must not be a cavalier's crime. There is a lot to be done at European Union level, but there is also a lot to be done in Austria. That is why I am going to propose to Parliament, to you, ladies and gentlemen, to change the penalties in food law. I want the maximum penalties on labels to be increased from € 20 000 to € 50 000. But I also say it quite clearly: The punishments imposed so far are a pang. We want higher penalties, and at least we want to introduce minimum penalties on repeaters. I would particularly like us to adapt to drug law with regard to criminal offences, that if food is counterfeited, we will also introduce judicial penalties again. We had this until 2006. I'm in favour of us raising these penalties again. Falsque and systematic tricks to save costs to make profits, ladies and gentlemen, are not allowed to pay off. Therefore, I will also take action to ensure that there is a deduction of profit, of the unfairly acquired profit. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Our control system is good, but it is expandable. Above all, we must in order to be in the 21st century. ==References====External links== You have given an order to how we can put food monitoring on sustainable legs. This is about optimizing the use of resources, for example, that professionals take over the special tasks. This required a Federal Food Office. We also need a rapid intervention force for rapid action in the acute case, a so-called crisis task force. But this needs a constitutional change, and this constitutional change can only be decided in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Well, do it! Put it in front of you!]] What we can do to improve control is to establish a database, a network of all the research bodies. For example, the food authorities do not know what happens at feed level. For example, the food authorities do not know what is taking place during groundwater testing, and thus the drinking water authorities cannot do anything about this information. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This means that there has to be a constitutional change, that one has to take a step here, because the Austrian federal states are not prepared to take a step further. But perhaps this scandal also contributes to one step further. I do not give up on this because I am convinced that nothing is as successful as an idea whose time has come. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the law of quality which has already been mentioned in the government programme. With a few reliable state-of-the-art marks, real qualities were best recognized, and in addition, the 'Gutessiegelgungel', which we have in Austria – which we unfortunately have – was illustrious. I have seen the motion for a resolution on this subject, which the House has decided to do, as an order to do something here. I've dealt with the question of what we can do. The law should set out a number of key points which should apply equally to all signs, such as the basic criteria, the procedure of recognition, the recognition of quality marks by the relevant Federal Minister of State, independent controls, transparency regarding criteria and users and, of course, annual reporting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, food producers are small and medium-sized enterprises and generate the majority of food value added. Austria cannot rise in a EU market with 27 Member States in the price struggle, we can only play a role in quality competition. A state quality mark would help to identify the good quality of Austrian products in competition, both domestically and abroad, and that is the strength of Austria's international competition. Safe and correct marks are the minimum legal quality throughout the EU. The legal requirements must be raised. This is only very slow in 27 Member States, which is always the smallest common denominator. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Really?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Aha!]] If we could also distinguish the better Austrian quality, then we could also come crediblely to a higher quality of food. We would remain competitive, so we could help farmers and farms with state-of-the-art marks. Beliefable, transparent, independent controlled. – I would like a quality mark for the properties free of genetic engineering, for animal protection tested and I would like to highlight the healthier choice of food. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Trust yourself! ... more transparency!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who is against it? Do it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If I may wish for something else: I wish that the AMA mark is a future-oriented state quality mark according to old law and that it will also be extended to processed foods. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do it!]] Let me conclude by saying something: Yes, the current scandal in Europe, triggered by criminals, has irritated many consumers. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: But you gave them the security again!]] He has irritated them because people have a right to get what is stated on the food. The backmen and backwives, if they exist, are punished in this fraud – and they are clearly punished! – but at the same time this is also a chance. The scandal puts pressure on the preventers in Europe, pressures that there is a better labelling, makes pressure, more quality and more information for consumers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] You can't cross over there anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who are the preventers?]] [[Abg. Bucher:... the Preventers?]] [[Abg. Strache: Can you call the preventers by name? Who are the preventers? We would like to hear the preventers by name!]] Let's move these preventers aside together and take the next step! Consumers have also deserved this.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e5700	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers according to § 97 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. First, Mr Mag. Mag. Maier speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e5742	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Horse meat is not harmful to health, but its processing and non-labelling is fraud against consumers. What we are currently experiencing at European level in almost all the Member States of the European Union is a reminder of organised crime, where horsemeat is distributed across countries, where distribution channels are hidden, and ultimately beef comes out. I limit this from as small cases as those in Carinthia. This is probably the greed of a single carnivorer who imported horse meat from Canada. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Europol is in the process of clarifying this fraud with food. What do we need at European level to prevent the repetition of such incidents? Some of these measures have already been proposed by the Federal Minister. Only one thing we certainly don't need – and I want to address Klubobmann Bucher; I share many of his demands, I don't share only one requirement –: “Made in Austria”, High House, we don’t need in this form anymore! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, we need that!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher keeps up the copy of a newspaper page on which “Made in Austria” can be read, among other things.]] I can remember when, years ago, there was an alliance of the Greens and the Freemans with the Social Democrats against "Made in Austria", and do you know why? – Because only 50 percent of the value added was required in Austria, and there was no regulation in the case of “Made in Austria” where the raw materials came from. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] And I'll tell you all one thing: At that time there were the great manipulations. Here in plenary we have discovered exactly that, and that is why I say quite clearly: Such a scheme, where value added in Austria is of 50 percent, and then “Made in Austria” stands on it, with raw materials coming from abroad, we do not need it here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So what do we need? We need an extension of the EU Information Regulation. And I would like to say something very clearly – I refer to the 2009 request: [[Abg. Bookbooker: Exactly!]] I would like to thank Mr Alois Stöger, who, during the negotiations, represented the clear position which we have decided unanimously here in this House. To make it clear who at the time were the preventers: It was Germany, it was the Netherlands, Sweden and Spain. It was the same German Minister for Consumer Protection, Ilse Aigner, who is now going to say: Yes, I can imagine that there is a mandatory designation of origin for all raw materials too, the same minister who prevented this from happening at European level in 2010 and 2011. What else do we need? We need an EU-wide traceability database with a digital route to find out who the responsible are, when it comes to manipulations, or also to food safety problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] [[Abg. Strache: Take off the back and forth!]] And what we still need, High House, ladies and gentlemen, is the following: There is the European Rapid Warning System in food. This European Rapid Alert System refers only to unsafe food. This works, but what we need is also an extension of this system, which is also being informed when it comes to label fraud. And that's what I'm doing at a central point: In 2005 the LMSVG was accepted here in part by the then government parties without reservation – one can also read the speeches from the liberal side. It was at the time the colleague Rosenkranz, who expressed the opinion that this law protects consumers from being misled and deceived – and we now see that this is not the case. Mr Krainer and I, we presented this precisely and clearly here in 2005. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] What do we need? We need an information obligation from the authorities. Consumers need to be informed when labelling failures occur! And now I say something I also said in 2005: Under the current legislation, the Authority does not even have to inform consumers if the GMO is not complied with. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Together, we are called upon not only to provide safe food, but also to ensure that consumers are not deceived by a lack of labelling.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e5849	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e5870	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on TV screens, on the live stream on the Internet and on the gallery! I think we are dealing here today with a subject that concerns very, very many people in our country, namely consumers who simply do not want to be deceived, who want to get honest products and who want to know very well that what is on it is also in the food, in the products. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... prevent!]] I believe, Minister of State Stöger, that much of what Mr Maier said earlier, you have in hand – if I remember that we were here a few years ago and have debated this list of scandals for a long and broad time. We have heard from you how many food controls there are in processing plants, and at that time we have insisted that there are obviously far too few controls. On the other hand, however, farmers who care for healthy food in Austria must take very strict and very complex controls. – Mr Federal Minister, you are invited to act there! As far as you're concerned, what you're calling for here is that we need a law of quality marks, I'm telling you, that's a distraction maneuver. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Moser and Dolinschek.]] We have a quality mark. We have a very good seal of goodness, namely the AMA seal, and this scandal that we are talking about today is not a scandal of goodness. It's about deception, it's about fraud. If you, Minister of State, say: Pony meat is basically nothing bad, that's a delicacy!, yes, please, I wonder: Then why didn't this good man from Carinthia write that in his sausages there's horse meat inside, if that's so good? – Because he simply deliberately led to deception. Also since – I have heard this today, but I would like to stress it again – control has failed. Mr. Landesrat Kaiser of the SPÖ in Carinthia has failed. There should have been controls! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Grosz.]] Now on the subject of quality criteria, because the Federal Minister repeatedly tries to position himself towards quality criteria. Of course, that's very kind. Consumers want high quality, which is no question at all. But when we speak of a seal of goodness, namely a recognised seal of goodness, which the people to whom they have confidence know, then – and today you have listed everything that this quality mark should have – we speak exactly of the AMA seal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tadler.]] And then I do not understand, Minister of State, why you are constantly trying to suggest that this seal of goodness is not a state seal. – This is a legally anchored, with a two-thirds majority of the quality seal. There are independent controls, and the social partners too have a very large share. That's why I don't understand! I would like to mention once again the quality criteria you mentioned earlier, which are clearly the criteria of the AMA seal: understandable origin, birth, cultivation, mast, slaughter, processing in Austria – this is a criterion for the AMA seal – or high product quality, hygiene, nature-reliance et cetera – these are criteria for the AMA seal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber]] If it's said today, Well, there are other ingredients inside, for example in a yogurt!, yes, I would like to know where our bananas or our kiwis grow. This is also a deception of the consumer by suggesting this to the consumer. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein:... strawberries!]] The last thing that the AMA seal has and what you, Mr. Federal Minister, have also mentioned – so I do not understand your criticism and your distractions at all – are independent controls, self-control and foreign controls, product analyses and independent control bodies. Mr. Federal Minister, don't distract! Get active at last! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Yes, you prevent the seal of goodness! They're preventing it! That's ridiculous!]] We need a clear traceability of meat and other products for the area you have to cover. We need clear indications of origin for the legal regulations and not for the quality awards beyond the legal regulations. And we need in a first step a labelling of meat in finished products and in a second extension with a designation of origin. – And that should be launched at European level, that is no question at all. I would like to express my express thanks to Mr Berlakovich, who, in the last Council of Agriculture Ministers, has called for a passport so that it can be understood where the product comes from, where the meat comes from, where the ingredients come from. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's a joke!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is the one who stands on the brake with both feet!]] [[Further calls to FPÖ and Greens]] I'd like one thing: In 2011, Mr. Stöger, the Minister who is behind me, because he is responsible for food controls, submitted a five-party request here for a reorganisation of food controls. So far, that hasn't happened. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – Mr Federal Minister, please become active!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6005	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6026	Madam President. Minister Stöger! Ladies and gentlemen! More and more citizens are really great about such developments, and more and more citizens are saying that it is bad enough that horse is present in the Lasagne, but it is also bad that donkeys in politics at the level of the European Union make such fraud possible at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, the method, including the system, is also a development where you have to say that you fail at various levels. And if Mrs. Tamandl turns out here and praises Minister Berlakovich, then that was the joke of the day, you really have to say that. This has been on the brake for two years or more, with both legs, when it comes to ensuring improvements in the field of seal of quality. Of course you have to call that by name! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Many people in this country can also remember when in 1994 – before the referendum, when you remember – the red and black propaganda roll came into operation and was then spoken of by the Austrian gourmet shop, which was then to develop. Today, the situation is different. The whole European Union and its Austria, if you want to, have become a certain “result user”, and the food industry is not necessarily well-known. And we also experience that, especially when it comes to food development, the European Union always has legal directives in place in such a way that large companies have something of it, but not necessarily health and reason. You have to say that quite clearly and clearly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, there is also action according to the motto and acts: Either horse or beef, in the stomach everything comes together anyway. - That's the motto. Of course, it is fraud and, of course, fraud has to be stopped – and this requires clear rules and also consistency. zen. Anyone who cheats and gives false information must expect appropriate penalties. It's therefore nice and right when you say it also needs appropriate increases, but: The increases must be so dramatic – even in the first time fraud and not only in a repeat state – that the person who commits fraud must also really expect such massive consequences that, if possible, he does not dare to commit the first fraud at all. You'll have to sit there! In the case of foods, which are particularly sensitive and where we have special responsibility, you really have to work and implement something here. Of course, the food industry, and how to deal with it in the European Union, must be critically addressed once again by transporting food thousands of miles, washing and back. – Yes, what is reasonable about that? That's where I wonder where there's the big call to stop it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] These are the unreasonable developments that we have today. Of course, the sense of this kind of action is obvious and has been rightly criticized by us over and over again. The scandal of equine meat is only a placard symbol for many, many developments in the European Union in this context. This system, if you want to do so, is fundamentally sick and also changing. But it is truly amazing that all this is happening in the eyes of the European Union, a European Union that makes different legal requirements, invents all possible regulations, and also prescribes everything possible for us – probably soon as we have to cut the toenails and other insanity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] There is going to be everywhere, in the most diverse areas – even at the incandescent lamps! ., given a regulation on a permanent basis for the best, but in this area you are sparse and completely wrong on the road. There is an all-powerful food industry that you are not prepared to put in the barriers, and only when this system has such growth, as is currently the case, but then you simply go to a few placebo debates and maybe to some change. You just have to highlight this critically! Of course, the whole thing has to do with a basically missing agricultural policy in the European Union, because it now promotes industrial agricultural development, and that is a wrong way. Food has no high priority in the European Union, at least no higher value than goods of all other sectors, and that is the basic problem. For the European Union, it makes no difference whether food, wardrobes or television sets are transported to Europe. She doesn't care! That is why I say that we finally have to change the way we deal with food clearly and also take it more stringent by law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is a need for a control system, which is to be improved, there is a need for a criminal framework for fraudsters who are raised accordingly – but not for the repetition status, but if one is cheated, then immediately at the first fraud state a correspondingly high consequence has to be established so that, as far as possible, the first fraud is prevented. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Of course, there is also a need for a labelling obligation, a quality mark law, origin and content to be indicated. And I wonder why the SPÖ is so against “Made in Austria”. We are optimizing the framework so that this framework is also better formulated accordingly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] “Made in Austria” is a good advertising and certainly no disadvantage for Austria. Of course, it is important to protect consumers and farmers, and Mr Berlakovich has unfortunately failed in recent years.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6156	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6178	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Federal Minister! They have explained for a long time now that the most important goal is that consumers have a chance to know what they eat. You now had ten minutes to explain what you want to improve, but unfortunately you didn't convince me that now something will turn to the good. The fact is that we do not have the slightest chance in the case of finished products to recognize what is actually going to be done here – and that should be changed! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You said horse meat wasn't a problem. I would have liked to know, though, whether my lasagna won in the dressage race in 2008 or not. I would just have liked to know, and in this sense there is also a need for action. If you look at how the system works at the moment, you can see that the system itself is inviting you to fraud under this high price pressure. How does this work for finished products at the moment – Lasagne, Fascinated, Meat sauces, Gulasch, Chili con Carne? Even we don't always cook fresh, do we? Mr. Deputy Head, you too are probably sometimes using finished products for your family. [[Abg. Head: I rarely cook!]] – They rarely cook, okay. These finished products contain meat parts that come from slaughterhouses throughout Europe, they are processed in deep-frozen quarters of 1 x 0.5 x 0.1 meters, and in these frozen meat quarters there are remains of up to 1 000 animals. There's no chance at all to see where these meat parts came from. Together with the philosophy that meat products in particular must be as cheap as possible – a philosophy that has been represented for a long time in Austria – this leads to an immense price pressure and is simply inviting fraud. And that's actually the system that's changed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is therefore very unfortunate that the Minister of Agriculture is not here today. He has announced very broad and very detailed what he does not intend to do at the Agriculture Ministers' Meeting, namely to enforce the famous passport. I would've been happy if he had been there today to tell you what actually came out. We are concerned that it is a purely intentional statement. The Commission is now examining, and the risk that nothing will come out is relatively large. He could have explained a second thing to us, the Minister for Agriculture. Dear Mrs von der ÖVP! I feel it is an insolence when you stand out here and say that since 2009 there has been a mandate from this House, Parliament, a seal of goodness, a reform, and we all know – you know that we know – that the Minister of Agriculture is blocking it – and that is really an insanity! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think we agree on the goal: There must be a regionalization again. We all do not want food that has thousands of kilometers on the bumple and ingredients from seven, eight, twelve countries. [[Call the ÖVP:We want!]] We don't necessarily want passports and interrail tickets for food. We want regionalisation again, and that is to say, we have to start with the development of rural areas and look at the fact that high-quality products from the region are also really well marketed. This too is also a task of the Minister of Agriculture. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the subject of seal of goodness. So the famous “Made in Austria” – that has already been said by a previous speaker – is only more on a single product, and that had 50 percent value added in Austria as an exclusive quality limit. Unfortunately, this is impossible to make safety. Also, the AMA seal you have praised has a very great beauty defect, a huge beauty defect, namely, that genetic engineering may be used especially in pig marketing. We just made a test again, we found in the pig feed, in the so-called soy food almost 80 percent Gensoja. [[Call the Greens:80 percent!]] This belongs out of the pig feed, but there is also the ÖVP, and above all also the Minister of Agriculture, that we can change it. The cattle have already succeeded, and the pigs have to succeed. The famous AT – this is a stamp, and everyone believes the product comes from Austria – is a pure battle stamp. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] These are exactly half a million pigs that are imported, the more than 100 000 cattle that are imported, which are then slaughtered in Salzburg or elsewhere – and the consumer and the consumer believe that this comes from Austria, because there is an AT stamp on it. With these partly extremely misleading and not fair labelling rules, it is clear. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want food from the region with as few kilometers as possible on the bumple, we do not want an interrail ticket for food. We want the consumer, the consumer at all, to know what he or she eats. And I believe that animal transport is generally abolished, because if you are allowed to transport live animals only to the nearest slaughterhouse, then some problems in European food law are solved by themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6274	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6295	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Why does something always have to happen in Austria, so that it will finally respond? In the case of food fraud, in the mislabelling, Mr. Federal Minister, I remember the wine scandal, where there was no grape in the wine, we responded, and we came to the quality; away from quantity, to quality. We had the BSE scandal, we had the lists just recently, because it turned out that there was nothing inside in the Hartberger Quargel except artificial products. [[Call to the BZÖ:Minister also fails!]] And now we have falsely declared meat, falsely declared eggs, even pasta. At present, we do not have an Austrian seal law, which clearly regulates what designation is permitted and how regional designations may be advertised. Thus, the term “farmer sausage” should be reserved exclusively for direct farmers – but it is not, as the example in Carinthia has shown. [[OBJECTIVES]] For example, the red-white-red flag, the AMA seal, says nothing about the origin of the meat, but only about the processing in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl]] - And that's exactly what's going on. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are currently importing in Austria more than 500,000 live pigs, more than 100,000 live drivers that are carnated for slaughter and processing to Austria, and the processed products, meat products, will then be placed on the market as Austrian quality products. [[Abg. Eßl: This is consumer deception what you do! That's consumer deception!]] That is exactly where this misleading and the deception of consumers takes place, and that must change in the future! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] In the case of the cattle, it is still the case that everything can be traced to the slaughterhouse with the earmark; in the case of the pigs this is not the case, but also there it must be improved. If meat is on the market in Austria, then it has to insist on the country from which it was imported, where the birth, where the rearing, where the mast, where the slaughter and where the processing took place. This is much more difficult for the finished products such as Tortelloni or Lasagne. Where has this been processed, where does the dough come from, where has the finished product been manufactured? This will be very, very difficult, but we have to get there that we explain to the consumer: Where does this meat come from, where has it been processed? That must also be declared, because otherwise everything is different misinformation. It cannot be that consumers are deceived and deceived. [[Abg. Eßl: What you're doing now is consumer deception! What you are doing now is consumer deception, my colleague.]] Mr Federal Minister, I think I have read in one of your broadcasts, which is marked correctly, no longer costs. That's the same opinion I'm also: What is properly marked can no longer cost – only the scams must be laid the craft, and that is the point! [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. Eßl: This is consumer deception what you do!]] What we need in Austria – but not only in Austria; worldwide, especially in Europe – is that this cycle finally ceases. Today we transport food across Europe – you can ask any long distance driver who transports food – from Holland to Spain, from Spain to Hungary, to Bulgaria and back to Austria. Some palette is opened everywhere, a plombe is opened, something is taken out and then transported again. And no one can follow where the origin actually is, you only know where the final finishing took place. We need a quality seal law, Mr. Federal Minister, which includes the elucidation of origin, the aspect of regionality, the application and the freedom of genetic engineering. It is important for me that this is done to ensure a reliable orientation where the product comes from. We currently have 91 different seal of quality in Austria – this is a seal of quality, and it belongs up-to-date. We need a name that actually helps consumers to focus on where something comes from and to know what's in it. In 2009, we had a five-party proposal here in the house, in the Consumer Protection Committee, we agreed that the Federal Government would send a bill to the National Council, "which contains clear regulations on quality marks to ensure sustainable, and/or otherwise high-quality food products, respectively. The service shall be marked by a mark of quality.’ [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Nothing has happened to this day. Now I ask the two parties that sit in the government: Why do it? You're not here, why are you blocking each other? At last, make nails with heads!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6429	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6450	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Now it was a little loud. [[Abg. Eßl: (in the direction of Abg. Dolinschek) That was consumer deception now, colleague.]] – Mr Eßl, are you calming down again? It doesn't matter to us from the Stronach team – say: don't meat – what happens to our meat – very good, stretch, very good, very good! [[Abg. Strache: There are horses from Canada at the Stronach!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Or – now again a small quote, Mr. Strache – as the power politician Bismarck said quite openly: “Laws are like sausages, you better not be there when they are made.” – Does that fit? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Again – since Mr Eßl was so excited about the AMA –: No one knows what she's actually doing. If the AMA were to communicate its tasks in the sense of transparency, or to make it clear clearly who identified what, the Minister of Agriculture would not have to look for a control mechanism. What's the food passport supposed to do? – Mrs. Tamandl is gone too, no one is there from the blacks. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] As we all know, a seal of quality alone is not a guarantee for pure Austrian meat, even for horse meat. The AMA does not even check the horse meat according to its own specifications. That is, such an AMA speaker, not a meat scandal at all, but a marking scandal. We have heard today, there are 91 or 92 different seal of quality; Mr Minister, you also spoke of this seal of goodness. But are there such large tolerance limits that they are almost like a consumer deception, Mr. Minister? From you came the reaction to introduce higher penalties immediately – but what benefits do we benefit from the higher punishments, ladies and gentlemen, if there is no comprehensive control? Colleague Glawischnig-Piesczek of the Greens has said that in Salzburg the transports of live animals are particularly "good" – namely not at all – controlled. – I can confirm this with regard to the 80 000 bovine animals that are being marketed in us. I can only give you that right! Mr Eßl, you have said that our regional food has been left to eat. If you buy in retail, you should pay attention to the red-white-red AMA seal, which guarantees Austrian-rich origin. Thank you, Mr Farm Chamber President! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Who else can be believed, or who can be trusted? “Austrian wants () to know what they eat” – not only in the Lasagne – we have heard this more often today – but also in the sausage, it was said in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”. “The food group Spar () would welcome stricter rules for processed products. In particular, ‘the value-setting components’ should be identified’, according to the Spar Group. “At least the country in which the animal is raised, kept and slaughtered should be declared.” We from the Stronach team are really asking the AMA once again to use more transparency in the designation of origin of the food and to ensure that the consumer's confidence in domestic products remains and is growing again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6539	Mr Spindelberger is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6561	In this scandal at the beginning it was really just the talk that Romanian meats were guilty of this scandal, it has now become apparent that intermediaries as well as large businesses have their fingers in the game in these criminal machinations. Even Luxembourg-based companies have supplied half the EU with quantities of falsely declared meat, deceptively deceiving millions of consumers. In the meantime, as we all know, this meat scandal has overrun almost the whole EU, and there can be no excuse for such criminal activities, ladies and gentlemen. We therefore need an immediate improvement of the control system, without if and but! I am really grateful for the present hour here in the House because we have the opportunity to explain our ideas. We want to point out how it is possible to put a bar on these machinations. Mr Klubobmann Bucher, if you are here today recommending that politics has failed and call for a higher criminal framework, then allow me to point out that it was you – then under black and blue eight years ago – who acted more than negligently by decriminating food law in Austria at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] What is happening now is, in fact, the effect of this missing client policy, where fraud, counterfeiting and tricks in the food sector have been put down as a cavalier crime – and that is really the great madness! [[Abg. Grosz: And otherwise you'll be fine – or what?! Today, a Member of Parliament says to me!]] That is why we need one – and that quite quickly – that is to say, a guaranteed food safety in our country. In order to ensure this, a control system must finally be introduced, including the 21st. In the 19th century, because as a consumer, I have a right to the fact that if I buy something, that's also inside what's on it. This is the minimum that can be demanded as a consumer, and only, as the Federal Minister Stöger correctly mentioned it, can it be possible to remedy a modern law on signs. For me, that means that the AMA seal must be extended immediately to processed products. In addition, we have to deal with this, which has already been addressed by several speakers, in order to announce the struggle for this seal of goodness, in accordance with the motto: Less is more! We therefore need a network of data both at Austrian and European level, because it really cannot be assumed that the AGES, that is, the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety, does not know what quality checks are carried out by the agricultural market Austria. It cannot be known that food monitoring results are not known. That's the way we're working here. We also need a much more stringent control system, ladies and gentlemen – and we are already at the next crack, because every change in the existing control system requires the consent of the countries. I find it unfrozen when Mr Tamandl is making himself here and trying to take the Federal Minister's responsibility, probably knowing that the federal states are responsible for these controls. These, as we all had to experience, are not ready to talk about it despite multiple origins. This smoothed-up process of the federal states is negligent for me. I am more and more impressed that in many areas of politics the federal states only prevent a lot from blocking, and especially in the field of food safety the fun stops for me. [[Abg. Kickl: be the case with the ban on speculation!]] Furthermore, we need in an EU where the free movement of persons allows us to cross borders without passport, therefore, not a food passport, but an electronic route, that is, an EU-wide database that guarantees the designation of origin from the raw material to the final product – and that of all processed foods, and not only meat. In order to deter the Gauners and Ganovans, who add food to their products, and thus make a lot of coal, from such machinations, we need draconian maximum penalties. However, these actions must also be prosecuted, because it is ridiculous if you get 200 or 300 € of punishment for such crimes nowadays. Food counterfeiters are supposed to fear they're going to jail when they're caught. Therefore, my request to the ÖVP: When it comes to food safety, don't always think Party-politically! Consider, too, the millions and millions of consumers and follow the agreement reached with us in the Government Agreement by finally adopting a control system and a quality mark law of 21. By the 19th century! Do not prevent a modern food law or, as yesterday in the Council of Ministers, even the judicial persecution of such gullibles and criminals!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6623	Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6645	Madam President. Dear Minister! First of all, I would like to say that this horse meat scandal is a European scandal and that only national frameworks and directives alone have not been found in other countries. However, I would also like to say that this is not about Austrian raw materials, and that is why it is not an agricultural scandal in Austria, even if this is what some people like to represent here for political reasons. We have a complex with two major themes. On the one hand, organized international crime, which provides the cheapest food, and on the other hand, it is a market that has a huge price pressure and thus ultimately absorbs these goods. Here is the question to ask: Do food always have to be so cheap? The prices are in constant discussion. Even the Chamber of Labour as a representative of consumers is constantly calling for cheaper and even cheaper food. That is not fair, because in the end the demand also creates supply. And as a guide for our consumers, we have labelling obligations, and I should like to say that they are extended. We have a sufficient ingredient label, but we only have a designation of origin for beef. Here we have the EU Consumer Regulation, which would be provided for from 2014 onwards, since it would also be more accurate for pigs, poultry and sheepmeat. I believe that this process should be speeded up in view of this scandal. But also with the processed products, which were these tortelloni and the lasagne, belongs to the origin of the main components, whether it is meat, milk or cereals, declared. However, the AMA seal guarantees Austrian quality. I would therefore like to point out to the House that we are here in charge of the AMA Act to the institution AMA, what is being examined and what is to be done. That is to say, it is a state institution, and here we have also defined what is the AMA's control mandate. All flags and flags, this wild growth, all that is red-white-red, are abandoned. It can only be red-white red on it, even if red-and-white red is inside. This is what we need to work on. Minister! They also set up a working team on fraud protection in the Codex Group. There are already results here. Why are they not implemented? And on the demands for higher punishments: In the end, there was a case of falsely labeled eggs, on which the defendant was sentenced to three years of imprisonment. There are already high penalties. In the end, however, these must also be declared by the courts. We finally have to stop calling for even more control, because I think the control is already enormous, instead we have to see where it is controlled. We must finally start by focusing on proportionality. I am a strong advocate of the rule of law. However, we already have to cut the big rags on the brain instead of permanently persecuting the little ones with draconian punishments. If a meater in his shop has a pitch somewhere today, he has a bigger problem than all these big institutions that are talking today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Quality Seal Act and the demand for higher conditions than in other European countries is a pious wish. But how should this work when we finally come back to the market together? We confess to free trade. Austria is export world champion in many agricultural categories. We are very good at our products, so we also want free trade, and finally we want to trade with our products. The scandal caused by these criminal forms in the processing and sale must not be carried out on the back of the farmers. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Because you don't do anything! The ÖVP is just blocking!]] The question is: Who are you targeting with these controls and who are you finally meeting with? An example from the poultry industry gives us the answer. Here we have the highest standards within the European Union. The result is that cage eggs should have been banned for a long time. However, these continue to enter our market. And our production suffers. Puten installation goes back all over Austria. And this is not only true of the farmers, but also of the consumers, who are now in the poultry sector, I think, more Italian Masthendl applies than we can cover. This is the reality of the market. We need to be able to produce. Mr. Stöger, you once again wanted to impose higher standards in the area of pig production for Austria two years ago. If at that time the head of state of Lower Austria had not opposed your ideas to Dr. Erwin Pröll, then every second schnitzel would not be from Austria anymore. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with FPÖ and greens.]] We would have been pushed out of the markets in the pig sector. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] _Send You're not at the farm stand! These damage is irreversible. You can't turn on or off a farm just like it fits the market. And only one can really offer our consumers the highest possible food safety, and that is home production. Here we know the Austrian citizens on our side and can already use the AMA seal today to refer to a state quality mark that guarantees the consumer Austrian origin.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6699	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6721	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The control failure in Austria regarding horse meat can be described quite simply as follows: If something had not been found by chance in Germany or in Europe, we would not have any discussion here at all. There is therefore an absolute failure of control in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We only got into it when something was found in other EU countries. Mr Health Minister, this is also manifest in Austria. We have also prepared a question to Minister for Agriculture Berlakovich, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Consumer Protection, and have also asked the question: Where do all these horses land? There are 120,000 horses in Austria. There are no statistics on this. We now finally want to have information about what is happening with the horses in Austria. If they are exported, are they processed? There is also an absolute failure of control. [[Call the ÖVP: It buys the Stronach!]] - She doesn't buy the straw, even if you'd like to. We simply want to have some information about what is happening to it. There are no controls. Farmers are controlled to the bedroom. But here in the food industry there are zero controls. It is neither controlled by the AMA nor by the AGES. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now – the speaking time is limited – I come to your much praised AMA seal. I brought it here, everybody knows it. [[The speaker holds up papers.]] Red-white-red, as you ask, red-white-red, we need nothing else. And now I read from the guidelines of the AMA seal for processed products. With this quality mark, red-white-red, it says: Raw materials from Austria, if they can be produced there, a maximum tolerance range of one third. You can market a third of other products under the AMA mark. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's where you're raining up!]] You always come with the reason that pepper cannot be produced in Austria. Call me a processed product containing 30 percent spices! There's no such thing as that! AMA seal: 30 percent foreign meat possible! That is the truth as far as this sign of goodness is concerned! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Then go out, you lobbyists for the meat mafia, and take a position here! But don't roar out! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] It's even more wilder with the AMA mark. What kind of mark is that? [[The speaker holds up papers again.]] I'll show this to the audience at the gallery. What kind of mark is that? – Every consumer would think: AMA characters. The Directives contain: Only produced in the European Union. A third may come from non-European countries. There may be meat from Argentina, or there may be products from Chile. This is the quality mark of the AMA marketing, which always pretends to represent only Austrian products. There is also the following quality mark: AMA marketing for France. [[The speaker briefly keeps a document up to date.]] I wonder what the Austrian authority for France needs a mark of quality. Then we have one from Bavaria. We're friends with Bavaria. Here too there is an AMA mark. The products must come to two thirds from Bavaria. Where the rest comes from, it doesn't matter. And the most curious mark of goodness, I'm telling you, as far as AMA marketing is concerned, is this quality mark. AMA signs kept in grey, you have to read that one. The ignorant consumer would think there's a print error, it's not printed in color. Each consumer assumes that it is an Austrian product when it bears this quality mark. And I'm now reading the guidelines for this AMA mark: Unlimited international raw material purchase possible, no country-specific processing and processing. In a product sold under this AMA mark, everything may be included. These are the directives, and that is not the case. [[Congratulations and Calls at the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] Please, with this fairy tale stop that in products bearing this quality mark, only Austrian meat is inside! That's just not true! That is why we are on the side of the Minister of Health in the committees, who believes that we need an Austrian quality mark. Where red-white-red stands, 100 percent – and not 30 percent! – Austria be inside! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion: It is a stepwet of history when the Minister of Agriculture says he will now wake up the brakers in the European Union in terms of a quality mark. You can forget that! Someone who has been on the brake for two years or probably five years with both legs, when it comes to making a good mark for Austria, we send it to Brussels. Mr Health Minister, I ask you to go to Brussels and represent the interests of consumers and farmers, because this is about Austrian products. This is about the Austrian farmers and this is about honesty to the consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6847	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6868	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers at the gallery! You've heard some really exciting things now. Mr Jannach has read from the AMA's regulation. Maybe only for those who are completely confused now. The background is, of course, because of competition rules, the AMA has, as it were, also produced these signs purely technically, so that it is not, so to speak, distorting in accordance with European Union competition law if one wants to protect origin. You see that this is about European regulations, Mr. Federal Minister, and that we too – and this is the consequence of this fact – need an Austrian seal law, so that the AMA sign can be really consistent and clear. Mr Jannach's criticism of AMA's seal law is justified. We share them because we can only control and check what is legally regulated, ladies and gentlemen. That's the challenge. The regulation takes place either at European level, then it is uniform in Europe, or at Austrian level. The Minister has referred to one where I have to give him the right, and I also need to protect him from false criticism. The 2011 Food Safety Report was a novel. Here, the entire Austrian food control has been summarized in a report – Mr Maier nodds. It has also played a major part in this debate and has contributed to this report. I would also like to mention that there are also Members who have been fighting for years, fighting together for an Austrian seal law, such as the colleague Maier and I. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] We also made a five-party request in 2009. And now the consumer deception is – and this is the scandal – that the representatives of the ÖVP are going down here and doing so, as if the Minister were alone in the government and could decide alone, while you are here voting on applications for an Austrian seal law and your ministers are doing everything to prevent it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a political scandal first category, but really! [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Concrete: What do the greens want? We will also make a request today and are also prepared to discuss it. There are also proposals from the BZÖ on the table. There have also been concrete proposals from Mr Jannach and others. Mr Minister, you have given a key speech today, and we hope that you will continue to implement it by June. We expect this from the government. They have also adopted it in the Government Convention. We expect you to regulate the elucidation of the origin, the protection of animals and the freedom of genetic engineering in an Austrian seal law and that you also set out annual controls and sanctions in it, because then consumers can be sure of it, okay, there are state-tested signs and I don't have to try to read the small print for hours, because we all know that this is usually not the case when shopping, but that you really do it only in exceptional cases, where you really want to check it carefully if you can still read it. [[Congratulation and reputation of the Abg. Strache: That's great.]] We know that citizens who do not wear glasses when shopping are really overwhelmed because the label is so small. Yes, Minister, that is the challenge and that is the challenge for the government in this policy area. If you do not make it, I expect at least you to decide here in this legislative period a joint request with the opposition – I say towards SPÖ. We can do that. If the ÖVP is not ready to fulfil a government agreement, the opposition will declare itself ready to make a decision, and we will get the two-thirds regime in order to establish a task force so that in the future in Austria there is the possibility that one can react immediately in scandals. We need cooperation with the country authorities – no question! We do not want to abolish them, we have local competence there, but we want a rapid intervention force, and you can count on our voices if you, the SPÖ, make such a request. In any case, we will make every effort. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Our proposal is specifically aimed at introducing this Good Quality Seal Act, introducing the designation of origin, so that only Austrian raw materials, namely animal origin, are inside, if they are red and white-red-boosted products. And we want – and this is important – in the area of gastronomy, the restaurants, where a lot of Schindluder is now being driven, also a clear label, at least with regard to the valuable ingredients such as meat, milk and eggs. If a open country is used somewhere, this should also be on the menu. If a bio-product is used there, a bio-residue, then it can already be evicted according to the food code. Ladies and gentlemen! We are ready for this set-aside in food safety law. Let's get together! Let us make a common request. We have brought in our report and we can then discuss it in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6923	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e6946	High house! Federal Minister! I ask you what else needs to happen so that you can finally show professionalism in the field of food safety. I'm seriously asking you: Is it not enough that in 2009 – at the end of 2009, at the beginning of 2010 – you were politically responsible for the fact that in Austria, in the course of the Listeria scandal and the control failure of your ministry and the country control agencies, we had to report nine deaths and more than 30 diseasees, as you have approved with your control system that a Hartberger Farm Quargel has come into consumption and threatened human life in that country – a Hartberger Farmer Quargel, which has been made from German pots? And the only thing he experienced in Hartberg was the addition of Listeria, with this product having nothing to do with farmers and Hartberg, as well as products can now be found in our Austrian shops, which have nothing to do with beef because they have been used with other types of meat. In one, Mr. Federal Minister, I give you the right to: The horse is not the problem, but since the wine scandal – and Austria has not learned anything about it since the wine scandal in food safety – the consumer cannot be sure what is contained in the products of daily life at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'm just heilfroh that this time it was only horses or just in the Hungarian salami ass. What would have happened if we thought maybe dogs would be added to our food or cats because it's even cheaper? This is all possible, Mr President, because you and your authorities have been failing in this area for years. Mr Federal Minister, I have today brought with me resolutions by the Austrian Parliament, majority resolutions, in which you are on the 8th. In July 2011, a proposal including an assessment of the financial impact was requested for the National Council by the end of May 2012 and a draft law on the reorganisation of control along the food chain. You are also in a resolution of this National Council on 20 July. In May 2010, I quote: The Federal Minister for Health is asked to “make sure that the protection of fraud in the field of designation of origin is improved at national level”. What happened? – Nothing has happened! A whole legion of consumer protection ministers since the meat scandal in the 1990s, the former consumer protection minister Prammer – now President of the National Council –, currently Stäger, is trying to improve control in this area. However, very unprofessional action is being carried out, and the Austrian population is extremely weak. That is why I brought you today a rocking horse – I am actually against such visual languages – but this should symbolize that not the horse is the problem, but the horror you have been doing with Austrian consumers for years. [[The speaker hand over a rocking horse to Federal Minister Stöger.]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just put it on the seat of the Federal Chancellor, the horse! That's it, too! The rocking horse is the new Federal Chancellor!]] They stifle the Austrian consumers by providing control safety, but they do not guarantee your authorities, thus making consumers an X for an U. You, Federal Minister Stöger, have admitted that for a few years now the over-examination of the inspection of meat processing plants has ceased to make the veterinarians. In Austria, it was always good practice – and it was also good for the control system – that the overview in meat processing plants was made by dedicated veterinary physicians. Now she is making the famous “Woman Schmauswaberl. ” They continue to allow EU-wide lay viewers to carry out food and meat inspection in slaughterhouses and not, as before, the Verified Veterinary Doctors. Yes, then, what will anything else in the field of food safety come to us? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Federal Minister, you failed tragically in 2009/2010: Nine dead and 30 sick still complain! And today you have once again been transferred to the fact that you have not learned anything from this scandal in 2009/2010, that you simply negated resolutions by the Austrian Parliament and that you have made absolutely no contribution to the food safety of the Austrians. I promise you today that we will meet again in two, three years, sit back here again, discuss again, because in another food area in Europe, one will insist that panic, dioxin has been pushed or mismarked, that food control has been undermined, animal diseases are found in the food and that the consumer in that country cannot rely on what you are predicting with your checks.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e7010	Mr Markowitz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e7031	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens and at the top of the audience gallery! You will probably have thought today, we are at Villacher Fasching, but I really have to give Mr Jannach the right thing. If I look at this fullness, yes, these “heards” on AMA gold seals, I have to say: The population can't really know it anymore! I think our duty is to ensure that the food is marked. Where an AMA seal is on it, there should be a hundred percent Austrian meat inside. It can't be that the AMA is nothing but a post-supplier for old, semi-restraint ÖVP politicians who don't need anyone anymore. You know that very well! Otherwise, we will delete the documents to all employees and look at whatever lists they were on – in the EU election campaign, in the Vienna election campaign, wherever. That's what we're doing publicly, and we're putting it on, so we don't have a problem at all. That's the pure mailer! The population is lying and cheating. To what we have experienced in Carinthia: We have looked at the website of these Carinthian sausages, which has now been turned off. It says: an original of Carinthia. – However, the horses were imported from Slovenia via Styria. What we never want again is for the population to lie and cheat. The minimum necessary is an Austrian seal of quality. Mr. Minister, you have our fullest support! We also go with the Greens and the Blues, because it cannot be that we deceive and deceive the population. It's also about the consumer. Otherwise, we have to ask ourselves: What is this commodity worth? Is it worth the price we pay? It must not be that the ÖVP is simply saying that the consumer is guilty because he wants to pay less for the meat. It is the minimum that we pay Austrian quality when Austrian quality is inside – if that is really so! The fact that, as we have heard before, dozens of different types of sausage and meat are inside, is a disaster. So the minimum I expect is clean control, Minister. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is also the minimum that you can find a solution together, but I simply don't see that at the ÖVP. We've seen it today. What will be the next scandal? – The organic eggs to Easter, which were cooked and produced two months ago and are now being recolored? I'll give you that in writing, Minister. Let checks be carried out, and you'll see that half of the Easter eggs are paralysed! I would like to ask you now to learn from this scandal and simply to make more samples and to tighten the guidelines and the penalties so that such a thing simply can no longer happen. That is the minimum we expect, Minister. Then you also have a partner in us, and we will support you in that this will also be implemented. If the ÖVP continues to block that way, just because it's about a few posts, I wonder what it really is about. But the population will remember that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Please? – Let’s see, up there, please, look at the colleague above, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Hornek: You went to Stronach to have a post!]] A covert high up three, from AMA seal – just a pure post chess up there – and he's yelling down there now! That you're not ashamed! That you are not ashamed that you have made the Austrian farmers beneficiaries of welfare and subsidies. [[Abg. Hornek: Incredible!]] Otherwise, the whole thing would not go out. The farmer can no longer survive. Think of all the transports that, as we have heard, thousands of miles through Austria and through Europe are being driven until the meat arrives somewhere. Why don't we produce the meat in Austria? Why is not slaughtered in Austria? [[Further call of the Abg. Hornek.]] – My uncle is a Fleischermeister, and you up there don’t need to tell me anything just because you’re completely unsuspecting and apart from stupid calls at the ÖVP is nothing inside at all. [[Abg. Hornek: But you didn't learn anything!]] It's about the consumer! The consumer in Austria is protected. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is our duty to implement this here in Parliament in such a way that fresh, clean, orderly goods come to the food plates of the Austrians. I mean, we've been elected for that. This is not about politics, politics and nothing else! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e7128	Mr Markowitz, I would like to urge you to be very careful in your choice of words, so that that principle, which applies here in the House, is really guaranteed, namely, to preserve the dignity of the House. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] – In doing so, I would like to take a look at it for the first time. [[Abg. Petzner: You would have given me an order call!]] Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, spoke once again. Speaking time: maximum 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e7166	Madam President. High house! Allow me to give you a few more clues. First: You don't need to be afraid that the pizza won the dressage ride – no. Horses slaughtered in Austria or Europe shall not be sport horses. Sports horses are excluded. I'm saying that quite clearly. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who controls?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Secondly, when it comes to the health stamp with the ‘A’: It is correct that shows that an Austrian veterinarian stamped the meat with pleasure. It can also be non-Austrian meat. It is important to me, however, that an Austrian veterinarian takes over the controls. Finally, I would like to thank you for the great support in the speeches, including in the further development of controls in Austria. I am also expressly grateful for the fact that there is great support for doing more in the field of quality marks. - Thank you for that. I invite everyone to take the next step, too, that we give farmers the opportunity to have a quality mark in Austria for the topic of “gentech-free”. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do it! Do it!]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: “Invitation!” An invitation is!]] Austrian companies can submit this. We work better in the animal welfare sector. There too we could use a quality mark. The healthier choice would be good. Overall, I have ensured that the Food Safety Report informs consumers that we are bringing more transparency. We have introduced the designation of origin at European level – by the way, ladies and gentlemen, in a corresponding font size, so you can read it without glasses. It shall enter into force on 2014. I would ask you to take part in the fact that at the next meetings of the National Council, we can greatly increase the penalties for fraud. We will soon give consideration to the draft law. Overall, however, I would like to point out that Austria has food safety. The food has never been as safe as it is now. The 150 000 foods that are controlled are in good quality in Austria, and I thank all the honest establishments that offer Austrian food in great quality. I also thank Austria's trade, which through its purchasing policy also contributes to the fact that Tarner and Falses can no longer appear on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e7239	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:50:02]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e7263	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:50:38]] Objections against the agenda as set out in § 50(1) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e7506	We are now going into the debate on the objections of Mr Magistrate. Kogler against the agenda. I would remind you of the provisions on this: a maximum of three words per group, each with a maximum of 5 minutes of speaking time. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e7533	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of our request is to ban speculation, which has been decided in the Committee on Budgets in four legislative amendments and an Article 15a Treaty. Klubobmann's head has objected to why I urge that, because we are against this now and in our opinion, we are indeed far too far too far-reaching and weak so-called speculation ban. [[Abg. Head: That wasn't my reason!]] - I'm telling you why. It must be possible – and it is even necessary and useful – for us as constitutional legislators to debate such important and essential matters in this House, even though there is no two-thirds majority in this area, because it must also be in your interest to know, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening at all. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] It was also in the Committee on Budgets that the debate among Members could hardly be held, because there were permanent interruptions and negotiations – indeed! – who have aimed at this – and to the role of these federal states will still be involved – constantly the desires and desires of – and I say it exactly as it is! – continue to take speculation angry national leaders on the agenda. [[Abg. Eßl: But go!]] That's the background! And this is also the background to why a weak and bad regulation itself does not even find the way into the agenda, because even the weak and bad is still too much for the upper federalists of red and black, because it is obvious that they want to continue as before. And this is debated here, because we are the Constitutional Legislator! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Short back-up: “Never again Salzburg!” – This was only a short time ago, and that was rightly demanded. For Christmas the most wonderful wishes! Where did they come from? I do not want to try the cheap quote, but the Constitutional Legislator has more to do than run around the so-called holidays, how great we will not make the new constitutional laws, so that this “Never again!” will become real and never happen again as in Salzburg, where we have not known or long known how many billions of people have been put into place and how the money has been spent – and this is due to a legal situation that we have to answer here! The countries themselves will not do it, that is obvious! They don't want to, they may not even be able to, but we have to and can, I hope at least. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] That is why it is our task to shape the Constitutional Laws here in such a way that what you claim to do is that you want to implement it, and what you are likely to do in your own constituencies – rightly in the matter of yourself – that never again will be speculated on tax expenses, will become reality – and especially in the federal states, because the Confederation is no longer doing it anyway. We did the consequences four years ago, and there was also a scandal. That is why it is so important that these rules, which actually exist, are transferred to the countries and to the big cities. And now the question is: What does that fail to do? What does it fail to do here not even have to do with a half-hearted and bad regime? [[Abg. Strache: Red and black heads of state!]] We want to record this, and finally the legislator must wake up the constitutional legislator, and that is why we need to debate it here today, even though at the end we do not have a two-thirds majority, and that is right! But if we discuss it in detail and in public, pressure will continue to arise, so that in one or two months we have something on the table, a speculation ban that deserves this name too, and not some Larifari. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now even the Larifari is already too much, because it is already too much for the countries or the national leaders, as they all call it, Mr Pröll, Mr Wallner et cetera, that there is something in this House that is something different from an Article-15a Treaty. This agreement, which you have concluded between the federal government and countries, is more apparent than being, and on this basis the national leaders want to continue to sink. To the Article-15a Agreement, which would also be here: If you looked at her, you'd see how terrible that is! Nothing is regulated, nothing is forbidden at all. This has nothing to do with “Never again Salzburg!” and “Never again Lower Austria! ” – That’s what is added now, because it’s just as much about the fact that the loss of speculation of over 1 billion to this day is a loss of profit, because a lot of money has been liquefied and charged – without any rules, without anything, anything, everything has been hidden! We have the possibility and the competence here, because we simply have transparency, and we also need to perceive this competence, otherwise we fail as constitutional legislators. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] Then it really must be called: Never again Lower Austria, never again Carinthia, never again Salzburg! - That's not how it goes.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e7643	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e7666	In one point, we are completely in agreement: That these incidents, which have occurred in individual federal states, should never be repeated and that appropriate steps should be taken to do so. But it cannot be assumed that nine potential criminals are sitting in the national governments of the nine federal states, Mr Kogler! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] What you have seen here is a fact: that we are working here and that we have to work on common solutions! Let this happen briefly, for example, this famous Land-Hypo in Carinthia, with 20 billion € liability framework, where the taxpayer had to pay 3 billion € up to now. [[Abg. Strache: What the Court of Auditors criticizes because it was a Bavarian bank! This is a scandal with Austrian taxpayers! But the committees of inquiry...!]] I hope that the voters and the On Sunday, voters will give an answer to this, so that this will never be repeated again. This must be documented on Sunday, especially by selecting the party responsible for it in Carinthia. That's the first point. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The second point: Discussions have been held here, in which the President-in-Office of the Council, Moser, whom we all respect, has also brought criticisms. These criticisms have been addressed, and I have already said in my first opinion today: This is acceptable to us, we can carry it. If the President of the Court of Auditors agrees with the one who has also been sitting at the negotiating table and who has been present with advice and proposals, I believe that this will be accepted in the public, too, that we want to achieve rules that allow for a genuine review and that there is genuine transparency. Here I come to another subject as regards this charge of housing funds in Lower Austria and the very creative constructions in this regard. This was discussed extensively in the election campaign in Lower Austria. However, in view of the way in which it is worked, it cannot be said that Lower Austria is the hort of transparency. There's a confusion: It is confused with transparency. This is the problem that prevails in Lower Austria! [[Abg. Street: How does it look in Vienna? How's that in Vienna?]] That is why I can tell you that we want this regulation so that in all nine federal states – and the socially democratically-led federal states have long begun to reorient themselves and to find new regulations... [[Abg. Strache: AVZ Foundation in Vienna! Speculation in Vienna! Cross-Border-Leasing in Vienna! The track, the canal, everything you speculated in Vienna, and the citizens are allowed to pay it!]] – You should know something more: that we are also in favour of a transparent, as uniform as possible accounting system. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You don't keep that from being that way, but you should also have a slightly more positive relationship with positive developments. I can say with pride that this is really the case in this context and is therefore to be implemented in this way. Therefore: If you do not yet have this approval, then of course this will not be on the agenda today, but we will not let it go. [[Abg. Strache: Please go, I said there was a two-thirds majority!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: We will still be able to discuss here!]] We're not going to let go, even after 3. However, we are going to take action to ensure that these regulations are in place, and we are going to enforce them, and I can tell you today in all clear terms. [[Abg. Bucher: You have to tell the coalition partner!]] What we don't want is to speculate on taxpayers' money. And there are really measures to be taken to counter this. There can't be a casino! There can't be sucked around! [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, never!]] Falsification allegations such as in Salzburg, tax evasion accusations in Salzburg, then the criticism of the use of the housing funds in Lower Austria, and the top of course are the 20 billion at the Lande-Hypo Carinthia, which is actually to be examined by dozens of prosecutors. These are three examples, and we want to try on the part of the legislation to counter this in all its clarity and massiveity. There has now been negotiations in Parliament, at the level of the budget speakers, and I think they have taken a very good course here, which has wanted an agreement. I would particularly like to stress Mr Hofer, who has been very constructive on the part of the Freeman. And we are also trying to ensure that we can end this path together. That is our goal, that there is also a real ban on speculation. To this rumor, which is being spread, there would be some sort of socially democratic federal state that does not want these regulations: That's just wrong! There is agreement on the demands of the President of the Court of Auditors as a basis for this consensus. And the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group fully supports it. And we are in favour of that being really decided so that taxpayers and taxpayers can see, we have understood the message, we as legislators will do everything we can so that we do not repeat it, and we are genuinely committed to these strict rules.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e7803	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e7825	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Cap, you know I like you personally. I think you're a very casual guy in private conversation. But I tell you one thing, Mr. Klubobmann: If you have a little to do with Carinthia, you know, one doesn't get well in Carinthia, namely, from Vienna to shrug on Carinthia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Cap, you will see that this Carinthian bashing, now carried out by you, unfortunately also carried out by the ÖVP, will not lead to a good vote for your parties. And I can guarantee you that all of Austria is a republic, even Carinthia will not become an empire, and Mr. Kaiser will probably not get too good a vote in Carinthia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now it's the real thing. We have led very, very difficult and very complex negotiations to the ban on speculation. At the beginning it was so that with this 15a agreement you could not really achieve and implement what you actually wanted to implement. Therefore, the opposition in these negotiations has negotiated much into the financial constitution. We have not only dealt with the question of risk-related charges here, but have also said that, even if risk-makers, i.e. without risk, are concerned, no loans are to be made for these charges. This is now in the financial constitution. Or: We now have in the Financial Constitution the principle that there is no longer any financial basis for derivatives without basic business. It's inside, too. Then it was reached – and this was also the criticism of the President of the Court of Auditors – that the strict principles of OeBFA, the Austrian Federal Finance Agency, should apply to countries and communities. This is a huge progress and actually gives countries and communities a very narrow corset. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] All of this was achieved, and then it really was only about how the uniform accounting system is being created. And we need a uniform, comparable accounting system within the countries, in the communities. And that's where the difficulties started. We have always wondered that in the talks we have with the government parties, the government party A says there are problems with the party B, and the government party B says there are problems with A. Yesterday in the course of the talks, it was the case that some of the proposals made by the Court of Auditors were rather skeptical of SPÖ and that is why we could not conclude the talks. So, then one hour goes by, and then the SPÖ says, no, we're for it now. That's what the ÖVP says, no, we can't do that. So you can imagine how difficult this is for an opposition party that does not negotiate with a government, but with two parties that are different, and also within these parties there are still different currents. It is almost impossible to get a good result here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Water right!]] In fact, we did not want to vote today for this item to be included, because the question of water has not yet been resolved – we have said that we also want the protection of water in the domestic constitution – and because we had agreed in the Presidency if there is no two-thirds majority for it, we will not be dealing with this today. Only today do I hear from Mr Klubobmann Cap, there is a two-thirds majority anyway. [[Abg. Strache: Everything will be implemented anyway!]] Then I say, well, then we treat that too. It has sent out an e-mail today at 8.57 a.m. to the State Secretary of State, who has also made a great effort in the negotiations, in which he says that it is all clear that we can decide together today. Then I ask: Then why don't we decide together today to finally anchor a ban on speculation in the Constitution?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For one thing must not be, ladies and gentlemen: that the Federal Government does not rule in Austria, that Parliament does not make the laws, but that two governments of the whole Republic dance around on the nose – and the hot heads and pomps! Because these two Austria are actually ruling! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] Yes, to whom do we owe the strange national survey to military duty which no man in Austria needed? – Mr. Häupl! And who is going to prevent – and I guarantee you – final treatment of a speculation ban in Austria? Mr Pröll, who, like Mr Häupl, as the super speculator, is not at all interested in the ban on speculation in Austria! I guarantee that there will unfortunately be no positive solution after this election day on Sunday. We from the opposition parties, all of them in common, have made a very, very great effort to achieve a positive result in the interests of taxpayers, apart from all the party-tactic considerations. Unfortunately, it is a failure to understand the lack of the state policy of the government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e7918	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e7939	Mr President. High house! It repeats itself here with us in the house at regular intervals whenever there are elections in front of the door, the same acting [[Abg. Bucher: Not at the ÖVP!]] Things and facts are brought here from the federal states. It is tried to spread some of the facts here in front of the natural audience, also in front of the television screens, and campaign of election, which actually belongs to where the election takes place, in the case on Sunday to Carinthia and to Lower Austria and not here to the High House, here. The same thing every time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is exactly what you are proposing today, Mr Kogler. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Constitutional legislators are still us, aren't they?]] I usually do not chat out of negotiations, because they should keep a certain amount of confidentiality, but now go here to make a request to put something on the agenda, where you said yesterday during the negotiations, that we might take more time and discuss it further and then decide it better in one or two months, that is unfair, that is really not all right. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Say it!]] [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a very transparent maneuver. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have to fold your hands, keep your goss, don't you?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, of course, there is no one in this House who wants to experience events like in Salzburg anytime. There must be no more! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why it is of course necessary for us to get new rules for the use of funds in public budgets, that we also achieve uniformity in estimates, in billing, in other words in the country's budgetary law. No question at all, the figures must be comparable in the future. And there is also a great deal of agreement among the countries that we should make this harmonisation. Yesterday, too, consensus was that this will take quite a few years, because it took us, at the federal level, some time until we actually came to this very modern budgetary law. But it is a malicious premise, especially since the name of the head of state Wallner, as the current chairman of the LH conference, is to be taken into account here, the name of the head of state of a federal state, which has, of course, had the double accounting for more than 20 years, but for the reports to the federal government, the numbers still have to be converted to the camera list, since there is no uniform right. You can't blame him. Please, quite the contrary, there is Vorarlberg pioneer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: But he doesn't want a constitutional law! You have no idea!]] After the scandal of Salzburg, the Minister of Finance has responded exactly. It has asked the countries to a table, has negotiated with them an Article 15a agreement, together with Mr State Secretary, arbitration. It's signed by everyone. But it needs a constitutional basis, and we must create it here. [[Abg. May. Kogler: On the other hand, the heads of state are the problem!]] I also recognise that not only can it be a constitutional basis for this Article 15a agreement, but it also needs to be laid down in the Constitution, which in future will force the countries to make their proposals for their budgets according to uniform rules. There can be no doubt about it at all. But, ladies and gentlemen, I also recognise the fact that we have started a way together in negotiations with the countries, with an Article 15a agreement, even now that we are concerned, how to draw up these uniform rules, also to end together with the countries. That's no more than fair. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am really wondering about some speakers and some of the speakers here, that in such a situation, where one is on a very constructive path with the countries, with exceptions, but largely modo on a very constructive path, one is actually able to achieve this harmonisation, that, just because there was no final consensus in a few points yesterday, one is trying to misuse this for the election campaign. I am very confident that we will succeed in removing these last points, so that we can create clean rules that will ensure uniform budgets for the countries in the future, uniform accounts, figures that can be compared and will help us to prevent such abuses as in Salzburg in the future – and that we can actually decide this at the latest in the March session of Parliament. A final sentence to Mr State Secretary Arbitrators: What he did with this e-mail this morning is not all right, because he knows exactly where the negotiating position was yesterday. And that's to be criticized. I don't know why he's doing it. It's a very transparent tactical maneuver from him.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8081	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8118	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, you can come out here a hundred more times and claim that the Republic of Austria has helped and saved Carinthia. You know very well, and the Court of Auditors has confirmed it, which is a completely insanity that you have made by buying the Bayern, the Bavarian Landesbank the mortgage and taking the Austrian taxpayers into your pocket. That was a gross offense! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's the cleanery!]] And that'll have another replay. We will certainly discuss this one more time in this House. I promise. In the meantime, the population in our country knows very well that this was not necessary and that it was a nonsense. And if you're talking about 3 billion € of cost, then forget about it. You always have the municipal credit, which has now cost the Austrian taxpayer more than €5 billion, where SPÖler alone was responsible for it. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: The person responsible for this is in the Ministry of Education, Ms. Schmied!]] And I'll tell you that hundreds of times more, so that it'll get in with you sometime. So, now to the ban on speculation. Mr Kopf, your last sentence was significant, an expression of hurt vanity in principle – only because the Secretary of State has summarized yesterday's outcome in a draft and sent us, and at the same time you, to you. And that's where you say that's a gross offense?- Oh, my God! What we all want is to stop speculation once and for all. [[Abg. Strache: How is it at the ÖVP: Folding hands,!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] That's exactly what we always criticize: You feel hurt when you are not the first to know from your negotiating partner what to do and what there are proposals. For many months now, there have been efforts to finally prohibit, prohibit, and do everything possible to prevent such incidents like those in Salzburg. This was the confession of all the parties represented in the National Council from the beginning of the negotiations. And now you come in the last moment and say that we have found no agreement in one, two small sub-areas. – We could do this today in the course of the day! If we had been just before the success of the negotiations and had to negotiate today all day long, we could still decide in the allocation session. [[Abg. Bitch: If it were! They are miles away in truth!]] It's just your hurt vanity. You don't want that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A great praise to Mr State Secretary Arbitrators. He's never received any praise from me before, but that's right now. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A praise that the Secretary of State has once summarized all the concerns we have had in a draft, also taking account of the Court of Auditors' concerns at last. And now it is only up to the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen, to jump over their shadows only to the ÖVP and to push Mr Pröll to the side and say: This is a national interest, speculations are no longer allowed, either in cities, communities or in countries or at the federal level! That's what it's all about! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The second point, which has also come from the Court of Auditors, is to clarify once and for all how the accounting system in the cities, in the municipalities, in the countries, has to look like, as we have decided at the federal level in an all-party application here, that the federal budget law must be applied everywhere. From the outset, the Court of Auditors has criticised it and said: No matter what you decide, no matter what restrictions, it is not possible to control as long as the countries have the opportunity to hide and hide everything possible! Yes, what does a ban on speculation at the federal level bring in the constitutional rank if the countries can play a secret game with us? At last, be so fair that we can also say this out here and ask what we always hear when we talk together! The countries now have to submit themselves and finally accept the budgetary right at the federal level and abandon this princeship so that we can stop speculation at the expense of taxpayers!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8233	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8254	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! We believe that the agenda, as set out in the Presidency, should also be observed. That is why we will support the government parties here. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! - Oh, my God!]] No, it has been made so clear that if the outcome of the negotiations is not achieved yesterday, it will not be on the agenda. And that's what we're standing for. I do not think you have to do anything in advance, otherwise we do not need a President, ladies and gentlemen, because it should actually apply guidelines to everyone. I think that's important. In principle it must be said that this speculation ban on light, as it has been available so far, is of course not decisive. Mr Kogler himself in the negotiations yesterday – and it has already been discussed here – insisted that you sit back with the countries and remix the whole thing, since it has not been well negotiated. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, but that's why you can still discuss it here!]] You're right to let me know that we wanted to. I supported you there, because I believe that we should negotiate with the countries eye in eye and now do not decide anything simply in a hush-fush action so that you can say outwards before the elections, we are doing something against speculation, although in reality it is only half a thing. We don't want to. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But let us discuss it! Discussing does not mean: decide!]] That is why we do not want to decide today whether it is being discussed or not. I think it is difficult to discuss a legislative initiative here, which is then inconceivable. I believe that this is part of the negotiations we had yesterday, and we have already reached relatively far together. But, as I said, it would be important for the countries to be involved, i.e. that we look in the eye and not be negotiated there and there. I am asking the Minister for Finance that she has negotiated something with the countries in advance, and that they have not approved anything, I think it is a bit strange. So there's always some caution. Those who received the criticism of the President of the Court of Auditors yesterday know that the draft contains major shortcomings. That means, in principle, nothing changes. The countries have the municipalities, and the countries still have the opportunity to speculate. Then stories like in Lower Austria become loud again, after which a billion of housing funds have been speculated. I believe that this is what we have to put forward, because it is about tax money, which is hard to draw up by taxpayers. You have to be careful to deal with this. Mr Cap referred to the Hypo Alpe-Adria in Carinthia earlier. I will give Mr Colleagues to you. Booker right: It was not necessary to recover these from the Bayern-Hypo. But what he always forgets is the municipal credit that the taxpayer has cost – and that is not the final level – 5,8 billion € of hard-earned taxeuros, ladies and gentlemen! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's it!]] You should write that in the books, because you always forget that again and again, then you are quickly blind on one eye. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this whole thing needs to be further negotiated and that no Husch-Fuch action must be put in place. We are against this speculation ban light, which gives the countries a lot of scope. The deadline – which has been referred to – has now been shortened to 2018 in the draft by Mr State Secretary. We know that there are already example countries that have done the whole thing. In this context, one can once mention the Styria very praising, where one is on a good path. This has been in Vorarlberg since and ever since. I believe that the federal budget law should be a model for the countries in order to prevent just such things as in Salzburg and Lower Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We are called upon to consider this well, to take a reasonable approach and not to implement it in a Husch-Fuch-Action! I understand, of course, the situation, that before the elections one wants to signal the people that one is coming on a way to introduce the ban on speculation. I understand that in Lower Austria – where we have been speculated with taxpayers, that is fact – a bit of a mood should be made before the elections, I understand, but we have guidelines. We must talk to each other, we must try to reach a common denominator, and we can only do so in negotiations, as they took place yesterday, and not in a heated plenary debate, where the election campaign is overlaid.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8337	Next speaker: Mr Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8368	Mr President. High house! Mr Klubobmann Kopf, Member Werner Kogler is neither schizophrenic nor dishonest. Let us stick to what was yesterday in the negotiations: We from the Greens made substantial proposals yesterday in the negotiations in order to significantly improve what is available here. In particular, this concerns the establishment of principles in the Constitution, but in particular the improvement of the accounting system, which is necessary for the control to be able to implement a ban on speculation at all. But with what is now available, including what was negotiated yesterday, speculations will not be prevented – neither in Salzburg nor in Lower Austria! The ‘Casino Pröll’ will not be able to be concluded by these regulations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Minister of Finance has been asked several times – once in a urgent request, but also yesterday in the negotiations – whether she believes that these regulations can once and for all prevent speculation. To this day, she hasn't answered that. I think I can conclude from this – at least I agree – that it is a regulation that cannot enforce a complete ban on speculation in the current form. What are these gaps? First of all, they are the fact that we have an Article 15a agreement with regard to speculation and the ban on speculation, which is stated in the Financial Constitution, which has extreme gaps. I have already noted this last time, but I would like to make one more point. This concerns the absence of risk limits, which concerns missing risk buffers. However, this also concerns clear rules and responsibilities with regard to risk management and treasury, there seems to be a lot left open. However, this also concerns reporting and, in particular, the reporting system, which has been put into the hands of the Austrian Coordination Committee, which takes shape and content. What would be useful if the control was transferred to the Austrian Coordination Committee, to which a control group was set up, if only some time the Austrian Coordination Committee decided to decide on the form and content of what to do in these reports? We need these things now and now! It is also not enough to report individual financial transactions. However, the 15a agreement only applies to the reporting of financial transactions. That's far too little! What we need is to see how these financial operations have changed. We can only see this if we know what the market values of these financial transactions are, how the changes in the market value of these financial transactions are, and this requires transparency in the form of a modern accounting system that reveals everything it needs and should reveal in this context. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Mr. Klubobmann's head, you say Vorarlberg already has it all. – Yes, in the inner relationship, but in the external relationship, Mr Klubobmann Kopf, everything is not present! The Landtagsdelegates have no idea of the income statement there, they have no idea how the balance sheet is drawn up because they do not know the valuation rules. And that's what it's all about. Although progress was made yesterday on the question of the form and breakdown of estimates and financial statements, this was finally to be removed from the financial constitution, but on the other hand it was once again weakened in the form that this should no longer be a regulatory authorisation of the Federal Minister for Finance in cooperation with the Court of Auditors, but it has been taken back to a 15a agreement, and I know what will happen in advance. – Nothing will come of it, because, Mr. Klubobmann, you are in the hostagery of your federal states! [[Congratulation with the Greens]] This is also the reason why the results of yesterday's negotiations are not decided here today, which does not mean that I would be in favour of adopting these rules. They are far too bad and bring much too little to enforce a waterproof speculation ban in this country. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] If you want to close the “Casino Pröll” then finally free yourself from the hostagery of the national leaders and make a waterproof arrangement! We owe this to taxpayers. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8447	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8470	Mr President. If we look at the discussions that have been held at parliamentary level to prohibit speculation, then it is to be said that for most of the regulations there is the necessary two-thirds majority. For the definition of what speculation is, for what is allowed and what is not allowed, there is a two-thirds majority. That is, the speculation part, namely, § 17, is actually completed. In this, all parties are so close that you really have to try to see some difference. The only questions that were debated yesterday were the questions of a new budgetary law for all local authorities. There is a certain range here in the house, namely those who demand submission, who say: What we have decided unanimously here for the Federation – which I think is right, what we have decided for the Federation – must now apply to everyone! [[Abg. Head: Where Rossmann says this doesn't fit for Lower Austria!]] – I say once, whether the suit we have made for the union is really the right one from Bludenz to Gramatneusidl and from Zwettl to Bleiburg, I do not know either. That, in which we agree, is all of us, including the local authorities, that we need a modern budgetary law. The only question that is still being discussed is: Does that mean that the federal government is alone over the heads of all local authorities, or is there an agreement that one should agree on the principles together? In reality, we have very little differences in budgetary law, we agree that we want it. We have also decided unanimously at the federal level, because we think it is right that we have a modern budgetary law. It is true that not all countries and communities are almost 100% convinced, but here in Parliament this is no longer to discuss whether we consider it necessary and proper to implement it. That is also what my group stands for. The second question that has been debated is: When should it apply? – One has to say that we as a union have needed ten years and are still not finished. Although the federal budget law is valid in parts, all regulations and so on are not yet complete. One question was: For example, how long do you give countries and communities time to change? – One says four years must be enough, the others say six years or seven years should be given time to them. These are really those points of discussion that were open. We Socialists said yesterday in the club, it is so important for us to decide that we look away from the differences that still exist and say: Okay, we can also agree with what the liberals want. But we all know that we need at least three parties to do so. All six parties on Friday said that if there is no two-thirds majority to do so, this issue should not be put on the agenda, and I do not know why we suddenly differ from Friday to Wednesday in the morning. There is no necessary two-thirds majority here in the house. But that does not mean to me that it is now about saying who is to blame for not being on the agenda. It could be said that the Greens are guilty, they are all guilty, I am guilty – but that's why we can't do it because tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we have to get together seriously and honestly try to come up with a reasonable solution that finds a two-thirds majority here in the house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's why I'm going to fail to say who's to blame for not agreeing today. I believe that not only I, but also the representatives of social democracy have proved that we are looking for a solution constructively, and that we are also contributing. This has not yet been achieved, but we will still make our contribution tomorrow to a proper solution that finds a two-thirds majority, only because we are not far apart on the core issues. I am sorry that we cannot decide today, but I assume that we will be able to decide very well at the next plenary session. We are ready, and we make our contribution that will be possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8516	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8537	Mr President. Mrs Federal Minister, since we both come from Upper Austria and know the conditions there a little bit, I can tell you the following example: I was at an event of the Upper Austria Chamber of Commerce about two weeks ago, and I was probably the only “blue” sheep in a “black” herd there, according to the usual conditions of power. Interestingly, the ban on speculation was discussed there. It has been pointed out that at the end of the day, the ban on speculation can only be controlled if we have a uniform accounting system, a uniform budgetary law. All the arguments we have heard from my previous speakers have been put forward, and I also believe, Mrs Bundesminister, that we are quite in agreement. I have had the impression during the negotiations that you really want to do this. I listened carefully to all the Presidents, Vice-Presidents, Ingenungsmeisteren, Gremial Presidents at this event and then spoke and said: Yes, I am part of this negotiation team, and it will certainly not fail in the opposition. It will not be because we want to prevent this, I'm just afraid that there will be enough persistent forces within the government groups that want to prevent the whole thing. Of course, we want a doppik to be introduced. We want once a proper assessment is possible, because it is a difference whether you book a leasing rate as an operating issue or capitalize the whole, it is a difference as to how to evaluate an exposure, to the nominal value or to the daily value. And an Austrian comparison is only possible if one has a uniform budgetary law. The comparability of these data is also important with regard to the transparency data law. At the end of the day, I was right with my assessment two weeks ago. All the officials of the Economic Union have contradicted me: No, that's what we're going to do. It's going to come! I know, Mrs. Federal Minister, you always bring the wonderful example of the paper that I personally like very well. In each federal state, the paper in the hospitals is assessed differently. A federal state only records the exits at all, another federal state records the paper itself. – That’s anachronistic, that’s foregone. We must finally get away from this whole assessment. But then what happened? – We've been negotiating, we've all agreed. Today we hear from Klubobmann Cap, in principle everything is negotiated, we also hear this from representatives of the ÖVP. – Yes, then why don’t we decide? I can tell you why we don't decide. It sometimes seems to me that a hendl thief is the first to shout: Hold the thief! Of course, everyone is there, but in reality no one wants it because everyone is in the hostagery of the Duo Infernal of the Austrian domestic policy. The Duo Infernals are pomps and heads that both don't want at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These two don't want to look into the cards, don't want to see transparency in the accounting system at last – and they're getting up and saying: Njet! As at that time Khrushchev: Njet, there's nothing going on! I attest to almost every single negotiator in this round that he really wants to have a result, but they're all in this hostage. And this surprises me especially with the EIA, because otherwise everything that comes from the EU will be implemented immediately in Austria. Now! The EU wants a uniform budgetary law, but that is where it is walled. That's totally uninteresting for you all at once, much more important to you is that your power base is being cemented in the countries. Sometimes it seems to me in Austria as if the cock was racing with the dog and not vice versa. The ÖVP is hostageed by Mr Pröll and the SPÖ in Mr. Häupl's hostagery. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm firmly convinced after 3. In April, this whole legislative initiative will suffer a first-class funeral. We will no longer negotiate, there will only be more empty words – and on the route remains at the end of the Austrian taxpayers!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8597	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8629	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the Salzburg financial scandal was overrun, there was a political will immediately across all party borders: There is a need for action, we must prevent speculation with taxpayers! I think we have come a long way in the last few weeks. Mrs Finanzminister has very quickly called the federal states. We have a signed 15a agreement between the Federal Government, countries and municipalities setting out a number of very important principles, namely the principle of risk-based financial conduct, i.e. avoidable risks, the principle of strategic annual planning in the field of liquidity and debt management, the principle of the four-eye principle with a separation of treasury and risk management, and ultimately the principle of transparency, of complete transparency, which transactions are made. What we still lack is the constitutional empowerment that we also involve the communities. And in this context, there has been very good, constructive discussions with the opposition parties over the last few weeks. And I've always said it doesn't divide us very much. But, ladies and gentlemen, after what I heard here in today's debate, when it was said here, Mr Bucher, that the countries have to be subject, I must say: That's where worlds separate us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] There we are not far apart, but there we separate worlds, ladies and gentlemen. I'll tell you one thing: I am a great supporter of the political culture that we have in this country, from social partners to financial compensation: talking to each other. This has still been a good thing for the country to talk to each other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You refuse the conversation!]] I fully understand the federal states when they say: One thing doesn't work: First you negotiate with us for weeks, then a 15a agreement is signed by all, and then you put something in Parliament! – So, honestly, that’s not how it is! [[Abg. May. Kogler: You frustrate every session, what are you talking about?- Oh, my God!]] That means we are on the road well, but of course I understand the countries that say they want to be involved in that, as is the case with political culture in our country. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They don't even sit at the negotiating table!]] Mr Kogler! We could decide completely autonomously on the allocation of funds between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities – financial compensation – but we have not been doing so since 1945. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's exactly what it looks like!]] We adhere to the principle of the agreed financial compensation. That is, we have a political culture that has nothing to do with subject matter. Nor do we say that the opposition has to be subjected to the majority in Parliament. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] It is a principle of our policy to convince, to argue. And in politics, in a democracy, the principle applies: You can be a hundred times convinced that your opinion is the right one if you don't have a majority, that won't help you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] Mr Bucher, we do not subject anyone. We are supporters of political culture to talk to each other. Ladies and gentlemen! I am still saying – Mr Mag. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Then the ÖVP should have these billions!]] Kogler, I don't want to go into your double game at all. You know, I have said it several times, I very much appreciate you, but you and other opposition parties have submitted applications to the budget committee last week and also yesterday – and today you are asking why we do not decide today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: debate!]] Today, a member of the Stronach team has said: no husk! That's why I have to say that's a double game. These are sunken cards, Mr. Mag. Kogler. I really have to say that. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Not a double game!]] I'm really disappointed. We've had good conversations, even if you weren't there. I am firmly convinced that these are not discussions that have failed, but rather discussions that we will continue to hold. I would also like to say that Mr Hofer has also made very constructive contributions. We have here in Parliament substantially supplemented the government proposal. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That means “parliament” because you should discuss it here too!]] It does not separate us very much, but, once again, we certainly do not drive across the countries in our federalism understanding. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have to understand. You can't first invite the countries to make a 15a agreement, and then say, now we're doubling something more, you won't be asked. It cannot be, that does not correspond to our political culture! There's actually a bigger difference than I believed in the matter myself. In the matter we are already very, very close to each other, because it is really only about small formulations. But we all know the devil is in detail. Principles are relatively easy to agree when it comes to detail, it is usually difficult. But again: no submission of the countries, no country-bashing! And if there have been expressions like “Pröll-Casino”, “Geiselhaft der SPÖ” in connection with the head of state Häupl and “Geiselhaft der ÖVP” under the head of state Pröll and the like, I strongly reject that. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is the truth!]] [[Abg. Kickl: A professional expression!]] As regards Lower Austria: Ladies and gentlemen! In a few days, the Lower Austrians will give you the answer to what it means to have responsibility in a country. And the countries bear great responsibility. I turn and defend myself against this country-bashing! We have our responsibility, the countries have their responsibility. We need to work together.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8839	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8861	Mr President. High house! This was a show again, as the ÖVP sees politics: I would like to say a few words here in Parliament, but do not implement them. It's supposed to stay the way it was before. For 40 years each country has its own budgetary right, each municipality has its own budgetary right, and the effect is that the taxpayer has to pay for billions of losses, colleague stupid. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that's exactly what it's all about: Two national leaders lead this federal government to the gang band, not vice versa. - We're talking, we're ready to build bridges on the part of the opposition. We from the BZÖ have proved that too. We have made very specific proposals on the ban on speculation, on common budgetary law. So you have enough opportunity to put an end to this drive of the countries and communities, that everyone can do at the expense of taxpayers, what he wants, at last. You don't do it. Ladies and gentlemen! The ban on speculation is a command of the hour. The citizens don't want it anymore! Citizens don't understand that individual countries take up billions, borrow loans, and then go to the casino, like that happened in Salzburg. But think also of Lower Austria! Remember Linz, what happened to the swap business there! Think also of Vienna, dear comrades from the SPÖ, of what happened in Vienna with the Franken-Krebiten! – The citizens don't want it anymore. But I have to say: The talks were really very constructive. What Mr Schieder has done today was actually an act towards opposition. We know from the opposition that it will not be very easy to implement something together with the countries. We don't want to go over it either, we don't want it at all, but Justament stand points can't exist. Today, Mr State Secretary Arbitrator has sent us a proposal that is also agreed with the Court of Auditors – I quote: Our undivided consent is given to the amendment tabled – see Supplement – which is as requested by the Court of Auditors in the round of negotiations. And continue in the quote: That is why we hope that today's decision-making can take place in Parliament. Yeah, I hope so. But as it looks, we stay here again, because elections are and you are not ready to draw the relevant conclusions. We from BZÖ want a ban on speculation in the Constitution. We from the BZÖ want to standardise a uniform budgetary law in the Constitution, as the EU also demands. There is a directive for that. We have to do this. It is not a act of grace to the countries – no, vice versa, we must implement it in order to comply with the corresponding treaties. The result that has been on the table so far is really not easy, that is very complicated. We have federal constitutional provisions, we have simple legal regulations in the budget and federal financing law. There are two articles-15a agreements to discuss, since we will still have to discuss whether we want to have them, or whether we can't write them in simple laws. But all this to meet the countries, my colleague. There is also a legislative authority for the Minister of the Interior, who has also moved positively; I note this here. But I don't understand everything on the side of the opposition either. To the Greens: You've been in the ban on speculation, have been negotiating, and then you've been a little away again – and now you're back. Only yesterday, Mr Kogler said he wanted to move it, and today he says again that he wants to decide. So what do you want now? [[Abg. Brosz: He wants to discuss it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Tell me, you have something in your ears!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Let me finally fix it, Mrs Glavischnig. Not only talk about how the government does it, but do something, that is the command of the hour in the present situation! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Stronach team wasn't there at all. Yesterday it was there for the first time and brought out half a sentence. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The Stronach does not want to discuss at all! He doesn't want to talk to anyone!]] I have to say that you are really only the climber of this lax federal government and therefore approves further speculation possibilities by the federal states. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have tried to explain how complicated this issue is because of the various legislative instruments to be taken into account. The Constitutional Service has also explained this. It's not easy, but it's quite feasible. And that's why we should really do nails with heads here, I think. Who prevents us from deciding today? We have a second session, an allocation meeting, and could decide. And the black Peter, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, he's sitting here, with you! You from the ÖVP are preventing this! The SPÖ – I have to praise it – now wants to change that. The ÖVP must now change its party name to: Austrian cover-up party! We want transparency, we want control, we want uniform rules for households, so you can't get under the carpet – that's not what you want. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Come out, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, from your comfortable leather armchairs, and we will go together over the golden bridge we have built you, and vote for a strict speculation ban, a strict household law that makes the households of the countries and communities more transparent and controllable. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: The armchairs are not comfortable!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8969	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e8991	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We don't make a happy impression – if you actually agree on content, but don't do it. But it is election time, and the statement of Mayor Häupl about the “focused interoperability” in domestic policy sometimes comes true. I am glad that Mr State Secretary has made this clear in the media today: We're actually ready. And this exciting interplay, like the influence, we say once, of elected national leaders on federal policy, as Mr Kogler has begun, is, of course, a delicate issue. The core, however, is – and I strongly agree with my colleague: We have a federalist principle, we have in the federal constitution the division of competences and we have state legislators, but – and I oppose you, colleague stupidly – this does not apply to constitutional laws. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: But we have a political culture!]] We are meta-legislators as constitutional legislators, we are meta-legislators, that is, in this part this House has two-thirds majority in presence of at least half of its members to lay down the rules. And this also applies to the federal states! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: That's formally right!]] I would like to reject the evidence in this context, because that would be almost red, black and other federal states at the same time. That's very different. It is not so – Mr Krainer has made this clear – that Vienna wanted to prevent this regulation. There was a maximum discussion of how long one would need to adjust that. It is already very, very strong Lower Austria. And honestly, I'm saying this because you're from this federal state: [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Muted]] There is an investigation committee in Salzburg, there is an open discussion about how this happened, but there is no such thing in Lower Austria. I don't understand! Then a country captain and a councillor stand up and say: We have 800 million profits, while the Court of Auditors has already found a billion minus. There are foundations in Ireland and elsewhere. Do something! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Kaufmann-Bruckberger.]] Open it up! [[Abg. Höfinger: Opener is not at all!]] Take the chance, maybe next Sunday you can make a generation change after the loss of the absolutes! You can give them both away. Do you still regret Ludwig? - No, I don't. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Put in new young people! If there too is openness, then I think we will be easier with these things. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] The country doesn't do Pröll well. - That's for the election campaign. [[Abg. Hoefinger: You don't have to tremble today!]] Back to the matter with budgetary law! Many know that I have fought very much for the fact that we, including the Doppik, are making an accounting system that produces transparency. Let us remember how our budgetary law was before – when was that? – 2009 – 2009 we decided that – we looked forward! We should not even have written in the empowerment if it had gone to the countries that these rules also apply to the countries. We've achieved a huge progress. And my request and appeal to all those who contribute to the two-thirds majority – if not today, then in three weeks – is: Let us use this favor of the hour to come to a uniform public accounting system! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, please, let's do it!]] The last point: the question of the search for a game. In addition to bans, how do we ensure that this does not happen again? – This now goes across all the political groups, and the Social Democracy has voted in Lower Austria to sell the housing loans to locusts. That's true for all of us, I don't take anyone out. There must be no return to the idea that rational decisions are taking place on financial markets. Financial markets are per se not suitable for the sustainable economy due to the character of gambling – except for those who organise it. A Deutsche Bank will always win billions by making the bets for the others. I therefore ask you to think about how we impersonate ourselves, namely also our successors, that we do not believe again to have to balance something with bets. I also address this to the Greens. It is almost a cultural-political question that cannot be made as strictly as possible: What's it like with the socks? And just as Mrs Rathgeber said in tears that she would have liked to continue, so there are enough others. Let's stop her! My appeal to the government partner: ==References====External links== March the chance for new people! In the direction of FPK, I assume that this appeal is no longer necessary, since Mr Dörfler is gone anyway. Then we could perhaps do this after this Sunday under new conditions in even better form. I am confident because the voters and voters have often failed than some politicians.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9101	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9123	Ladies and gentlemen! We have achieved our first goal: We wanted this not to be negotiated and strangled behind thickly padded black and red doors, but to be discussed openly in the National Council. We have achieved this, and this is an important debate. However, we have hoped for more, because today Mr State Secretary Schieder informed us all about an agreement at an early stage, that the ban on speculation could already be decided in the National Council. And now I repeat the question and seek to answer it from the government bank: Why should the ban on speculation of the national leaders not be decided today? We know that there were two heads of state who said no: Michael Häupl in Vienna and Erwin Pröll in Lower Austria. Michael Häupl surrendered, and the SPÖ surrendered. This also corresponds a little to the nature of the SPÖ. Josef Cap, I'm asking you not to hurt me, but it happens that a party that tends to be egging is also once in the right direction. And I welcome it! The No comes exclusively from the ÖVP. We have a five-party agreement, we could decide today to ban speculation. And I wonder, Why does Erwin Pröll prevent the entire National Council from adopting laws against speculation? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There's only one answer to that. Let's see what it's all about now: Yes, Erwin Pröll was obliged that he might reveal when he made speculations, but one thing he doesn't want at all a price: that the Landtag, the National Council and the public are informed about how much he has lost in speculation. The income situation must not be informed in a modern accounting system. Erwin Pröll doesn't want people to know – not before the 3. ==References== March – how much he has already played on land ownership and housing funds. This is a second point: It is also about the fact that Erwin Pröll does not want us and the people to experience, especially in Lower Austria, how much there has already been in emergency sales and huge losses in emergency sales of completely broken financial derivatives in the country of Lower Austria in the last few weeks, how much Erwin Pröll has already drowned in the "Casino Pröll" and can never be brought back to the Lower Austrian budget. That's what it's all about! Now Erwin Pröll says: Let's make a troika! – And now a troika has been formed, this time on the other hand, a troika from Erwin Pröll, from Minister of Finance Fekter and from Klubobmann's head – a troika that is intended to prevent Dr. Pröll's systematic soccer with tax money before the 3. March is forbidden! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I warn you about one: If that's only after the 3rd. In March, Pröll probably won, because then he had to eat it. Then he says: Well, maybe I am still head of state, perhaps I have not been so much chosen!, and then the provisional No will be a final No – and that is the great danger! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is so important that five parties in this House who are willing to enforce a legal ban on speculation for playful national leaders like Erwin Pröll that these five parties are no longer allowed to dance around by a single party, namely the ÖVP, on the nose! We want this to be decided,and four parties – with the exception of the Stronach team, unfortunately – want this to be decided today that there is today this two-thirds majority that already exists against “Pröll Casinos” in this House, and there is only the Austrian People’s Party and a little bit of the Stronach team to give us this opportunity. [[Call: Today]] If Pröll does, we will see that before the National Council election, we will also find and decide against the Austrian People's Party in this House a two-thirds majority against Pröll speculations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9171	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9193	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I have spoken now because Mr Widmann meant that we from the Stronach team would never have been present in the negotiations on the ban on speculation. – Mr President, you have already confirmed it yourself: We were there at every meeting. [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] - Please? [[Abg. May. Widmann: You haven't noticed!]] – Mr Widmann, you have probably not noticed any more. As I said, We were there. We welcome the fact that negotiations are still under way; there are still a few points that need to be discussed. And in this sense we hope for further negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9235	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9257	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With the greens today you really don't know what you're doing. Mr Kogler said that it was still so open that it would be necessary to negotiate, and Mr Pilz has just said that it is actually clear that it could be agreed. – What now, gentlemen? [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I have always felt that there are two heads of state who do the wall and do not want to do it: on the one hand, Mr. Mayor Häupl, on the other hand, Mr. Dr. Erwin Pröll. Now, however, it turns out in the discussion that it seems to be only a country chief, a “prince of land”, as one has heard during the negotiations, which are against. They're already wondering: How does the ÖVP see that? Is it against this because Mr Pröll always claims that these speculations with the housing funds would have made a billion profits? [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: 824!]] Is that perhaps the reason why you don't do it today, because you want to continue speculating, Mr. Dr. stupid? It really can't be! Ladies and gentlemen, if you look back a little bit and look at the most recent events regarding speculation with taxpayers, then you can see that it is really a huge mourning game that is happening there. I don't understand that you don't put things like that right now, now and at all – immediately, if you know what happened in Salzburg, if you know what happened in Lower Austria, if you know that 450 million euros were speculated in Linz and debt is present. If you know that the budget accounts for €231 billion and these speculations keep driving the debt, I have to say: I simply cannot understand that you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, are not ready to adopt this bill, which was completely clearly negotiated last week. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, I also have to say that although the Federal Government has brought itself very positively into the negotiations, the state princes have prevented this, as already mentioned. It will therefore be added that the “Casino Austria”, where tax money can continue to be speculated, continues to turn. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is not responsible and from my point of view also stupid and shortsighted. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should like to remind you that in 2008 we Liberals made two corresponding requests here in the House, namely to stop the speculation with taxpayers immediately. ==References====External links== ==References== In December 2008, both motions for resolutions were rejected by the Coalition at that time. That speaks volumes, it seems that the whole situation has changed very little – unfortunately, I have to say. Volkes Wille, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition, is not. This coalition really lacks a state-political attitude. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9321	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9343	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is really a good debate. We learned a lot today. On the one hand: The Stronach team was present during the negotiations. I would like to confirm that. [[Abg. Grosz: Physical, but not psychological!]] – Right, physically, but not content, because the Stronach team has just said they will not agree, no matter what comes out, because they also want other things; I think a debt limit and so on. – That's all right, but it has nothing to do with it. So from the house, you were present and said, but you don't want to cooperate. And Mr Hagen said today that they are in any case in agreement with the government. – The question is: With what government? Because we have two questions today. So being present is nice, a little bit co-thinking might still be the second stage of parliamentarianism. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The second point that has been interesting: culture within the government. Mr Kopf says to Mr State Secretary Arbitrator – I believe you are still in the joint government – that mail was a transparent tactical maneuver. [[Abg. Head: I'm not in government!]] Please? No, no, no, The ÖVP is no longer in the government? - Oh, you don't. [[Abg. Head: I'm not in government! I just wanted to make this clear!]] But I meant you still feel belonging to the ÖVP as a government party. [[Abg. Grosz: The theme of schizophrenia from the beginning!]] But if that is not the case, then today it would be an additional new realization. But in the words, yes, thank you for the clarification, because that confirms me in the opinion that you no longer have the feeling that you are in a government at all. [[Abg. Head: Just for clarification!]] [[Abg. Grosz: But schizophrenia is treatable!]] If this is a tactical maneuver, a transparent one, if a State Secretary says shortly before 9 am, just before the beginning of the meeting, that the SPÖ fully agrees with the outcome of the negotiations – yes, but the email is of today. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Yesterday!]] The e-mail says the SPÖ agrees. That is, the resistance of national groups belonging to SPÖ is overcome. We can finally write the ban on speculation into the Constitution. Mr. Kopf! That's not a transparent tactical maneuver, but that's something positive. We would have liked to vote in favour of this today and would have liked to bring this speculation ban into the Constitution. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The third thing that Mr President-in-Office has been very interesting today is that he said: We have a political culture to deal with the countries, and federalism is an important principle! - Fine! So if this is the political culture in Austria, that federal states, especially a federal state and a head of state can prevent anything that doesn't fit him in his thinking, which is federalism, then it may be your way of dealing with it – it's not mine! I ask you one: What's this about? It's about tax money. Are we in agreement, Mr. Collegue stupid? - Good. [[Abg. Dr. stupidly nodded.]] Who will take these taxes? Is it Mr Pröll's head of state who collects the taxes? - No! He's just giving them out. That's where we agree. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] It can't be like that. The Federal Government will levy taxpayers' money, and there will be no distinction between whether the taxpayer is sitting in Vorarlberg, because he cannot devote his tax contribution. The taxpayer cannot say: As Wiener, I want my tax money to be speculated only in Vienna! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Financial compensation!]] You can't say that, can you? No, no, no, You can't say that! We could still discuss that. But if federalism is taken seriously and the countries say: What we spend is our thing, and we don't let ourselves look in there, but then they should collect the money themselves. But they don't want that much, because it's much more pleasant if you just spend the money and maybe don't have to explain that you also have to collect it about taxes. Mr President, I would like to say one thing: If it is federal taxes that will be lifted here, we will also have the responsibility here to anchor control over expenditure by means of the draft law. And this is not a misunderstanded centralism, but it is a matter of course. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] It's said: Well, that's where you need to discuss even longer! But you really do disregard your own Minister of Finance, because it was so – and I would like to acknowledge that –: ==References== We had a very good, constructive meeting in which in principle everything had already been negotiated and only said: Well, we still want to vote with the countries on the point of uniform accounting. It was a month ago. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] It took a month. Now there's a formulation, and it doesn't fit again. I'll tell you: Faith It was not – now the window was open, just a few days before the Lower Austrian country election – that the head of state Pröll would agree to some point after this election! They're making the speculators the wall! They make those who do not want to be looked in. – We want a clear constitutional provision that we want to adopt here today!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9520	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendments relating to the completion of the agenda for the reports of the Committee on Budgets in 2183 to 2187. I would ask those Members who want to take account of these objections to give a sign of this. – That is rejected. The agenda for today's sitting, which has been communicated in writing, remains valid. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Pröll continues to speculate!]] [[12:11:06]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9561	Deputies Elisabeth Kaufmann-Bruckbergerand colleagues asked for urgent attention to be paid to the written question 14090/J of Deputies Kaufmann-Bruckberger, Köfer and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance on the suspicion of corruption in the network of ÖVP-Landepolitik, the Lower Austrian wealth administration Fibeg, Raiffeisenlandesbanken, Hypo Banks and the Federal Agencies OeBFA and FMA. [[Abg. Grosz: She's gonna be funny!]] Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at least three hours after receipt of the agenda at 3:13 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 12979/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9590	I would also like to say that, according to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 12979/AB of Question No 13221/J by Dr Walser, colleagues in relation to abuses in the field of the National School Council for Lower Austria by the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9612	In order to be able to negotiate items 18 and 19 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. These two points are reports by the Immunities Committee on the request of the Public Prosecutor Vienna for approval of the administrative persecution of the Member of the National Council Gerhard Huber (2172 of the Supplements) and the request by the Central Public Prosecutor for the prosecution of economic crimes and corruption for approval of the administrative persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Dr. Martin Strutz(273 of the Supplements). I ask those Members who give their agreement to the removal of the time-limit for these committee reports. – This is accepted with the required two-thirds majority. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9645	The debate on points 3 and 4, 5 and 6, 7 and 8, 11 and 12 and 13 and 14 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. That is why we are doing so. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9674	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8.5 “Vienna hours” was agreed. According to the preliminary redistribution of the speaking time within a “Wien hour” for 8.5 “Vienna hours” the following speaking times are: SPÖ and ÖVP each 119, FPÖ 106, Green 94, BZÖ 81 and STRONACH 68 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure to limit the speaking time of the honourable Member to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:14:27]] 1. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (2113 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Income Tax Act 1988 (2177, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9721	I'll call the 1. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9772	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home! Mrs. Minister, I'm really sorry about you. They are supposed to work as sachet wartin – almost to say the female form – and to ensure that taxpayers' money is used in a serious way, including balances in the labour market. Many people in Austria find no work where they live. Many people are forced to commute. We Greens are in favour of finally reducing this imbalance, the separation of the place of residence and the workplace. We need jobs where people live. We need jobs in the regions. Secondly, Mrs Minister, we need the possibility that, if people already have to commut, they are as cost-saving and as time-saving as possible. That is why we are in favour of improving the offer of public transport for commuters, because there they save money and there they sometimes also save time because they can do something else during the journey by train or during the ride by bus, can relax, read something, listen to music or do something else. The surveys among the commuters give us all the right. 71 percent want to change from car to public transport, because it can be more attractive for them when finally public transport finally gets better. But: What are you doing, Mrs. Minister, so to speak, against your actual house mind? – They double on a system of donor promotion that goes completely in the wrong direction. We have – and this is fact, Mrs. Minister – over a million people commuting, and we have over €1 billion in tax money distributed to these commuters. But how? – That’s the problem, because you don’t change the old, false system. I'd like to illustrate this to you now. Mrs Minister, I brought you a bag – a bag not full of money, but a bag full of electoral sugar, because today's decision-making is practically a sugar gift. This bag – it is from the KLM, I believe – shows you the total volume of one billion as it is distributed. [[Abg. Amon: From Lufthansa?]] I've also used the lines that this bag has. Over 60 percent of these one billion, which is 600 million, go to people who have over $50,000 a year’s income. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: They also pay tax! 50 percent tax!]] More than €50,000 a year, and 60 percent go to people who do not need it at all. I can make it clear to you to another number: 3 per cent of the taxpayers are at an annual income of over € 100 000. And these 3 percent get €30 million from you, back as advertising costs, as free amounts, tax deductible. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Completely unjust!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Why?]] That's on the other side now – let's look at the other side of the medal! – yes, the scandal. 80 percent of the people in Austria earn less than €45 000 a year, which is less than €45 000, these 80 percent get the rest – that is the 40 percent of the pendulum fee – and this 80 percent would have to be distributed more in itself. They promote the rich, the bacon dwellers and harm the people who really need it, namely those who earn less. And the low-earners get off with you at all, very badly. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the BZÖ.]] I can illustrate this to you by a very simple individual example. Remember: Monthly salary 1 000 €! According to your system, this person gets about €400 a year when it commutes 80 kilometres a year; 80 kilometres commuting at 1 000 € Income is 400 € per year. How does it look for those who earn €5,000 a month? – According to your system, these better and best earners receive more than three times, i.e. 1,500 € for commuting 80 kilometres. I mean, that's the true scandal. This is a social scandal, a tax scandal and, above all, an ecological scandal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Your system, which you do not change, Mrs. Minister, provides that the autopowder in the bacon belt will receive compensation from two kilometers away – we are still talking about this, Mr. Wöginger, but the public commuters will only receive one from 20 kilometres. [[Abg. Wöginger: But that's a fool!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Why?]] That's completely unfair. I can also tell you by means of numbers. If we look at public and car drivers between 20 and 40 kilometres of distance together, the Öffi users get € 696 a year and the car users € 1 476, i.e. more than double – in those who commute between 40 and 60 kilometers. These are imbalances, social and environmental. Those who earn very, very little receive no advertising costs at all, they cannot even claim to have a negative withdrawal amount. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's such a hairthrowing nonsense! It's a shame that an Upper Austrian politician says something like this!]] But these are peanuts, real peanuts. We want to relocate social and ecologically. That's why we're in favour of distributing to public drivers and drivers in the right direction for miles. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Relieving the National Cash Cow!]] Mrs. Minister, with this driver promotion, with this spectro-stimulation, which you do not eliminate, but instead prolong and consolidate against the advice of experts, you have two additional negative effects: You have the separation – these are costs for the whole communities – and you have the problem of CO2 emissions. Mr Berlakovich can make it clear to you: We pay on the one hand a contribution for driving and on the other hand certificates, CO2 taxes in three-digit million height because we have so high CO2 emissions. That's totally reckless! That is why our proposal for reform is similar to that of the experts, and I would therefore like to present it to you. The experts Schleicher and Steininger, University of Graz, and Angela Köppl, Wifo, say: They want a different incentive effect, improved transport and environmental incentives, improved social security, distance between housing and work as a basis for assessment, decoupling of tax benefits – not these deductions with free amounts and advertising costs – a step-up of the funding, a bonus for public transport. - That's what the experts say. That's what we say. But they do exactly the opposite: maintain the old system and allow little improvement. Now I'm coming to your sugar, I'm not going to do it. Mrs Minister, I think it is right that you finally guarantee the job ticket tax, and I would like to hand over to you a small green pack. [[The speaker hand over a small green bag to Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] It's just a small package, because these amounts, Mrs. Minister, are peanuts for the job tickets you now grant us that you claim tax. And, Mrs. Minister, it is also good that at last at least these 2 € come, regardless of income. [[Abg. Wögerer: Look here, it's okay!]] These 2 € – one for driving, one for returning – per kilometer, regardless of income, are peanuts, social peanuts in view of the predicament, given the imbalance. It is also good, Mrs Minister, that we now finally have this increase in the cost of commuting and the amount of compensation for commuting to part-time workers. This is a sensible reform, which we do indeed support. The claim for four working days per month, and not for eleven, is also progress. Only, this progress is practically the scatter on the cake, and the cake itself remains unevenly distributed – that is the problem! That is why, Mrs Minister, I would like to give you a second small package, which you should fill in: the social package. [[The speaker presented a small red bag to Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] Distribute the taxpayers fairer! - Yeah, that's red. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrator: And this pack is red!]] It's also transparent because there's too little inside. That is why it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that despite the positive approaches I have also mentioned, we are in principle opposed to this system, because it is wrong and it is even more distributed to the rich and even more encouraging the bacon belt. I can only tell you once again what you have read in a donor newspaper: ‘Pendler-Reform – Government distributes first election sugar’. – Unfortunately, in my opinion, the wrong ones! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9968	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e9989	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a good day for the commuters. Today, we have decided to make the biggest donor reform since Alois Mock introduced the Pendler Pauschale 25 years ago. It is an important signal to the working people who need their vehicle every day to get to the workplace. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Moser, €150 million in addition, these are not peanuts. €150 million will be taken into hand to relieve commuters. For example, last year we had an inflation rate of 2.8 percent, and the spray prices rose by 7.9 percent. It is therefore necessary to make a cost-effective balance here for the commuters, and we now decide to do so with this reform in the area of commuting and in the Pendlereuro area. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You only support the better earners, don't you understand?]] Mrs Moser, this is not a promotion of bacon, and you know that. I do not know why you are constantly declaring this untruth here, too, of the people's mouths. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: I guess it is!]] You are an Upper Austrian Member, and it is really very sad that you do not know your own federal state. There are 800 000 commuters throughout Austria, who are referring to the large flat rate, i.e. from two kilometres when public transport is not reasonable, Mrs Moser. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because you're ruining public transport!]] These are the people who live in rural areas and travel to the workplace every day with their vehicle. We are committed to them, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You're sitting in the social freezer, you have no idea!]] What does this package include? First, the Pendlereuro: The Pendlereuro is a kilometre-dependent contribution, which is now being granted. This means, for example, if someone has a distance of 30 kilometres from home to work, he will receive an additional 60 € per year. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: All this war?]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: You can just tank it!]] A long-standing demand, which ÖAAB has always made, is being implemented by this law today. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: We extend the circle of those entitled. That is, if a person commutes two days a week, he will receive two thirds of the pendler's fee in the future, as well as the pendler's euro. If someone makes a donation only once a week, he will receive a third of the amount available. This is an extension, a major improvement, ladies and gentlemen, especially for part-time workers and women. Here we deliberately send an important signal in this direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third essential point: We double the penalty. There are many part-time workers, especially many women who earn less than €1200 gross per month, who are not subject to pay tax. Up to date, you have received a maximum of 141 € of the surcharge per year. You will now receive up to 290 €. That means that this is more than a doubling. And with the 110 € negative tax, these employees come up to 400 €. This is a doubling in this area. These are not peanuts, Mrs Moser, these are important measures for women and for part-time workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fourth point, ladies and gentlemen: We'll implement the job ticket. The job ticket now applies to all employees. Employers can now provide tickets for public transport on a voluntary basis free of tax to employees. In other words, companies can deduct tax expenses and, for employees, the job ticket is exempt from wage tax and social security. This is an important ecological component, Mrs Moser, so I do not understand why you cannot accept this package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Fifth point, ladies and gentlemen: There will be a Pendler calculator installed. I believe that this is very important, also in the sense of simplification and use for workers. The Ministry of Finance installs a donor computer in which you enter the place of residence, the address of the place of residence, the address of the employer and then calculate how much distance is in kilometres. This means that public transport has also been put in place and knows how to get a donor's promotion per year. This is a major improvement, ladies and gentlemen. The Federal Minister also receives a regulatory authority in the field of the rules of availability. We from the ÖAAB have tabled a proposal because the current solutions are complicated and partly unfair. The availability must be linked more to the distance, and I trust the Minister that this regulation will also make use of it to simplify and make it more transparent in the sense of the workers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This very good regulation for the commuters retroactively applies 1. In January 2013. The establishments shall have the rolling-up up to 30. ==References== It is an important measure for the working people who need their own vehicle every day to get to the workplace. That is why I am really happy about this decision-making for the commuters. I would like to thank all those who have contributed, primarily the Ministry of Finance, the officials, but also the coalition partner, for the fact that this important measure can be implemented today.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e10123	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e10146	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A system is being rewritten here and not amended, Mr President, which has so far been massively unfair and unfair and very complicated. The Minister has honestly admitted to the Committee that it is becoming even more complicated now. I do not know if it is the meaning of a new law that makes everything even more complicated, but it remains this unfairness that Mrs. Moser pointed out. We do not understand that either – as I look above all at the ranks of social democracy, which apparently has only a small interest in the commuters, but which once again allows a social injustice to be rewritten massively. Mr. Krainer – who came up with it after that – was the intuition of Bruno Kreisky in the 1970s to introduce the Pendler's Paschal and the Pendler's bill, if one wants to do so, the workers, and here, above all, the construction workers – that was the real idea – who have to find and relinquish support for their work in the Ballage Centres. That was actually the meaning: The bottom ones, those who deserve the least and who look most through their fingers due to the stress of their distance. This is not the case today, Mr President. It's completely different today. Today, exactly those who earn the least, some 1.5 million Austrians who work less than € 12,000 a year stay on the track. You will get 140 € a year, but this is a drop on the hot stone, considering that – you will get something so far, i.e. 140 € in addition to this solution. [[Abg. Tamandl: It's 400 €!]] Yes, then it's just 400 €, but you know what a woman is. I have an example here, I will just give you an example because I think you understand it better with examples. I have such an example here that comes from the Chamber of Workers, so I also quote it: Mrs. M., who really exists, is 36 years old, nurse, with a little daughter, has a car and is dependent on her commuting from Grafenstein in Carinthia to the Klagenfurt Hospital, 14 kilometres, one direction; monthly net income: €1,071. And now please, if I tell you what the commuting means for this woman. This means according to the Chamber of Labour – Sprit plus car costs, including the depreciation, which of course has to be included if I have to commute every day – 3 204 € net load per month. [[Call the ÖVP: In the year!]] – In the year, right, in the year; Excuse me, I'm correcting: not in the month, in the year, that's year numbers. She gets, up to now, a flat rate of 135 € per year, then she gets a reduced cost of travel – thanks to the blessed activity of Mr. Dörfler, who in Carinthia has reduced the cost of travel from 95 € to 50 € per year – from 50 € per year to which she is still given. At the end of the day, €3 018 per year of load for this woman. This woman now, for example, gets this wonderful pendlereuro as a withdrawal. That's where we're going. The colleague has just told us that the money gets each bar back to hand, which is a net amount, two euros per kilometer, that is, the distance to two times. I just don't think that's in the law, Mr. Cot. Now I ask you, Mrs Minister: The law does not contain any direct promotion. The law clearly states – and I quote the law here, § 33 para. 5 –: ‘In the case of income arising from an existing service relationship, the following amounts shall apply:’; There's under point four of the pendlereuro. – This is a withdrawal, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's the same thing anyway!]] . No, that's not the same thing, Mr. Cot, that's not the same thing! You and your propaganda are constantly suggesting that everyone is entitled to this donor euro, and that is not the case because it is a withdrawal. [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] It is a withdrawal, and again the small incomes fall through the rust, again the little ones fall through! They don't get him! That's the dirt you and their FCGler are spreading here. The FCGlers transport this even today on the homepage of the FCG – I quote –: At present, those who earn more benefit from the shuttle fee. - Quote. And then we're going to go on: This is unsocial and unbalanced. - Says the FCG. It shoots its own solution through sun and moon, and then you say an untruth on your homepage, because there is – quote –: The new model is unbeatable and easy to see: The number of kilometres of the simple travel distance of a donor multiplied by 40 is the amount of the funding. - Quote. Where's that? This is on the homepage of your group today: multiplied by 40. Where? - Nothing with 40! If one has to drive 60 kilometers today, simple route, it gets 120 € once a year as a withdrawal, as a withdrawal amount. This is what Mrs Müller remains in Carinthia, if she has 14 kilometres of easy roadway. Do you know what they're gonna get in the year? – 28 € as a withdrawal amount! You know what she's getting out of that? – 3 or 4 € she gets out of there in the year. That's really your solution, and that's a hog and a scandal to the people who depend on their car and who have to pay thousands of euros. You have to say that now. [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] In addition, the injustice of income comes. Let us take two examples: If a person earns €1,000, he will now receive an annual grant of €400 – €290 more than last. If someone earns $5,000, you know what he gets? – €1,586 plus the pendlereuro I explained earlier. – Yes, is this socially fair, my colleagues from the SPÖ? Is it social justice that the little ones get so much less, but those who deserve more and more? It also writes editor-in-chief Alexandra Föderl-Schmid in the “Standard” under the title “Times of Focused Unit intelligence” – we have heard this even today, I quote –: “Fastly a quarter of the taxpayer’s fee earns more than 50,000 euros gross a year. Thus, server servants benefit more than people with lower incomes. This shale is also known to SPÖ.” It's known to you, write it there. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: And how much do they pay on taxes?]] And here's what it says: “Even if small earners now have a small one” – and I have told you before: 140 € – ‘To be compensated: This lump sum contributes to the strengthening of social injustice in that country." So it's not adding anything to it anymore. Social injustice, the smallest, you let down wherever you say you are, you are the representatives of the little man, and the FPÖ makes the robbers! You still agree with this displeasure! Explain this to the counterparts in Lower Austria now before the election! It's incredible that you two quit today, at the representation of the little man. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And then there's something else. Then you, the representatives of the little man, SPÖ and FPÖ, also cover this package, at 60 kilometers. That is, those who already make the least of money and who have to travel more than 60 kilometers a day only get the package at all up to 60 kilometres. And now I ask you – because Niederösterreich is the election campaign and you are also on it: [[Abg. May. Kogler: In Carinthia too!]] What did St. Pults, Krems and Ybbs together, and what separates them? – I tell you what separates them, namely, the distance from Vienna. When you travel from Vienna, it is 63 kilometers to St. Pölten, 76 kilometers to Krems and 108 kilometers to Ybbs. And do you know what everyone has in common? – The same amount of payment at the flat rate. It's completely meaty whether I drive 108 or 60 kilometers, I don't get any more, although I'm considerably longer on the road and although I'm much more stressful. This is socially unfair and unreasonable – and you agree! I really think that's incredible! Similar in Burgenland: If today one commuts from Vienna to Wiener Neustadt, it is 61 kilometers, after Oberwart 127 kilometers. That is, the one who travels every day to Oberwart – and I know for myself someone who commutes from Oberwart to Vienna and makes a very little money – gets as little as 60 kilometers for his 127 kilometers as anyone commuting for Wiener Neustadt. This cannot be accepted, unfairly, and there is no explanation either, Mr President, that is why we are against it. [[Abg. Wöginger: The Pendlereuro is not covered!]] We are quite clear for a real, kilometre-dependent compensation for commuters who have earned them because they are anyway the burdened ones in this Republic. We want, and have already submitted the request, a socially just solution, a better creation for people who are below the income tax limit, a flexibilization resulting from it, and in the end we also want a simpler administration and a more transparent calculation, while the Minister of Finance in the Committee says it becomes even more complicated now – well wonderful! Nobody knows. It's unfair. This system is a system of the past and belongs to new legs, really kilometers dependent, not with a package, but with a charge of the actually driven kilometers of the commuters. That's what we're doing. That is why we certainly do not agree today.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e10269	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e10293	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Unfortunately, the 4 minutes now are not enough to explain the difference between the amount of the allowance and the amount of the amortization. But maybe this could be a BZÖ club secretary. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is the decisive thing!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's the problem, excuse me!]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's the problem! You know nothing! You don't know each other!]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The reform brings substantial social and environmental progress. If you always come from the BZÖ, get excited and excited, then you have to bring in some valuables as well. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... good and bad tax! We have a different view!]] If you look around in the rest of Europe, look around our neighbours, where low incomes are now affected by cuts, we will, among other things, create fair fiscal support for small earners through this reform. That is also to be recognized! Ladies and gentlemen! The innovation relieves over one million commuters by additional € 150 million. I would say that the 50 000 part-time workers who have not yet received a flatrate and are already getting a flat rate can't explain that you are against it. Higher surcharges for 100 000 small earners, who are not liable for remuneration or income tax due to their low earnings: For these it is more than doubled! You mentioned an example. I would also like to give you an example: a low-earner, and you can now choose in which state, Lower Austria, Carinthia, whatever, because your example was clearly invented. I want to be honest and take a hypothetical example, because I don't think anything about the tricks of politicians who stand out and invent and miscalculate any examples. So we take a low-earner who has an income below €1,200 gross, 30 kilometres of easy roadway: He has received 141 € per year and now gets 290 €. To tell him these are the scatters on a cake, I think cynical! 2 € per kilometer between apartment and workplace bar in the hand, this is a support and not a small one for low income recipients. Three points: long-term SPÖ demand for greater justice for counterparts, which is taken into account in this reform. But it also has an ecological component – and this is important. Especially with the job ticket, we support commuters, motivate them to use public transport, and thereby make a sustainable contribution to environmental and climate protection. Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Democracy, the Social Democrats and Social Democrats, especially those representatives from Lower Austria and Burgenland, have fought very much for the reform of the Pendler Pauschale, because they have also been directly involved in the region, which has the old form for disadvantages. Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists in particular have the duty to look at all the reforms under the perspective of justice: Does a reform bring more justice or less justice? – This reform definitely brings more justice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e10378	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e10399	Well, if that brings more justice, it's a good thing to argue about it. It is once again an item on the agenda, where the opportunity is denied to achieve much bigger and more far-reaching. From a social point of view, from a tax point of view, from an administrative point of view and in particular from an ecological point of view, this remains a grand extension of Murks, which costs a lot of money, Mrs Bundesminister, in the sum already € 1 billion! But let's take it like this, and let's see: How could this billion € be better used from a social point of view, from the point of view of administrative simplification, from tax policy and, in particular, from environmental point of view? If you, Mrs Pre-Deputy, say shockingly and tell Mr Westenthaler that it is the difference between an amount of free money and an amount of amortization that he obviously did not understand, then I can only reply that, in our view, you obviously did not understand something – and that is still the case with a social-democratic party, which is particularly embarrassing. It is precisely the problem and not the solution that we are dealing with it as an exemption! In the case of a withdrawal amount – you should know that – everyone would have the same opportunity to use it, regardless of their income. That's why you should be! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: And from his tax burden...!]] Why should someone who commuts 60 kilometres a day – let's just take an example – get back a lot, especially if he deserves a lot, and the one who deserves very little, gets a little back, and the one who deserves so little that he doesn't pay taxes, gets nothing at all: [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: The tax burden...!]] Is that fair? Yes, you still need to save? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This whole system is rebuilt, it belongs to the head placed on the feet. We know that you want to continue in the social deep-frozen rest anyway. [[Abg. Amon: This is wrong what you say!]] No, that's not wrong! That's very true. [[Abg. Wöginger: Of course this is completely wrong!]] This is a support for SMEs and managers, for which in relation to what would otherwise be possible if we were to attract the same billion and distribute it so that each... [[ongoing calls to the ÖVP]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: The tax burden is reduced!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Do you accept that we have reduced the tax burden?]] Look, I'll explain this to you. I'll explain this to you once again before you get upset. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: The tax burden is reduced!]] In any case, that's all that's in keeping with the ÖAAB – there's only more of the ÖAMTC – so to speak, in the same tone. That really fits! But I say it again to you, and also to the Minutes, because you are obviously not clear anyway: The whole can be organised much more justly if, for every donor and every donor, for every kilometer, who is going to be “must” here – under quotation marks –, there is a lot to be removed: Every kilometer, every person! But You have simply extended this in the wrong classification, with some cosmetic corrections, because obviously you have one behind the deep-frozen rest, which may have a social conscience. But this is negligible, so little is that. [[Abg. Wöginger: Is this cosmetic: 150 million are cosmetics?]] So the main problem remains that with you – and this is exactly true if you were to expect at last – those who have a lot more get those who have little, few get, and those who do not pay taxes get very little. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No, they have a lower tax burden!]] Yes, but that doesn't even fall into the weight! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: The tax burden...!]] They are Minister of Finance; focus You're up to the billions, not the big ones! That's really annoyed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Proposing tax policy: This is a complication that seeks the same! Now we have completely touched the salad. We have an exemption scheme and a decommissioning system, which is then available elsewhere. That's why you're obviously so upset. [[Abg. Wöger:... don't look so black!]] – Yes, because all of this is getting even more complicated and even more unfair! [[Abg. Wöginger: Don't you understand?]] That's the problem, and we haven't even talked about ecology. This is against any Sunday speech that you constantly carry out, that everything needs to be easier and more comprehensible. The entire tax declaration is supposed to be on a beer lid – he needs a full linen for his pendler fee! That's incredible. I don't know where you think. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The essential ecological question should not be quite irrelevant in times like this. On the ecological question, of course, this plays a very important role now, that another, by the way, social and individual injustice is added, namely that driving and commuting by car is worth more to you than driving and commuting by public transport. [[Abg. Wöginger: If it is...!]] This too is a double cleanery, an ecological and already a social one! Not everyone can afford a car. Even in your carnearly world, you'd have to see that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Those who depend on public transport are also harmed twice and three times: first, because you make such a stupid pendulum fee; second, because you do not promote public transport, but starve; and thirdly, because you still defend the unruly then loud! That's not going to happen anymore. [[Abg. Wöginger:... taxes!]] These are sugars for your clients. That's logical, so the ÖAMTC is yelling at the same thing here with the Economic Association and with the ÖAAB in action unit. But why social democracy goes along and holds a secretary-general who doesn't even understand this yet, but wants to teach the others here, that really beats the bottom!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e10672	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e10729	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In one I have to give my previous speakers the right: This law is certainly not the final conclusion of wisdom. It's just an intermediate solution from my point of view or from our point of view. But if you observe the whole price trend over the last ten years and if you see that we have had about 21.77 percent inflation, down to ten years, and compared with the spray prices, say Super, to the two and a half times increased, i.e. an inflation rate of 54.08 percent, and the diesel has increased by three and a half times, i.e. 78.01 percent inflation, then of course there was an acute need for action! I say it quite openly and honestly: Especially in the last two years, prices have increased exorbitantly, and of course we have to relieve the commuters. There are many commuters who are already unable to afford the car or think about whether they are going to work at all, because most of them eat up the petrol and the cost of the car. Unfortunately, in the absence of public transport, very many do not even have the opportunity to get to work. Of course, many are committed to it, and this is particularly a small amount of employees or half-day workers. That is why I quite understand or understand that the government needed action there. But it is, as already mentioned, far too late, it is complicated, and as Mrs Federal Minister Fekter himself said in committee: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And that's why you agree?]] It has become more complex. Dear colleague Westenthaler! Worry about the BZÖ, but certainly not about the FPÖ. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why do you agree? Why are you doing the robbers?]] I think we'll probably be better there in a year than you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's what we'll see on Sunday, how it goes! In Carinthia, above all!]] As Mrs Fekter said: It has become much more complex and the administrative burden is much higher. I also consider the whole to be just a glare before the election, in order to calm down just before the Lower Austria election a little bit, and finally also before the National Council election. Some of this seems to me like this: Take the people 100 € out of the bag and give them back 50 €. But now, Mr Westenthaler, I come back to it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You agree to the blend grenades!]] – we say: It is still a bad reform better than no reform at all! And that people get a little more money is better than they'd get nothing at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is the reason why we will end up agreeing. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] We brought in our own model. Of course, your own model would be much better and would relieve the commuters much more. Unfortunately, this is not dealt with by the government groups. However, we will constantly demand that we also discuss our system, which we want to bring in, accordingly. This FPÖ model focuses on the immediate relief of the commuters, and not on the annual compensation sometime later. What's the last thing? At the end of the day, Mrs. Federal Minister, you have already indicated it very carefully: It is simply a matter of reducing the burden on middle and small earners per se. In fact, it is a question of increasing the levels of income tax progression and reducing the rate of entry into the tax system. This would make sense to relieve our voters and taxpayers permanently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not a question of introducing new taxes – as SPÖ would like to do in the form of capital taxes – but rather of reducing public expenditure in advance, so that taxes can be reduced in turn. Then the population really has something of it!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e10831	Mrs Fekter came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e10852	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The present changes in the Income Tax Act reduce both the tax burden, i.e. the tax burden of the working population who have to commut, but also those who do not pay tax receive a promotion. Therefore, we have taken both parts into account: Both those who have to drag the strong tax backpack we relieve, but socially balanced we also give negative tax and raise the funding for those who do not pay taxes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have not only made the system socially balanced, but also made it much fairer, namely for part-time workers who have not been able to take advantage of a flat rate. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You don't believe that yourself!]] Even if they work only one day a week, they now receive a pounder's fee. We have reintroduced the Pendlereuro. This is a tax deduction amount, and it is calculated by multiplying the distance between the apartment and the workplace by two. However, it is a prerequisite for you to be able to take advantage of this donor euro, but it is that you have a flat rate at all. The employer should take the pendlereuros into account, as in the case of the transfer of traffic by the employer. Therefore, a roll-up must take place until June. It is, by the way, retroactively designed the law. We have also stated that the job ticket must be provided free of tax and social charges to all workers who receive it. It is therefore not necessary to pay a tax for it – which has so far been the case – and there is no need to deliver social insurance for this “sacrifice” – under quotation marks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a great renewal. By the way, it also allows all those who do not receive a penalty, i.e. have to commute within a community territory. Even if they get a job ticket, it is tax-free and tax-free. There is no longer a flat rate for employees who can also use their vans privately. I see this as an unwarranted privilege. If one can use a service car privately, it is not justified that, so to speak, taxpayers will also co-finance it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Because there was so much talk about social justice here, I can tell you one thing: It is fair to relieve workers of their enormous tax burden according to their tax burden, and we have done so. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why you increase the mineral oil tax for all alike!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If someone deserves more, he pays disproportionately immediately through the progression more taxes. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Now you still admit it!]] There it is justified, Mr Westenthaler, that the middle class also benefits from this tax relief. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are also convinced that this is just!]] I recognise that the service providers who supply us with the taxes, so that we can shape something in such a way that this medium-sized person, who carries this tax burden, will also be relieved accordingly. [[Calls for Greens and BZÖ]] That is justified! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Cost more for the petrol that has more money?]] That is why I acknowledge that we have designed the package for tax relief here, but that for those who do not pay a tax, we have made an increase in the negative tax on the double, so that a total of up to €400 in negative tax. We are doing very well-balanced, socially just and ecologically sensible, because we maintain the small package and the large package. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Just because of all this stupidity, our control system is complicated...!]] I therefore believe that the arguments put forward here are very one-sided, since they have not taken everything into account. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] For example, we have also introduced a counterpart compensation amount with which we want to give full support to those who pay little wage tax, namely through a grinding-up scheme up to a wage tax of € 290. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! 1.6 million people benefit from this support for mobility in order to reach the workplace. 1.6 million people – we don't let that go bad! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mrs Moser, it is not right for this to be a pure promotion of bacon. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Mainly!]] We know from the statistical materials that most people are commuting in their districts or in the surrounding cities and not necessarily in the bacon belts of Linz, Graz or Vienna. It's wrong! They stay in the region, and because they stay in the region, they belong to support! And the living space in the rural area does not belong dried out as you wish! We are in favour of supporting these people who live there! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] It is nice to explain to people that they should not be commuting there, because most people cannot choose to live, first where they live and second, where they find the job. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Then we need work in the region!]] – That’s where politics has to help them, and we do it! You're just talking bad! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have people in mind in our actions. Therefore, a proposed amendment will still be tabled today, which will bring a second income tax improvement – for pensioners. We have introduced the increase in pension funds from certain incomes. This leads, for example, to the loss of the increased amount of amortisation by means of a pension adjustment. In order to compensate for hardships here, we will make a grinding arrangement up to the income of €25 000. This helps the pensioners. To ensure that they do not suddenly have to abandon the amount of withdrawal due to an inflation adjustment, we will provide for a looping system in the second reading amendment. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11062	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11083	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, in all your statements, however you or your colleagues from the two government parties represent it here, I still have to tell you that the current system of commuting payroll, which is based on tax deductibility, is massively detrimental to the low-earners and does not change the current legislative amendment. On the track are the low-paid, part-time workers, those who do not pay a wage tax. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's not true!]] – Mrs Colleague, those who are below the tax limit only get some alms. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: You don't know each other!]] The whole is also based on studies of the Chamber of Workers. We have everything from the Chamber of Workers, as she has calculated by different examples, Mrs Silhavy, and you should know that too! It is true that the people of the Chamber of Labour are also dissatisfied with it and are massively disadvantaged by those people who are part-time. Mrs Bundesminister, if you really want to do something for the people and do a tax reduction, then make a tax reduction for the middle class, because this one is extremely burdened in Austria! That's the truth! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The social balance of the flat rate and the amount of the transfer of traffic is in no way the following: They mentioned that the tax burden is reduced for those who don't pay taxes, who get a promotion, and the part-time workers get an aliquotated penalty – yes, that's true, that's aliquoted; if you work eleven days a month, you still have the full penalty; if you work only eight days a month, you only have two thirds; and if you work four days a month, you only have one third – and this rate is still granted only under the condition of a tax income. So you have to have the income first – there is no mention of funding, Mrs. Federal Minister; that is fact. It is also interesting that ÖAAB-Obmann will advertise Clickovits in the ÖAAB newspaper: 1 € per kilometer of work route per year for back and forth, from the apartment to the workplace, as a withdrawal amount – that is, directly, regardless of income – for both the small and the large flat rate. That is, according to his doctrine, as a direct promotion, that is, income-independent, directly into the wallet. - Well, that's what I'm looking at. This is simply a reflection of false facts, ladies and gentlemen! If I then think that in recent years the mineral oil tax has been raised twice, this package does not even compensate for that. At least take back the mineral oil tax, that would be a lot, because the pounder surcharge never compensates for it in life! In Austria we have many commuters who depend on it, because public transport does not always go, maximum between the district cities, but not out into the valleys. In any case, these commuters need a kilometre-dependent grant, and that is why I am now submitting a request on this subject: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is the final conclusion of wisdom, and that should be implemented in this way!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11154	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11224	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11246	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! I think we all agree that it's not easy for the comrades. The spray prices are rising constantly, the commuting costs time, but also nerves, and those who use the public don't make it any easier either. Nevertheless, the reform of the pendler fee, the introduction of the pendlereuros, but also of the job ticket is a very good thing. Basically, I'm glad that you don't get back into the stock exchange, but just give me the opportunity to get back a little more under the line. This reform is particularly pleasing, however, that part-time workers can now also benefit from it. If you travel once a week, you are entitled to a third of the flat rate, and if you travel three times a week, you are already entitled to the full pendulum fee. In my opinion, this is a step in the right direction, especially for women who have to put family and work under a hat and are therefore often employed in part-time and until now always fallen by rust. As a fair decision, I personally feel that the use of the service vehicle has been taken out of the shuttle fee and that there is no claim to the pendulum euro either. The job ticket is intended, and we have heard this more often today, to motivate employers to finance the annual tickets for the public, which are also tax-free and tax-free. This should, however, be promoted and forced much more particularly in the urban area. All in all, this reform is a step in the right direction. It is not yet perfect, it is an interim solution, and therefore we will also support Mr Dolinschek's motion for a resolution, but also Mr Jannach's still to be submitted.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11291	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Rossmann speaking. 5 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11312	Mr President. High house! Mrs Finanzminister! I think it is just an exasperation when a Minister of Finance always speaks of taxes and means taxes. They say: Those who wear the tax backpack more strongly. - I won't say anything. They say: Those who don't pay tax. They say: If someone deserves more, he pays more taxes. But we all pay taxes. We not only pay wage and income tax, Mrs Finanzminister, but we also pay many other taxes. It is only the mineral oil tax which, for example, would be relevant in this context. However, we also pay the sales tax – one of the largest taxes in the country. We pay social security contributions. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] – Let me speak out, Mrs Finanzminister! And if we take all the taxes into account and look at what the distribution studies say about the distribution of the tax burden, then it comes out – Mrs Finanzminister, you know exactly – that our tax and tax system is proportionate. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: They are redistributive world champions!]] – For our spectators: What does that mean? – This means that someone who has a low income pays as much taxes and taxes as someone who deserves a lot of money. [[Abg. Amon: But that's not true!]] – This is Wifo’s distribution study, Mr Amon. Read it and look at it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not a question of the fact that those who have a high income actually pay higher taxes. I would like to make that very clear, Mrs Finanzminister, in this context, because I am always indignant at the ÖVP that you are always talking about those who do not pay taxes. Of course, they pay their taxes when they go shopping when they go out, they pay their social security charges and more. [[Abg. Krainer: Where he is right, he is right!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No, he didn't!]] Now on the real topic, to the pendler's fee: This pendulum fee does not solve the fundamental problems. This reform is not a reform. This is a waste of taxpayers' money. Social injustices persist. The social impact is obvious. There are also studies by the Economic Research Institute which clearly prove this. And it is also clear that when the majority of them go through allowances, it is obvious that those who have a higher income will benefit more. No, no, no, no, And if you put a bite around now and say, Well, we make a higher penalty and design the pendlereuro as a withdrawal amount!, then we correct a little in the opposite direction, but therefore still do not eliminate social injustice for a long time, but make the system extremely complicated. From the perspective of the administrative reform, this is a step in the wrong direction. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Thirdly, the ecological issue. There are absolutely false incentives with this flat rate. It can't be that autopowder continues to be more preferred than commuters who use public transport! Mrs Moser is right, when she says that this shuttle fee is a promotion of those who live in the bacon belt. I'll go one more step further and say: This pendulum fee is a dispersal fee, which still has high follow-up costs for social and technical infrastructure. [[Abg. Wöginger: I'll invite you to the Inn quarter!]] Mr Wöginger, we have already debated this in the committee, since you have accused me of not taking care of the country and having the country taken care of. No, I'm not! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] I think there is a need for other instruments to do so, and these other instruments are in the financial balance. I am very much in favour of promoting the centres in the room, but for heaven's sake it is not possible to do that with the wrong instrument of the pendulum fee. [[Abg. Wöginger: This is a cut-off!]] I can't! This is about the financial compensation, which is about promoting business settlements, which is about a task-oriented financial compensation, and this may also be about the pooling of communities in order to promote them more effectively in the country. [[Abg. Wöginger: This is an increase in rural areas!]] Because if the centres on the country live – an old financial science thesis – then the space also lives around this center. This would be a promotion of the rural area, but not a misconceptional reform of a penalty, which is nothing but a negligent handling of means of taxation. [[Abg. Linder: You've been living in Vienna for too long!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Vienna haughtiness!]] Mrs Finanzminister, you owe me the answer: How to become Is that what you're funding? – In the previous year, we decided on a large package of savings – debt brakes – and we simply do not give up anything, you nothing, just because a choice takes place on Sunday in Lower Austria, at €200 million in duration. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11490	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Arbitrator reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11512	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Right at the beginning, because the call of the intercessor “Wiener haughtiness! ” has fallen: I think that even if you grew up in Vienna, you know how the life situation is outside the city. [[Abg. Amon: You are, but Mr Rossmann is not!]] – But it is often not easy in the city. But I'll come back to that. But it is not only about the bacon belt, about the people who move out in a little bit, because they have cheaper building grounds there and then, of course, also have another ride. It is about the people who live in Burgenland, who have to invest in Güssing or elsewhere, and often many hours of their lifetime, in order to get to a job at all and have only a partial salary of this effort with the Pendlerpauschale. It is about the people in the Lavant valley in Carinthia, in the forest district, in the Mühlviertel, wherever the infrastructure is so thin that people often have to drive very far to get to a workplace at all. [[Abg. Wöger: Innviertel!]] Also in Styria, in all the federal states there are such regions. Therefore, it is also necessary to introduce such rules – which have already been introduced under the government of Bruno Kreisky – to look again and again at whether the meeting security is still there. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We already said that in 2005!]] We have come up with a look at it – and numerous donor initiatives and organizations have also pointed out – that the part-time workers, those people who don't work full-time, look through their fingers all week, have nothing from the Pendler Pauschale – so far! We're changing this today. We create benefits for 1.6 million commuters, for part-time workers, who are now also finally enjoying a penalty, for the low-earners who get more commuting pay, even if they earn almost so little that they do not pay any taxes through the increase in the penalty. It is particularly the women who benefit greatly from these measures, because they are often represented in these professional groups – half-day workers, part-time workers, but also very far-reaching. The reform essentially has three major cornerstones. And that's... In the future, part-time workers will receive the penalty aliquot. It benefits, as I said earlier, especially the women. There are a total of 50,000 more part-time workers, which will now also receive an annual penalty. As far as the penalty is concerned, low-earner earners, also very often women, receive a maximum of €400 instead of as before €251. Also, the equivalent of the pounding amount, which acts directly like cash, means 2 € more per run kilometre between the workplace and residence per year. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Even for the people living in the agglomerations, it is often not easy, even if there is public transport. For all these people, there will be the tax-free job ticket in the future. If the employer pays them the annual ticket for the use of public transport, this is not to be taxed, but is also given as a direct incentive. This has also created an ecological component, but has also been created an advantage for all people who have to work very long and laboriously in spite of agglomeration space. Finally, I would like to support the amendment tabled. It means financial relief for pensioners in our country, i.e. the so-called loop-off scheme for pensioners. This also eliminates something for our older generation in a sub-area, where there have otherwise been difficult regulations. And that's good. It is a good day to make an important decision for people who often have to go very hard and far to work to meet their work. That is why I think it is also justified that we are deciding on this reform today.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11584	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11605	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! I am now bringing this amendment tabled a few times by Mr Gabriele Tamandl, Jan Krainer, Mag. Gertrude Auber, Ing. Erwin Kaipel, colleagues. These are in principle clarifications in § 16 para. 1 Z 6 lit. e and § 33 para. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. I would like to address my previous speakers, namely Mr Moser, as the first one. She tells us again and again that she would have wished for ecological approaches, and she constantly tightens the bacon belt. Mrs Moser! We have already discussed this in the Financial Committee. First: The job ticket is a milestone, especially for people in Vienna who have remained at their expense to this day. Secondly, In the bacon belt no one gets a large flat rate because everyone is reasonable for public transport. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not true!]] Don't spread any falsehoods here! Mr Westenthaler has just passed. I just want to remove an unclear one he spoke about. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What did I say?]] He meant that the donor euro was covered, was a withdrawal amount, and you could only get back what you just had to pay. . I have not heard such a nonsense, as Mr Westenthaler has told him with this statement today, in my entire ten-year career. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The pendler euro is not covered. If someone travels 200 kilometers or 100 kilometers, then he gets 200 euros per year. That means that it's not nothing, you don't have to complain about it. They're always talking about, we wouldn't have done anything for part-time workers and minors. So if it's nothing if someone doesn't pay a wage tax if his net income does not exceed €11 000, and if he returns €400 in negative taxes in the year – €150 more than now – then I don't know, Mr. Westenthaler, how you get on it. Please inquire! You can come to me, I explain to you what the difference between a deposit amount and an exemption is. You obviously don't know! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Today is a good day for the commuters. We workers' representatives are committed to this. I expressly thank the coalition partner for bringing this good solution together. I'm glad that we also included the shuttles. My FSG colleagues in the Vienna Chamber of Workers are very angry that it leaves the red-green city government in the rain, as far as the ticket, the park pickerl for weekly commuters is concerned. Even those who have a second residence in Vienna, namely construction workers – that is your clients – leave you in the rain because you are doing this red-green park pickerl chaos in Vienna. [[Abg. Amon: But they are especially the Greens!]] Let something come to mind, because that's not how it goes. We also need to find a solution for this. Otherwise, thank you to Mrs. Federal Minister, also a thank you to Mrs. Mag. Baumgartner, who is really an excellent professional in this field.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11700	Mr Ing. Westenthaler. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11725	Mr President. Thank you, I know the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Tamandl has just said that I would have said that the donor euro would be covered. [[Abg. Tamandl: Yes! You said that!]] - I didn't say that. You can then read the minutes. I'm actually correcting: I said that the pendler's fee is 60 kilometers. This means that someone who travels to St. Pölten gets exactly as much after 63 kilometers as someone who has to drive 108 kilometers to Ybbs. I also said that someone who travels 61 kilometers to Wiener Neustadt gets exactly as much as someone who drives 127 kilometers to Oberwart. That was my statement. Check the record! This also corresponds to what is in the law. This is injustice: that people who have to drive longer, who have to take even more, no longer get, but as much as people who drive less. This is an injustice.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11783	The amendment tabled by Mrs Tamandl was explained in his key points and whether his scope was in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure have already been distributed to Members. It is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11927	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e11959	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Tamandl, one could easily solve the question of red-green pickerl, as you mentioned it, if the country of Lower Austria would provide appropriate public links to Vienna. Only this one sentence on your polemics that you have previously attached. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's the way it is!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am a little surprised at the course of this discussion. Mrs. Moser, as a woman, you will know that for years we have demanded that part-time workers – and that is precisely in the majority of women – also benefit from the penalty and this new solution. Today you're talking about it. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No! I even took it out!]] I'm honest about it. Then I hear the argument that the redistribution is not entirely fair. – Yes, this is unfortunately the case in the existing system from the above-mentioned aspect, but there is also a step in the right direction. From your point of view, I would try to accept that, through the penalty, the less-earners also have a little more of it than they had before. This seems to me to be an essential aspect. The third point I do not understand at all that it is completely ignored by the Green Group is the question of the job ticket. On the one hand, the aim is to give employers and employers an incentive to support the use of public transport by workers. On the other hand, it is intended to make it a little more attractive for workers by not creating any material concerns and follow-up costs. So this is actually an ecological measure. I do not understand at the best of will what you think is against this reform. I'm sorry, but I feel it's a pure polemic, perhaps by country elections that are now at the door. But that is not factual. Basically, demands are supported by you, although not to the extent that you probably wish. But to connect this with the whole problem of public transport or non-existent public transport, I personally feel that it is an excuse for a good solution to be negative. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to address the second point very briefly, because I also believe that this is another step towards justice. Mrs Tamandl tabled an amendment earlier. The new looping scheme in the increased pensioner's retirement rate leads to more sustainability and greater justice. For example, those who previously had 1 750 € gross pension received 1 455 € net. If you get more, you'll find out less in the relationship – a problem that brings you fixed limits. By this amount of grinding, this relation is now also more just. The amount of grinding ends at €2 200. This will also make this pension scheme even more fair. I would very much like to see these innovations discussed here again on the subject. I think everyone in this house feels obliged to the people who live in Austria. We should focus on those points that benefit individual people. I think that this new regulation is good for both the older generation and, above all, for women and low-paid people. I would very much like the other political groups, which are still trying to find something negative, to put these positive rules in the foreground for people and to vote in favour of these proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12021	Mr Jannach has now come to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12042	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! The FPÖ will agree to the promotion of counterparts to this extent. More would have been always desirable for us. We have also put forward our own proposals. We hope that we will strengthen them even further in future negotiations. However, I would like to address one aspect of this support concerning agriculture. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to remind you that in 2012 the stability law of agricultural diesel for farmers was abolished. It is €50 million that has been deprived of farmers per year. This is directly income-effective. Today we are calling for the reintroduction of agricultural diesel. I would like to point out that this is not a promotion of agriculture. This is about balancing unfair conditions of competition. In many European countries, there is an agricultural diesel, a refund on mineral oil. The abolition, which you have decided with the SPÖ and also with the Federal Farmers' representatives, leads to a sharp distortion of competition within Europe in agriculture. We have a comparison from the Federal Ministry of Finance, but from Germany, of what it looks like in the individual countries with the refund of mineral oil tax. Austria is represented in the top field. Many countries have no tax at all on agricultural diesel, such as Cyprus, Portugal, Malta and Luxembourg. That would be small countries, it can be said that this has no effect. In France, there is a minimum refund of mineral oil tax, and that is really a large agricultural country. We call for the reintroduction of agricultural diesel to be reintroduced in line with the level of competition of Austrian agriculture. I would like to point out something that is constantly being turned under the carpet. Mrs. Federal Minister! They have clearly and clearly revealed, in a request response to the Minister for Agriculture, the burdens of the 2012 Stability Act on farmers. It's not just about The 50 million € per year of agricultural diesel compensation, which will be removed from farmers, but also the massive increase in social security contributions, which according to your request will be 85 million € by 2017. They have increased the levy for agricultural and forestry farms – € 10 million per year in additional burden. They have introduced a redeployment levy, which, according to different estimates, will amount to up to €200 million and which, of course, will also be massively burdened on agriculture. And now it comes: They have also contributed to the increase in unit values in agriculture. Even the “Farmsbundzeitung” writes that there will be an average increase of 10 percent of all taxes in agriculture and forestry. That should really be an alarm sign! We want to put a counterpoint there, namely: We call for the reintroduction of agricultural diesel to create a competitive competitive situation for farmers in Europe. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We'll ask you to come with us. We will call for a nameable vote, just as we did in the driving licence law. I would ask you to agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12118	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12180	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12201	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I take it from the discussion already held that the Greens and the BZÖ are opposed to improving the promotion of commuters. – That's one thing. I would like to thank my colleague Mr Tamandl and Mr August Wöginger, who, with the Minister for Finance and Finance, have discussed the matter and worked accordingly so that the government can present this package together today for decision-making. This is the biggest reform of the pendler's fee, which has been introduced since the 25 years ago, initiated by Alois Mock. That's what has been said today. Since then, we have been increasing again and again, but we have not implemented a truly fundamental reform. Today we see that the requirements for workers have become quite different. Of course, workers have become more mobile and flexible. We see this in Lower Austria. Lower Austria has 350 000 counterparts. They want to work, they buy it, they have to drive to another community, to another district, or hundreds of miles. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Because Mr Pröll does not create jobs!]] You know, there are also people who stay at home because they don't want to work because they get a minimum security anyway. That's just by the way. The Lower Austrians and Lower Austrians and the 1.6 million counterparts – from Burgenland, from Carinthia, wherever they are – drive to work, and we want to give these people support. The Federal Minister has already said this quite excellently today. One thing that's a personal concern to me is another: So far, part-time workers had no claim. They were and are primarily the women. We will still have a debate on the Court of Auditors' report on income. It is clear that 86 percent of women working part-time are women. This means that women in particular will benefit, especially those working mothers who say: I'd like to earn it! So far, there have been restrictions: It was so that you had to go to work at least 11 times a month, commuting. Many do not have this with the family that children can agree with. Now, however, weekly and part-time commuters are also entitled to use a pendulum fee. For me, this is a major improvement for women, for families. It is precisely this regulation that brings more justice, especially for part-time workers. We must also remember that the apprentices with their minimum incomes fall into it. There is a significant improvement for them. I've already said it: Not only do the commuters benefit, but they benefit their families. That's what it's all about. Today's decision will bring a real improvement. That is to say, the Pendler Euro is coming and the Pendler Payroll remains. We have done this, and I thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12241	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12262	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The senior speakers of the parliamentary groups were invited two days ago to a discussion with the ÖGB-pensionists. We have been able to take away many suggestions, wishes and concerns. One wish, a concern, was also the injustice with the pensioner's deduction. We are pleased that today, two days later, at least one of these problems can already be solved. The amendment to the Income Tax Act introduces a looping system for the amount of retirement pension payments. So far, possible losses for the future have been eliminated. This also means that there is more justice, more sustainability in the tax system. So far, there has been an increase in the amount of pensioners' deposits up to a monthly gross pension of €1 750. In addition, this deposit amount fell from €753 to €253, which in the extreme case meant a loss of up to €40 per month. With the new regulation, this amount of decommissioning is subject to a looping scheme in order to prevent these disadvantages. Gross annual income from € 19 930 to € 25 000 are the limit values, within these amounts this grinding system works. For the best cases, this can mean an increase of €500 per year for pension income. However, this scheme also means a minus of tax revenue for the state in the order of € 10 million. This also means that it will be ensured in the future that pension increases will in no case result in lower net pensions. I think that it is a just and fair solution that we also like to agree with, and I can ask you to support this request as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12301	Next, Mr. Ing. School speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12323	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As a wine-fourth Member of Parliament, I am really glad today that I am allowed to speak on this decision. Just the Weinviertel is a Pendler district. We have several performance centres – if you want to – the district capitals, and some places where there are industrial companies, but still a very strong orientation to Vienna. Today we hear from the Greens that the drivers are punished, that it is a double laurel and a severing fee – terrible, terrible, terrible. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who says that?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Completely wrong! Turn on the brain and count!]] I can only say: For most families living in the wine district where there are several children, there is a parent couple and perhaps grandparents are there, it is like this: One works in one direction of heaven, the other in the other direction of heaven and the third in a different direction of heaven. Most need a car or at least a bicycle to get to the station. That's the problem in the country. We don't just have a place to work on. If anyone wants to do something, he'll go on. I think that's what you have to say: Pendlers are people who show that they want to do something and therefore also take the effort to have the right and appropriate job for them. That's why Pendler deserves respect once in a while. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Even though we are developing this recognition, this respect, we still know that we still have a budget, where we are terribly under pressure, and that we have a budget where the money is not just running out. Nevertheless, in good cooperation with our Minister of Finance and colleagues, it is August Wögegegelungen that we have achieved a real development that strengthens the Pendler Pauschale, introduces the Pendler Euro and significantly increases the negative tax. [[Abg. Riepl: The Wögerer was not alone!]] In other words, we now have a system that helps those who earn less and for whom the cost of commuting is twice as high as the cost of commuting. That's right. This is a very important measure for us in the countryside – and I am saying this as a farmers' parliament – because all our children have to commute and some of them have to be farmed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gäßner: That is why we need to develop rural areas!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say something to Mr Jannach right now. Mr Jannach has brought the agricultural diesel into question. Mr Jannach! So that we all like to have a cheaper diesel from agriculture, that will probably be so. This will be the case with the tax workers and with all the others who use diesel professionally. [[Abg. May. Gässner: This is the same with the pendulums!]] Nevertheless, we can't decide anything here for a simple reason today. We have taken a decision for the current year with the repayment of autumn 2013 in the last savings budget, namely a contribution by agriculture to the general savings budget. It's only going to be effective. And I would like to say something to Mr Jannach: It will only become effective after the next election. There will be government negotiations, and they will have a lot more to do with issues than just agricultural diesel. This is about the existence of farmers over the next seven years, because the whole of EU funding is also at stake. Please stay with me, Mr Jannach, for this reason a little bit. [[Abg. Jannach: So we vote against it!]] I understand that you are now making a Carinthian election policy and are happy to let a balloon rise, which you know is not meant to be serious. This may be a good thing in Carinthia, but it has nothing to do with reality and politics in this coalition government, because we stand up to what was important. We know exactly what has been left for us in the savings package of concerns and problems, because we have been exposed to the agricultural diesel for a year. However, we will certainly have to talk about some form of this production cost compensation, but only in due time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12444	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12465	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This income tax law, which we are now amending, means that there will be a financial discharge from the taxpayers. It is a pity that the Greens and the BZÖ are not involved in this, but are opposed to the counterparts in our country. It has already been mentioned by the previous speakers the contents of these legislative novels: It is now planned to pay the flat rate for part-time workers. There is a level of compensation for employees who pay little or no income tax due to a low income. The Pendlereuro, which will be directly effective, will also be paid for part-time workers. The job ticket is particularly effective in urban areas, where public transport is expanded. It's a sensible package. It concerns 1.6 million commuters in Austria. It accounts for a volume of €160 million. We won't let that go a little bit. If that's said by the opposition, that's all nothing, then we say that's something. On the subject of Mr Rossmann: He speaks of social injustice. Mr President, I should like to thank The opposite is the case. We are at the forefront of Austria in terms of distribution justice in terms of social justice. I recommend reading the Keussnigg study. It is clearly stated that Austria is at the forefront of Europe in terms of social justice. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: It has so many mistakes! She's made so bad!]] With this reform, we are taking a further step in this direction, and the counterparts benefit from it. Mr Rossmann also spoke of a stoppage. - The exact opposite is the case. It is now in rural areas that the job is not at the doorstep of every employee. I'm from the lung. There are 75 percent of the population dependent on commuting. Only 25 percent have the workplace in their own place. 25 percent have to travel to another district. That means time and effort, and it is necessary that we also support these people accordingly. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why do the poor get almost nothing?]] There is also the question of whether there will be a vibrant, lively rural area in the future. There's the question of whether entire valleys are threatening a depopulation. I believe that this must also be seen in this context, and that is why it is important that we ensure support accordingly. I'm allowed to go to wife's house. Federal Minister Fekter warmly thanked Mr Wöginger for this initiative, including Mr Wöginger, who has made massive efforts so that we can now decide on this good regulation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12515	Mr Maij-Weggen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12536	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! - You can be quietly curious. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Now all are curious!]] I'll praise what's good. I give all the right today to speak of a good day for the approximately 1.6 million commuters. With all the criticism and all the weakness that any law can have, perhaps this too, I think, we should all put the good will in the House here, namely that we give the hard-affected commuters, who drive many miles every day and take additional burdens to carry out their work, also the support they have earned, and a little back from what they bring in tax performance for this Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, if we have about 330 000 people who are referring the small flatrates to their arrival by public transport, if we have 800 000 people who get the big pendler break and know that about 160 000 counterparts are now getting back more into the market with the negative tax, then this is also fair because we know today that we have an increase rate of 2.8 percent and that we need to raise 7.9 percent in addition to the cost of the fuel prices. Just as a Burgenländer, I know how much the pendulum meets us. After all, it is almost 40 percent of the citizens who have to leave the country in order to get to their place of work. It is therefore crucial that we take this measure today. I just don't understand the greens when they try to present this differently here with social romance. It would be good if you, too, in all the weaknesses that any law can have, would send a signal and an appreciation to the comrades by agreeing to this law. There can always be a little more, but we're on the right track. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This can be better!]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for going this way with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12605	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12627	Mr President. High house! My previous speaker said that today is a good day for the comrades. But it is also a good day for many pensioners, for all those who already have to turn every euro three times. What's this about? – It’s about improvements in the single-earner discount rate. Acting retroactively with 1. January, tens of thousands of single-earner seniors get more money into the stock exchange. We are talking about sums of around 30 € more per month, which are very important for seniors. Why? – Seniors don't have a chance to work out a pension anymore. Last year, together with you, Mrs Finanzminister, we succeeded in reintroducing the AVAB. Up to a gross pension of €1 750, this deposit amount returned to the pensioners. Now let's take the next step. We are expanding the population by tens of thousands of senior families, by all those whose gross pension is below €2 200 per month. So until then, there will be the grinding system. Why is that so important to us? – So far, everyone who has only 1 € more pension than the current limit will lose the full amount of deposit. This has hit a lot worse, and that is why there is the new regulation. There should be no more such hardships now. That can't happen anymore. The new scheme has been promised to senior representatives in the pension negotiations. Thank you very much, Mrs Minister, for keeping this promise. Thank you very much, Mrs. Minister, for helping these families now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is about families who have often raised several children. They have contributed a lot to the success of the generation contract. That alone should put this measure out of discussion. All in all, it's another help for senior families, an important signal. For us, the family is an important asset in working life and also in the pension. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12670	Second word: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12716	I hold fast, dear comrades, Otto Pendl, Josef Cap, colleague Wittmann, this cannot have been meant by Bruno Kreisky in the 1970s. I also believe that if I look at the skeptical faces of trade unionists, that cannot be your concept of social justice, which we decide today, namely this system of injustice at the Pendler's Paschale. [[Abg. New builder: Pendl-Pauschale!]] I just don't think Bruno Kreisky meant in the 1970s when he invented the commuting compensation for construction workers who had to go to the conurbation centres. At the time, he certainly did not know that his comrades would decide to set up a system with the principle in Parliament 40 years later. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The worker must tighten the belt?- Oh, my God!]] Those who earn more are expected to receive a higher level of support in the future. – He certainly did not mean that, Bruno Kreisky. I can't imagine you guys being so uncritical. There was even the colleague Slickovits, an ÖAPBS, critical. He didn't say what he really meant, but he said: Any law can have weaknesses. – There he has already pushed around for the criticism that was natural to feel. Social democracy, Silhavy, Rudas, is celebrating this as if it were now the new path of social justice. We take note here, for you this is the path of social justice: The lower bottoms, who have less, get less commuting, and those who have more, get more. – This is the principle of social democracy, social justice. I note once again that there is a capping of the pendler fee at 60 kilometers. [[Abg. Wöginger: We're changing that right now!]] That is, all those who have to travel longer, will be punished again. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] Everyone who commutes more than 60 kilometers doesn't get any more. I further note that the so-called Pendlereuro, which is now sold as the all-healing agent, is not a direct promotion, but a deduction amount that is not income-independent, but, of course, income-dependent, because the Pendlereuro cannot be applied for for for to all those who fall below this income tax limit of €12 500. That means he's not there for everyone. He's income dependent. I note that today a day shuttle, which travels 75 kilometers of easy roadway and earns 1 000 € per month, is charged with 400 €, and a daily pendulum, which earns 5 000 € per month, is charged with a total of 1 586 €. – This is social justice? That's a huge difference in the discharge? You let one who earns €5,000 cash over €1,500 in commuting aid and one who earns €1,000 gets only €400? – This is a great injustice. In fact, this is not to stand out, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But let's keep expecting it. The one with 1 000 € has 400 € in discharge, but is not allowed to apply for an extra euro because it does not receive a deposit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Clickovits]] The one with 5 000 €, which already gets 1 500 € Pendlerent damage, also receives the Pendlereuro, which gets 75 kilometers, double way, also 150 € – wonderful –, that is again. It will be rewarded once again, and it will be punished with €1,000 again. If you look at this now and calculate it down: The one with 1 000 € earnings and 400 € discharge without pendlereuro, which has – I have already said it before, I say it very correctly now – 3 307,50 € per year pure spray cost. I don't do it now like the Chamber of Workers, which still calculates the loss of value of the car, I don't do that. If the pure spray burden is €3 307 minus €400 in compensation that he receives as a donor's allowance, no pendulum euro, then a total charge remains, just because he has to drive to work, of €2 907. That's 24.4 percent. So about a quarter of his annual income must be spent for the commuting of the one who earns €1,000. Now it comes: Do you know how much that was before you decided on your great reform today? – It was 25.6 percent. That is, the one who earns €1,000 and commutes 75 kilometres now has a pure discharge of 1.2 percentage points. He'll thank you very much. Wonderful! The grand copper with €5,000 is much better relieved, and that is the injustice we see here, and therefore we strongly reject it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now one more account so that you can see how unfair this system is – I am referring to the activity of the government in this legislative period –: During this legislative period, you have raised the mineral oil tax twice, once in 2007 and once in 2011. [[Abg. Krainer: The legislative period began in 2008!]] Now I am again with our example, the commuter, who earns €1,000 and travels 75 kilometers. It has an additional burden of €283.44 per year only through the increase in mineral oil tax. Do you know how much more you're giving him now? – 149 €. Overtly formulated, one could say: Of the 149 € that he gets more today, our donor with 1 000 € income and 75 kilometers of easy distance, he must pay 283.44 € for the mineral oil tax increases of your government. That's not going to work out. This is a loss of 134 €. This is your blessed bill of today's alms distribution that you carry out there. Genuine yourself when you screw up the mineral oil tax and give the counterparts with 1 000 € income here only 149 €, but to those who earn more, give much more! This is an unjust reward for the donor, which does not deserve the name at all, for it is in reality a massive burden for those who deserve less, and those who have to drive more. I don't understand at all that you decide today. We have repeatedly propagated the principle that a real kilometre money is to be paid per kilometre. [[Abg. Strache: They'd rather be for less! You'd rather pay less for miles!]] I don't understand at all – I have to say that honestly, comrades from the FPÖ – why you are falling over there today and the government is making the wall for this social injustice. That's not great either, I have to say, before the big election day on Sunday. It's not great, it's your idea today.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12852	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 2177 of the Supplements. Mr Tamandel, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a supplementary or amendment. I would therefore like to begin by voting on the parts concerned by this supplementary and amending proposal and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Tamandel, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning paragraphs 1, 4 and 6. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their consent to a positive sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, ladies and gentlemen, on the rapid reform of the penalty and the implementation of a kilometre-dependent bill with a negative tax effect on the discharge of commuters. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, colleagues, on the reintroduction of agricultural diesel. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members as well as the name 'Yes', which are the grey ballots, or 'No', which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of Mr Jannach's motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the 'yes' vote, those who vote against, to cast 'No' vote. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark. I now ask the author, Mrs Binder-Maier, to begin the call for name; Mrs Franz will replace them. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e12983	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the scribes. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. (The competent staff shall make the number of votes. – The meeting was suspended at 2.08 p.m. and resumed at 2.12 p.m. )
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13023	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 158; of which ‘Yes’ votes 49, ‘No’ voices 109. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. The names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein; Deimek, Dolinschek; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Hofer, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kaufmann-Bruckberger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kunasek; Laust, Linder, List; Markowitz, Mayerhofer; Neubauer Werner; Petzner, Podgorschek; Riemer; Scheibner, Donk, Spadiut, Stefan, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Venier, Vilimsky, Vock; Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windwood, Winter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer, strike-through; Incubators, eaters; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gaßner, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Hakl Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Höfinger, Hellererer, Hörl, Hornek; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Kirchgatterer, Slickovits, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Korun, Chicken, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl; Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Johann, Marek, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Moser, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Upper nostrils, oleaginous; Pack, Pendl, Pilz, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rasinger, Riepl, Rossmann, Rudas; Sacher, Schatz, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steinhauser, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Walser, Wenninger, Windbüchler-Souschill, Windish, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm; Zinggl. [[14:13:12]] 2. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (2142, d.e._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the University Law 2002 (2180 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13218	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Karlsböck. 4 minutes of voluntary speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13246	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The identity of a country can be established at several points. They can be attached to the social system, to the health system, to the legal system – these are all grown structures. And a very large pillar in this regard is the education system. In this educational system, which is a three-stage system in Austria, we have a tradition, namely that we have had free access to higher education for decades. This free access to higher education, free access to universities, is a great asset for our youth, but also for us who have studied. And even if we do not belong to their party, we must say that it would turn around the Minister at the time in Firnberg's grave if she would have to know that today's law of free access to higher education will de facto be abolished. Of course, it will only be abolished by forma in five supergroups with 28 studies, but de facto, after there has been only one exception in sports, art and in the last few years also in medicine, there will be a paradigm change, which will completely eliminate free access to higher education. That is to say, the principle of restriction of access will be the norm. We from the liberals are forcing a completely different system: We are forcing the study-place-oriented model, in which we could also inculcate every year – as it happens in Bavaria, for example, at medical universities, where each year new evaluations are re-evaluated and sharpened, whether the places, as they are present at the moment, are rich or not rich. You, Mr Minister, and also the coalition want to freeze the capacity-oriented model. And that, I tell you, is a betrayal of our youth. The young people are not prepared either. We've seen this at the medical test, which I'll come to talk to afterwards. In our opinion, the law as such is also a lazy compromise. It was whipped through at an incredible speed; an unusual, incredible speed – first point. The second point: It shall be put into effect retroactively. We believe that this is unconstitutional and it will also be abolished. And the biggest chuzpe in all history is that this law has only a validity of twelve months. We have an election year, ladies and gentlemen, and there is such an important law in force for only 12 months. We can assume that in 12 months the whole thing may be brought back. This is a planning uncertainty, which is a disaster for all those involved in the system, both for students and teachers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Access schemes should be introduced. – I claim that our country is not mature for access schemes. The people acting for access schemes do not have the design skills to let us see a good solution here. Of course, some will now argue that there are access schemes around the world. That's right, too. These access schemes are part of a certain system, a university culture. A few years ago, because of the pressure from the EU, we introduced the EMS test. This EMS test is a useful tool to cope with this nightly storm. It was planned to carry out this test only for a certain period of time and then organize the study differently so that he would no longer be necessary. After all, we all studied at a mass university. All here today who have an academic title, if they have studied in Austria, have attended a mass university. And we all got through some kind of good, and everybody's got their husband or wife in this area these days. And why shouldn't this go on today? It's enough money in the system, it's only misappropriated. We now have this EMS test. What can happen and how a system of access is misinterpreted, simply sloppy or unable to be implemented, I would just like to show you by this example. It has already been noted in recent years that through this EMS test, the access test for medicine, the women in Some form was disadvantaged because, on the same conditions, more men simply made this test. There you went and said: We have to do something here in a gender way, and we have started to make a change. It has been said that at the end of the day 50 : 50 must come out. There has not been an accurate description of the way in which the evaluation has been carried out. This was said to the candidate only after completion of the test. The fact is that there has been an uneven measurement of: Girls who cut off worse passed the test, boys who were better didn't pass him. This has led to a whole cascade of effects: It has, of course, led to complaints. Then the Minister also responded, announced a change and assured the disadvantaged fellows that they were at least still entering the system. And before Christmas there was a vote in the Senate. Of the 26 members present, 13 voted in favour, twelve voted against, there was a reluctance. This was then interpreted by the university, by the rectorate, as a pathetic situation: Because 13 were against it and twelve were against it, they said: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision is negative. With this, the university has violated – I am saying this now in a short time – several provisions. We also have a statute, and in the statutes of the University of Vienna stands for example inside: “ The Medical University of Vienna is oriented towards the goals of a human society and is committed to the principle of justice and equality of all people, regardless of their gender ” – has been violated. “The Medical University respects the principle of equal opportunities for all students in order to fulfil its tasks” – has been violated. “The Medical University of Vienna is committed to complying with the principles of gender mainstreaming and equality ” – has been violated. It was, of course, not equality, but simply a preference. In addition, the Medical University has also violated Article 3 of the Basic Law and § 2 – its own governing principles – and § 3 – tasks – of the University Law 2002. I'll put it together again: From an ideological error one has deliberately done a legal bending. Minister! You say you can't do anything. – I say you can do something already, because there are the target agreements that are to be negotiated. Although not every year, but last year, in December, target agreements have been negotiated. You'd have a pressure agent in your hand. I'll sum up once again. The access schemes are only a small segment of the new university law that was violated. The Basic Law has been violated, the Preamble of the Statute has been violated, the principle of performance has been violated, the provisions on the promotion of women have been violated and, finally, the academic principle has been grossly violated. What I want to say with it: We will introduce bad habits with this law. What we want – free access – will be abolished. We will not agree to this law. Instead, we call for a referral back to committee in order to be able to discuss it properly with all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13342	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13363	Mr President! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators! There is an important innovation in the university law today. It has been planned and prepared for a long time. [[Abg. Kickl: A panties from the front to the back!]] It is a focus of this legislative period and it sets the course for a new model of university financing. I would say that the contribution before this has little reference to the law, so I will do so now. I would like to thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister, for this work, very much, because this great changeover has required a lot of work, a lot of work on data processing, a change of system throughout the planning of the resort, and a warm thanks also from our side. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This applause applies to the Federal Minister. [[Abg. Grosz: Very poor applause! There's hardly any of you!]] You too can praise it, because the staff of the resort deserved it. [[Abg. Grosz: Shall we help you because you are only so few?]] Let me get back to the law. – It is important that we focus more on the area of budget allocation. Universities that have more demand in certain fields of study and study will also receive more budgets. Of course there are also limits. Here, too, in this hall, only a number of delegates fit, in each lecture hall only a number of students fit and in every opera house only a number of visitors are possible. This logic must also be implemented in the university context, as has already been achieved successfully in the field of higher education. What does that mean? – The support relationship per student needs to become a size that helps to determine the budget allocation. What else needs to be important? – We need to consider how many laboratories we have and how many students in the laboratories can really work at the same time. What does the care look like when writing a diploma thesis has completed a Master's thesis in the old study order if there are now new courses of study? All this needs support from scientific staff. This relationship is now to be defined jointly according to international standards. This is standard across Europe. What we are doing here today is nothing more than allowing normality for our competitive universities in Austria with a first model, a first step in the right direction and deciding to do so. It is particularly important to us that the students, who have long expressed themselves in all surveys for clear, transparent, comprehensible admission procedures, find fair conditions. It must not be so that the person who has sat on the computer at midnight and has quickly signed up for a seminar place where it is. Instead, we want fair study conditions for students, clear allocations to universities and where the capacities are simply not enough, admission procedures. The admission procedures need to be improved – no question that this is not yet sufficiently well solved at the Medical University. I worked for several years at an art university, namely at the Kunstuniversität Graz. There is an excellent, internationally recognized admission procedure per semester to be carried out. There are no more complaints, and I am sure that the Medical University of Vienna will also be able to design even better reception procedures in the future. In conclusion: What is important to us? – Minister of State! Thank you for this important step. The preliminary work of the University Conference was quite, very important. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Have they been transferred for this purpose?]] We would like to help you stay on this path, test the models and step by step introduce the entire model of the University Conference. We need budget resources to do this. We are one of the few countries in Europe that, despite consolidation, have given their universities more budgets. This budget with 95 additional full-time equivalents is intended to enable the first test steps. We will support you in taking these tests step by step, as well as further implementation steps across the board. Thank you! And as one opposition party said: You've managed the biggest novelle since Firnberg.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13446	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13467	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! The comparison with a sold out opera is grotesk. A better card costs 200 € for three hours. If that's what you want, say it! You might also say: Let us take out every second row here – democratically – and then there are only more than 90 Members here; the other 90 stay outside. Is that a policy? – I mean: No, no, no, Yes, it's an important novel, but it's not a good novel. I admit that she has been somewhat improved by the negotiations with my colleague Andrea Kuntzl, but there has nevertheless been no law to which we can agree. We are in the best society. The University Conference was mentioned. What does he write? – The draft is “heavy practical and presents the universities with the difficult task of implementing the unbridled solution in the short term”. What does the Council say about research and technology development? – The proposed scheme only prolonges the ‘unsatisfying state of affairs’. There is a need for “adequate funding” of places of study. Her own study, Mr. Minister, says that only the study place funding for the first section of the Bakkalaureat costs about €400 million. There's no mention of a master's degree and doctoral studies yet. Where are you taking the money from? – Of this not real billion, nothing remains. € 140 million has been transferred to the Tirol Health Council to cover the deficit of the Landeskrankenhaus Innsbruck, and it is not known whether this serves research, teaching, or whether one buys heat bottles, body bowls or fever knives. That's intrusive! The Research and Technology Development Council also says that part of the research expenditure will be measured according to the number of students active in the examination. – However, examination inactive must not be called study inactive. This was criticized by rectors and many others. People have to work more and more in order to earn the money for their studies, and do not do any exams. All this is thrown into a pot. One writes a diploma thesis or dissertation and de facto has made all the examinations up to the last, and thus no more examinations. They're all in check-in. These are wooden trapping methods on and on. They know that the young scientists come from the students and the graduates. You read in the newspapers yesterday and today that almost 4,000 doctors migrate abroad, as there are no prospects here. Many people who have scholarships abroad, young researchers, do not come back because they have no prospects at universities. [[Abg. Hörl: You're studying elsewhere!]] Please? - Or they're studying somewhere else. Yeah, you can do that. I don't want that! If that's what you want, say it! How about these 95 professors now? Is this now valid for three periods of agreement, or are they coming in the first three years? Do you know that the professors may also need a secretariat, a room and at least an assistant? What does that cost? Is that money there? - I don't know. Many studies, which are strongly questioned, do not have enough rooms! There can be a professor, but if he takes his umbrella and his briefcase, the room is full if there is one at all. It's just not talking about what's annoying me. In the past we were often involved in the dialogue, already discussed at the law-making stage. And now it's so that it's not possible to talk to you. No more talking for a year and a half. If you ask questions in the Committee, you will always find a reason not to answer them. I wonder who has the power of decision whether or not a minister remains unimpeded and untangled by annoying questions? Is it about how he feels? Who owns it? I think Members have a right to do so. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] During the course of the study, you will discuss the need to increase the reliability of the meeting. Who informs the students? Is there what you have proposed, namely a reform of the upper level, according to which university teachers come into the subject and report on the study and the requirements of a study? 35 percent of those enrolled in physics leave the study in the first year. 64 percent do not take exams in the first year because they consider the math requirements too difficult and too high. Who's telling you about it? They have taken back a novel to complete Maturant advice because it must be cost-neutral. What is this advice that is cost-neutral? - A bad one! Nobody's talking about it either. Schnupperwochen at the university from school – that was not discussed. On the test procedures again – I say it for the hundredth time –: All experts say that the test procedures have a validity and reliability, which is 16 percent higher than the lot! And with that, the lives of young people decide! And what do those who won't be taken in? Do you have a tip? – Minister Däderle said that it had been misinterpreted, that everything had been maliciously interpreted. I remember saying that they should do something else for three or four years, then better times come and then they can choose to study their choice. – This will not calm people, nor will their parents. The entry and orientation phase does not deserve this name. The listeners need to know that only two lectures are to be held during this initial phase, and they are to provide an orientation for the entire study. After two months, the decision will be taken. This is a study in which the remarkableness, the buffalo is promoted, but not the professionalism. A study is not supposed to be a winddog race. I probably agree with the Federal Minister's daughter, but still everything is done to make it one. And what happens in the field of medicine? – There is now a new location in Linz. I know that Minister Dendegle is not happy and - let us say - also an opponent of it. Do you know that when many places of study are transferred to Linz, the quota scheme is likely to fall and study places for Austrians are no longer as secure as they are now? To all of this: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The unique as well as the Council for Research and Technology Development – and I do not enjoy being really in agreement with them – say: If you want to improve something, you have to take new money into your hand and not always sell old money as new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13518	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13539	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Today, we are adopting a pilot project on the funding of study places, which is intended to bring about a new, transparent and fairer form of funding for universities. This pilot experiment in five areas of study, where the pressure is particularly high, is trying to improve the study conditions, by increasing the staff and not by reducing the places of study. This preliminary work has already been quoted. There is a very detailed study of the unico, the rectors, who had the goal of using the study site funding in such a way that we had halved the existing study places. In this respect, the dissatisfaction of the rectors with the current novel, which they are expressing today, is well justified because we do not at all reduce – and do not at all reduce by half – the places, but even small ones, but still expand them. From our point of view, this is a particularly important result of the negotiations that we have led to the funding of study places, because we have said from the outset: Yes, study ground financing as an instrument for a more fair, transparent financing of universities, but not, as originally planned, as a means of reducing places of study. In discussions which have been very constructive from my point of view, we have agreed with the coalition partner, the Federal Minister, that, in the context of the international development of the need, we do not want to take measures in Austria, which lead to fewer students. We need more well-qualified students in the country. So the first basic agreement we reached was that we want to set up the funding of study places in such a way that we do not reduce the number of students in Austria. In this context, I must also point out – of course for the time being – that I cannot understand the artificial excitement of the liberals in this regard, because the framework conditions we find today have also been substantially achieved by the way you acted in the phase in which you were in the government. The memory already fades a little that you have been in the government, but in this case you can, under quotation marks, “keep” that you have contributed to making long-term adjustments that now have a very massive impact on the framework conditions that the universities find. [[Abg. Such a fool!]] This is not stupid, because, if I can remember, you will have just at the beginning of your government activity under conditions where we were pleased to find that more people in Austria were studying that the number of students who returned the budgets of universities did not freeze, but actually reduced. At the time, this was publicly discussed under the heading "Hungary of the Universities". Only after a few years has the initial level of university funding been reached again in gentle stages. If the funds are reduced by increasing study numbers and not expanded, there will be no expansion of the courses at the universities. This is your legacy that we need to deal with now. You have set a long-term course in politics, leaving this situation behind. In this pilot experiment, we will continue to act on the principle that everyone in Austria should be able to start their studies if possible, even if not always at the university of the first election. It will not be comprehensive in individual fields of study, at individual locations, and it is important to us that there are precise requirements in the law. These procedures must be multi-stage. There will not be the fateful single Knock-out test. There must be an early demarcation of substances so that people can prepare themselves for the tests accordingly and know what they expect; and there must not be discrimination after sex. What is particularly important to us: This pilot experiment must be observed and evaluated, including how the social composition of students changes. Because what we really don't want is that it depends on the origin, on the parents' home, how the educational opportunities of a person in that country develop. This will be closely monitored. There will be an appropriate evaluation of this pilot project. It is also important to us that, in this context, the entry-level phase is also intensified that – and that was a common concern for both of us – this fateful examination and its impact, namely the lifelong blocking of a study at a university, will no longer exist. To sum up, I think, this is a pilot attempt, which will be launched after a very responsible, long and detailed discussion and is an absolutely tangible compromise, on which we can stand very well.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13585	Next speaker: Member of the list. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13606	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister Däderle! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister Däderle is self-evidently knocking on his shoulder and wants to sell us this law as a milestone in science policy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is totally unheard of! A study place funding in only five areas, including architecture and biology, is by no means a great throw. On the contrary, the new law has been particularly thin. It is another plea for this long failed coalition and proves once again: In the negotiations, only a lazy compromise was reached on a party-political basis. Both government parties did not want the result in this form at all, that is obvious, they separate both worlds in the scientific field. Accordingly weak and sad the reasons for this wrong law in the committee and also here in the High House have failed from the right and from the left half of the empire. The law is a disaster for students and universities. In advance, the Austrian high school especially criticizes this law. It is, literally, horrified – a logically very, very left-wing position that is taken here. Heavy accusations to the law also come from the rectors. For many rectors, the law is difficult to practice. It is a completely unforgettable law and difficult to implement, a false grand coalition compromise without real prospects. That is why an outraged rector, Badelt, criticizes this failed federal government and, I say, it's a quote before I get a call for order here – that this university policy was a lie. The high school sufferers are suffering, students are tormented, there is great study frustration. In view of this justified massive criticism, it is an hour to hold an objective debate with stakeholders and experts. The opposition should also be able to make meaningful proposals at any time. Our attempt in the last committee, and in total, to allow sufficient debate, was prevented by all means by the major parties here in the house. Not being able to discuss a law enough is a cowardice! Now, however, it is unheard of by red and black with all the force and yet to decide retroactively, that is unheard of! That's actually the scandal! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the chaos at the universities, the ÖVP is to blame, and one sees that you have no interest at all, even in this scientific debate. The blacks have been in the Federal Government continuously for 27 years. They sit at the tops of this country and therefore unfortunately also in the scientific field. I have already told you before, Mr Federal Minister, your predecessor, Mr Hahn, and Karl and now you yourself, Minister of Foreign Affairs, have all failed in science policy. This also confirms the complaining attempt to sell this law now as the greatest success since the era of a Minister Firnberg. That's really a weak argument. These weak arguments prove that the blacks have blocked every science reform for decades. In summary, the law is a disaster for universities and students. It's not mature. It only serves the failed federal government to preserve power. With this, Red and Black want to receive their freedom of action after the elections in autumn. This Husch-Pfusch-law immediately allows the Red and Blacks any ideological change if they serve their party interests and ask you for it. Thus the law deserves not enough and is rejected by the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13672	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13694	Federal Minister! Mr President. If you are looking for an example of a mandatory opposition speech, I have to say, this has just been the case. [[Abg. Grosz: Great,!]] If the Justament stand is the content of your policy, then it's a little too bad. If you claim that students would be tormented by this law and therefore be frustrated, then that is complete nonsense. [[Call at the BZÖ: This is the general state!]] Students are frustrated by the situation that is now happening at the universities. This is the cause of the evil, the trouble and the frustration. That is why, after a year of negotiation, it was also high time for students to take steps at last; for even longer to suspend this situation, as it now prevails, I consider it not only negligent, but also from the point of view of the students to be an expression. I am also in favour of this, and we stress this by a hundred percent on the part of my group that every student, every student in Austria, should be able to study what he or she wants, even if it is not the desired university, we stand for it. But it is also about awakening expectations that can also be fulfilled at the end of the day. If, due to the study conditions at the universities, there is a sign that proper and efficient study is not possible, then this is a problem where policy has to be dealt with. And we have dealt with today's law, so the Federal Minister has assumed his responsibility. Why do we stress today that these five or ten universities, which are concerned with these five disciplines, will once take a test phase? – Not because we are not sure that this is a useful measure, but because, in the implementation, of course, errors can occur and improvement potential can be shown. And we do not want to improve these mistakes accordingly if the need exists. Mr Grünewald raised the question of additional professors and the question: What do you do if you can pay the people, but the infrastructure is missing? Addressed. – Well, these are already equivalents that are made available. It seems clear to me that this is not only a matter of income, but of course that the infrastructure is also necessary. This shows once again that it is ultimately also a question of capacity at universities, because infrastructure is now also capacity. That is why I believe that this path, as we have now seen it, is right, with the definition of capacities, with admission procedures that the universities can autonomously define, where students, when applying, must be aware of what they need to be able to do, what the goal is. I think this is the way we come to well-trained academics in Austria, who are excited about the study – and are not frustrated, as is often the case now.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13739	The next speaker was Mr Markowitz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13762	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! According to my previous speaker, I must say that you must not forget one thing: There was a study fee at the time, they were introduced under black and blue. And what happened to this money? – Nothing else has happened with this money but that any budget holes have been stopped. That's the main problem. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. New builder.]] It would have been good if one had done what we had called for for for years, namely that the money was intended for the universities! That's what we're calling for. [[Abg. Höfinger: Who has called for this for years?- Oh, my God!]] - Please? I've been asking for this for years. I've been here for five years. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] – Dear colleague, now I'm telling you something: That's typical ÖVP. You run out, as always. First you bring a stupid message and then you go out at the door again. Well, that's right. “Hands fold, goschen hold!” I know from the ÖVP. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr President,!]] What we demand is that the money comes from the one who finances it. That is, if study fees are to be charged, then this money must also flow into the infrastructure there. Now we have just heard that this will be decided by the Federal Government, and that is also to be welcomed. I also think it is good that the capacities are checked and that one looks at the fact that someone who wants to move on quickly will not be hindered. That's a good thing. But we want only the best of the best to be released to our students, so it goes on with the professors, and of course also that the money flows where it is needed, where there are shortcomings. These are the halls. We've all seen that. And if someone wants to study quickly, he's got problems writing and so on. As far as funding is concerned, I would like us to put the lever on funding for research funding. Mr. Minister, I looked at this. That's an outrage in the EU! If I look at the funding guidelines now, then I see that at once, in order to get to a project and money, the project costs increase. Funding amounts are indicated that the real costs are fast, that all of a sudden the unpaid overtime is charged to the employees! So, Minister, I think you will be right in saying that in the future there will really be no more! There's just this promotion jungle all around. Nobody really knows. If someone does this correctly, I'm the last one who says he doesn't belong promoted. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr Minister, it is always important for projects to be supported here, but there has been far too little happening over the past 11 years. That is why the Court of Auditors is also strongly criticised. That is why I would ask you to simply implement this in the future, so that the many funds that are correct and important for research do not somehow send them into other projects and false channels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13849	On a point of view, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Däderle, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13870	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, this law is a compromise and it is a good compromise. It is a compromise between two extreme positions. One extreme position is – and it is represented by, among other things, parts of high school: There must never be any capacity limits at Austrian universities. The other extreme position, partly represented by rectors, means: We have too many students, we want fewer students. This law is precisely in between by doing two things, by providing the universities with more support staff, on the one hand, and on the other hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, there is a ceiling of the places of study in particularly requested subjects. It is the first step towards a different funding of universities, a study place financing, one, as it is officially called, capacity-oriented student-related university funding. This new funding, which we want to implement over several service periods, i.e. over the course of about nine years, will mean that we will no longer finance universities through a basic budget and a formula budget, but through places of study. This makes the funding of universities more transparent and makes them particularly relevant to students. This will ensure that, after completing this longer process, we have a funding for the universities, which ensures that each individual student at the Austrian universities has a suitable quality of care. This is the main objective of this funding: to improve the quality of study and to ensure the quality of study at the Austrian universities in all fields. This is a very complex, difficult process, for which other countries that we have looked at have taken many years, in which other countries have not yet reached where they want to end up, namely in an ideal care relationship in all subjects. This requires a wealth of measures. It also needs more money, that's right. This money must be created for universities, but it is also a longer process. We have now begun this process. We have started where it is urgent, namely in highly sought-after subjects. The fact that we are starting this process has been decided in 2010 at a summit in which the then Vice-Chancellor Pröll and the current Chancellor Faymann met with the Bureau of the Uniko. It continued in 2011 when ministry and uniko jointly developed a model, namely after taking note of attempts and efforts in other countries. In 2012, we then developed the basis for this bill in a very, very long and intensive negotiation with the coalition partner. He is now being introduced as a test – so it was decided in a government clause at Semmering – in five highly sought-after fields of study. There we do exactly what is to be done. We turn on two screws to improve the quality of study and care. We are giving more support to these subjects, which we are considering in this test. There are equivalents for 95 professorships of 36 million €. We also set the limits of the places for the students. This ceiling is in four cases higher than the current demand – in one case lower, in the field of architecture, for certain reasons. Otherwise, it is higher than the current demand. That is, as I said, the uniko too high. But we have agreed with the coalition partner, and this is also my conviction that in times when the whole world is expanding the tertiary education sector, we in Austria cannot build back places in tertiary education. This area still needs to grow, but it needs to grow with an eye measure. It must grow so that the quality of study does not suffer. That is why we need, as the second, the caps on capacity. I think that's very plausible. Austria cannot, of course, provide unlimited places for the whole of the European Union – and access is free for all. I just can't do that. We must have these capacity limits. But we draw them up at an altitude that in Austria everyone can study the subject he wants to study, but perhaps not at the place where he wants, but he can do it in Austria. This requires, of course, more precise and intensive negotiations with each university. We have entered into these negotiations. Of course, there is also a need for good communication of what is relevant to the students here. They must be registered in the subject they wish to study if it is affected by this regulation. If the number of registered persons exceeds the number of places, they may also have to undergo a multi-stage admission procedure. But you can also stay at Unis, where there is still room, so to speak. This too has to be communicated early. It is therefore important to prepare solidly and to provide solid information. Both of us are doing this, and I am happy to report that the universities, even if they register concerns because of the number of places of study there and there, are very cooperative and that we will do so together with the universities in such a way that there is an absolutely transparent and manageable procedure. In fact, I believe we have taken an important step towards new funding. The superlatives mentioned and criticized here do not come from me. But what you have to say: It is an important step towards a new type of university funding. And I am grateful to all those who have helped me to take this step.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e13946	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Markowitz is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14027	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14048	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Science! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to follow on from what the Minister said at the outset, namely to all those who have contributed to the state of this law, to express my warm thanks. I would particularly like to thank the representatives of our club, the scientific spokesperson Andrea Kuntzl, for having been in direct contact with them and having experienced the most. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] But I also know about the flexibility of the EIA Group. That's something that's very important. The various speeches have shown how different the positions are. The comparison with the opera that Mrs Cortolezis brought on is not true in Weitem. Not all that limps is a comparison. You can't say: Just like an opera or as Parliament is full, the university is full. This comparison is not quite worthy of the debate, I would say. But this also shows the discrepancy that was there to make clear how to get a new access in a law. I mean, this has indeed been successful, because the decision-making law of the university actually marks a new path in its novelle in 2013. We want to step-by-step progress in the expansion of the funding of study places. It should be ensured in the long term that a sufficient number of study places are available that guarantee adequate study conditions in the international comparison. In the future, we want us to avoid having to shy away from other countries. That is, we are not going back with the quality or with the necessary quantity. On the contrary: Everyone can study his subject – as it has already been put to the fore – but perhaps not always at his desired university. This novelle, with its quality improvement pact, initially applies to five particularly highly requested fields of study. These are pharmacy, biology, architecture, economics and computer science. However, by creating 95 additional, new professorships, the care conditions, that is, students per professor or vice versa, are introduced to international standards without reducing the number of students in order not to cause any deterioration. And that seems to me to be the essential. For reasons of time, I am now saving myself from quoting the law, where the figures are expressly recorded. I mean, the work on the higher education plan is on the right track in the field of student funding sub-project. We are entering a phase of measurable changes and improvements. Ladies and gentlemen! Just as it is important in the field of education not to leave a child on the track as far as possible and to promote and demand each child's individual talents accordingly, it must also be the goal in the field of tertiary education that each individual is open to a student, regardless of his or her own income or the income of his or her parents. This is then to be arranged in a further negotiation on the reorientation of study funding. A law can't do that. But that's what we're fighting for, and that's what it's done. Therefore: Thank you. I congratulate you on this outcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14099	Mrs Mag. Inconsistency now comes to the fore. I'll set the clock up to 4 minutes. Just to remember: At 3:13 p.m., negotiations will be suspended to call for urgent request. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14121	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You've heard: We liberals stand for free access to higher education in Austria. However, with the novelle of the university law, the principle – I am now talking about the principle – is to standardize access restrictions instead of free access to higher education. My colleague, President Graf, put forward arguments in the Science Committee, which, in his opinion, are against this amendment of the law, and you, Minister Denkele, replied that you do not want to address this polemic. And this approach – this approach! – I would like to commend today in plenary, for the following three reasons: Point one: You do not seem to know, Minister, that it is not your job as a Federal Minister to break down the arguments of an opposition politician. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Your task, Mr. Minister, is to provide only the point of departure. to provide and request information, as was the case in the Committee. I think it's strange that you don't know that. And that's why I quote from a Presidential Protocol. Quote: ‘() In the course of parliamentary debates, the members of the Federal Government have the position to represent their place of business and thus their responsibilities and to practise a certain restraint in their speech reports." [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Point two: I find polemics to be particularly unworthy of an old philologist. The ancient Greek word “polemos” means dispute. Polemik is thus an argument in the context of political, religious, scientific, literary discussions – i.e. martial arts. It is not the task of an opposition politician, such as Mr Graf's committee, to seek consensus, but to help his arguments to break through in the rhetorical contest. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] There were many famous polemists. I'm just counting a few: Schopenhauer, Lessing, Heinrich Heine, Karl Marx, Karl Kraus, in the politics of Franz Josef Strauss, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, Kreisky. So Martin Graf is in good company. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Point three: This third accusation weighs the hardest for me. I could now say, as a Member of Parliament, that today's novel is a lazy compromise and not a mature vote. But I can also say: I find it deeply undemocratic to ignore the arguments of the opposition. Polemically, I can say: You can't play the professor here. In the noble contest of arguments I can say: Mr Minister, as a member of the government, you are responsible to us in Parliament and you have to give us a speech and an answer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Polemically, I can say: Rise Down from your high horse! But I can also say: They explore the essence of democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14209	Mrs Franz is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14230	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! We have often described the current situation at universities as unsatisfying, unfair and unsocial. There are far too many students in some subjects, so too little space. There are a large number of exam-inactive students. The number of professors per student is too low and the quality suffers. It is accused of poor study conditions and lack of planning. Austrian universities are known to be open to all EU citizens, so a new path has become necessary. What does this new university law mean? – The study conditions are to be improved. It needs a better care relationship. The final rate and the number of students active in the examination are to be increased. There is transparent funding. With this innovation of the University Law, it has succeeded in turning the funding into a new system in the long term. This is actually a milestone for universities in our country. We're creating a better one. Support relationship between students and professors and thus also have more support in the system. However, there are also limits on the number of students. Through the university billions, which our Minister of State has wisely negotiated, it is possible to finance approximately 95 additional professor posts and thus ensure the corresponding quality. In addition, there is no reduction in study places, but a significant improvement in the framework conditions. This novelle is a first step towards university funding at Austria's universities and means better and fairer study conditions, more transparent funding and thus more quality in tertiary education. That means at the same time: More opportunities for our youth too! And that's good.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14273	We'll be at our disposal for a minute and a half. Mr. Dr. Zinggl, would you like to start your speech? [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl makes a deplorable gesture.]] – Then I will interrupt the session briefly and then proceed with the urgent question. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14310	I take up the interrupted sitting again and now interrupt the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda so that the requested debate of a urgent question can take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:12:47]] Request for urgent procedure by Elisabeth Kaufmann-Bruckberger, Gerhard Köfer and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance on the suspicion of corruption in the network of ÖVP Landepolitik, the Lower Austrian asset management Fibeg, Raiffeisenlandesbanken, Hypo Banken and the Federal Agencies OeBFA and FMA (14090/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14349	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 14090/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14493	I give the floor to Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger as the first questioner to justify the urgent question. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14517	Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In fact, it is already apparent to everyone: The policy of the ÖVP can be described in three words, namely with the Friendly Economy, the Party Book Economics and the Proporz. This has not changed in the last 25 to 30 years. If one has looked at the “press hour” last Sunday, then one has definitely noticed that the head of state of Lower Austria – and I would also like to say: the real shadow chancellor of this government – has shown his true face by proving quite clearly that there is a dictatorship in Lower Austria, for the question of where the money of the Lower Austrians has remained, where the money of the Lower Austrians has been charged, as it looks out with an disclosure, or simply the question: Where is the money?, he meant quite lapidar, it's about legal standards, it's about confidentiality and he can't give any information about it. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – especially those of the ÖVP Lower Austria – this is a corrupt old policy, which has nothing more to do with democracy. The country's budgetary sovereignty lies in the country's day. And this should be noted once by the head of state of Lower Austria, but also by his councillor, the music professor, who should take note of this, especially of the two. Not even the state government has insight into the charges, he has said. That's where I have to say, quite honestly: This is then an ordinary barrage – if I may call it that way – when the country day and not even the state government have an insight into speculative financial operations. The head of state Pröll then continued to say that he would praise if the financial market supervision gave the Landtag insight. Mrs Bundesminister, I do not know exactly how to appreciate this statement, but I am wondering: There are agreements between the FMA and the country of Lower Austria not to disclose any information, no information on the land day, no information to the Lower Austrians before the 3. To leave out on March? Is there a so-called shooter aid from you? Ladies and gentlemen! In this whole thematic of the state of Lower Austria, it is not about a private gambling game. The head of state and his colleague, the Council of State for Finance, do not speculate with their own money, but they classically speculate with taxpayers' money. That is to say, the “Casino Sobotka/Pröll” was opened, and they are wasting taxpayers’ money. It must also be disclosed what happened to the commissions of 200 million. There are even up to 500 million co-imported. I'm just saying, The commissions got the banks. Whether the hypo Lower Austria is also involved, whether the Land Raiffeisen is involved, this is the case. And above all, it is also to be clarified whether there has also been a so-called kick-back financing to the ÖVP Lower Austria, because in Lower Austria, everyone is already wondering how the ÖVP is financing their election campaign. You're talking about up to 20 million. The question is: Is that tax money, too? Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the charges in Lower Austria, one hears that it is about 8 billion. Claims of 8 billion were interested, sold, and they got 4.4 billion for that. These were then transferred to the Land Niederösterreich Geschäftsverwaltung GmbH & Co OG, a daughter of the state-owned fibeg and the state-owned hypo. It is the headquarters of the "Casino Pröll/Sobotka", with the seat of Landhausplatz 1 in Sankt Pölten. But I ask you now, Mrs Federal Minister: How is it possible for a person company to make such charges? – As far as I am informed, a bank license is required, and under the Banking Act, a bank license is not granted to individual companies. That is to say, there is also a need to clarify this very legal situation. But let us come back again to the 4.4 billion, because they employ us Lower Austrians! – These have been wrongly accused, I say now, with the “unlawful” not entirely true, because of course you have to take an excursion to 2001. This is precisely the year in which not only has the decision been taken in Lower Austria to carry out financial operations but it has also abolished the purpose of promoting the housing of the countries. Since then, countries have no longer been obliged to re-establish loans for housing. I mean, this decision has begun the whole disaster. I say now that the Minister responsible at the time was more to be attributed to the ÖVP. However, since the start of this disaster, namely the indirect approval of speculations, the funds for housing construction have fallen dramatically, and Lower Austria is unfortunately a negative pioneer of God. These €4 billion were therefore charged with the approval of the federal government eleven years ago. There has been a must target of 5 percent. This has not been achieved, but an average interest rate of 2%. [[Call the ÖVP:3.2 percent!]] – To the 3.2 percent I still come. That also means that it is quite obvious that there are massive losses here. There is a number in the room, i.e. 1.8 billion, already regarded as lost; 1.8 billion €, which, as I say now, could already help the Lower Austrians, 1.8 billion, which could be used, for example, for the fight against unemployment. Every tenth Lower Austrian is unemployed, every fourth over 50 is looking for a job, and every sixth youth is also seeking work. I say now that this not only has something to do with political failure, but it is also a very classic mismanagement which has simply taken foot in the country of Lower Austria. And it really seems, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you will cover this, at least until the election day on the 3rd. March. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, I am going to be You are not asking today, I am doing this at another time, but it seems to me that you may have to ask yourself whether you are somehow wise to the head of state. But, as I said, I'm going to ask this question another time. In any case, it is regrettable that the investigations of the SOKO Cetium, i.e. St. Pölten, in the Federal Criminal Office, should be increased in personnel, but, as one reads, it should only come so far, so that this increase should take place only after the 3rd century. March. This is very unfortunate, because we actually wanted to have some information already or as soon as possible. But that also looks almost as if there was an instruction from the state captain office. Mrs. Federal Minister, you're called Fekter, maybe that's a luck, because otherwise Pröll might have had four S. For example, Pröll has only three S: S like Strasser, condemned for benevolence; S like Snowberger, accused of balance sheet fraud and infidelity; and S like Sobotka – and I say now, this too will be a case for the justice, a case for the Soko St. Pölten. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I believe that in these cases, it will soon be over with friendship. But for this, the friendly economy in the Ministry of Finance works very well. There is a lubricating scandal in the Austrian banknote and security printing industry, and the deep black Wolfgang Duchatczek then falls into disfavor, but continues his salary and in further succession probably also his OeNB-pension. You can only say that is real black friendship. Kurt Pribil, who has been at the top of the FMA since 2001 and who has been an economic adviser to Wolfgang Schüssels – a true black friendship. But why you give it to the OeNB now and order it as his successor Klaus Kumpfmüller, especially now, where it is about Enlightenment, it remains open or questionable now. I assume that Klaus Kumpfmüller, in his role as wholesale manager in the Raiffeisenlandesbank, was of course able to acquire the appropriate qualities in Upper Austria, as well as in the Hypo Oberösterreich. Or maybe it also depends on him being your former secretary. – As I said, it is classical friendly economy in the Ministry of Finance. But it's also a totally-crusted personnel policy, quite simply made by ÖVP, and I have to ask quite honestly: Why, Mrs. Federal Minister, does a fecter adlatus change to the FMA tip if independent examinations are urgently required if there is a suspicion of corruption in the ÖVP Lower Austria network? Ladies and gentlemen, I say: Debt making as a business model is the financial policy in this federal government, that is the currency. And I wonder whether this point is also contained in the coalition agreements. Mr. Klubobmann! Is that something in there? Mr. Klubobmann Cap! – Mr. Klubobmann's head doesn't listen. – I think now: Yeah, it's in the coalition agreement. In any case, the figures in Lower Austria speak a very clear language. In the last four years, i.e. in the period of your coalition, Pröll has increased the country's liability by 80 percent. Lower Austria now has liabilities of 12 billion €. The debt policy can only be described as a real disaster. €3.2 billion is allocated to private-law debt companies, with municipal debt of €3.8 billion, national debt of €5.6 billion – a heavy debt backpack of €12.6 billion for the Lower Austrians. This is a mismanagement, and no one has intervened. I also have to ask: Why did you ignore that? Why has one not done anything about this debt policy in Lower Austria? Why was not also sent to Lower Austria a so-called expert troika? In the case of Salzburg one has done this very well. I can only hope that this Lower Austrian disaster will not occur in other federal states or come to the fore, otherwise, of course, there could be a massive problem for all of us, and we would also have conditions such as in the southern countries of Greece, Spain, Portugal or in other Pleite States. I personally do not want Austria to be one of these pleite states. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Especially with this missing financial policy of the federal government, but also the state of Lower Austria, one naturally asks why the Federal Government is always kneeling before Brussels. We follow all the demands of these technocrats from the EU Moloch, and nobody says: No, we need our money now! But now I come back to the speculations in Lower Austria, because the head of state of Lower Austria says on every occasion how successful these claims are: With an average yield of 3.2 percent per year, it is better than any savings book. – I mean, actually, that sounds quite logical. However, the Court of Auditors speaks of 1.8 percent. The Finance Council speaks of 2.2 percent and the Chief of State of 3.2. That is, a short phone call between Pröll and Sobotka on the question: How many percent have we earned now?, I think that would be the minimum you could demand. But of course it would be all a business, every percentage would have been a business if you had these 4.4 billion euros in cash. But they did not have that, but they sold huge residential loans, which were outstanding, worth around €8 billion. – One can of course sell these claims, that is totally legal. But, of course, that costs something, and that is why it has also been the result of this disbursement. And there are $4.4 billion left, which you have created. If you have now paid off with 4.6 percent, as you hear, and you have achieved an annual yield of 1.8 percent according to the Court of Auditors and 3.2 percent according to the head of state – I personally believe more of the Court of Auditors – it is obvious that there has been a loss. A profit can only arise if, after the end of this time of charge, at least one plus of 8 billion, or better said, 8 billion and one cent, is there. That it will come that far, I think we all know, will not go out. And even if Mr. Landeshuppmann believes that an average interest rate of 5 per cent can be achieved at the end of the term, i.e. at the end of the 20-year term, in terms of these charges, then I must honestly say that I do not believe in the banking knowledge of the head of state in Lower Austria, because that would mean an average interest rate of 11.7 per cent per year in the next eight years, and that does not seem to me to be feasible. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In other words, that is, in short, a responsible debt-making company. The structural reforms in the financial system, which should actually be launched. You look away, you don't do anything. I say now that the course continues towards state bankruptcy. No one does anything about it, and there are no funny times on us. It has given the municipalities, but also the countries and the federal government the opportunity to outsource businesses, which are not to be taken into account in budgetary terms in order to meet the Maastricht criteria. This also means that the Austrian taxpayer is currently liable for over 3,000 holdings in Austria. One simply has to tell people that they have assumed liability. If it goes wrong, you have to pay for it. If it goes well, however, there is no profit participation in the enterprises. On the contrary, the damage to taxpayers is increasing. In addition, of course, there is still how to hear and read that there have also been communities that have even received loans to speculate on this money. That is to say, one bets on the development of currencies, one bets on the development of interest rates, and I believe that this is not the core business of the countries and of the municipalities and even not of the federal government. In reality, then, it is people – and I believe we are really the first to trust to tell them that – namely the taxpayers who carry the real risk. It's not the head of state, it's not the music professor, it's the taxpayer. This is, in our view, a irrational policy, which is a mismanagement, and that is a waste of folk property. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The waste of folk property can also be proved with a very classic example. For example, it was in the middle of the sovereign debt crisis, shortly after you recognized Austria's triple A, that is, about a year ago when the Republic of Austria received a loan of €2 billion. [[Abg. Oils: ‘State debt crisis’? Explain this to me, please!]] These 2 billions have a relatively manageable interest rate, namely 3.8 percent. The insanity is only that this bond runs over 50 years. That means, for these € 2 billion we have to pay € 4 billion alone at interest rates! – This is not a responsible policy. This will not help the next generations, the €300 billion we currently have in debt, to reduce the liabilities of around €160 billion – or you have to say quite honestly that government debt increases every year. Finally, I say: We cannot leave these debt mountains to the next generations.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14604	To answer the question, Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Fekter spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14625	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Madam President, if you say here at the speaker's desk that the course of state bankruptcy goes further, then this is so much a cocky nonsense that I strongly reject! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] [[Abg. Oils: I even understand!]] We have triple A rating agencies and are one of the few countries in Europe with Triple A. We have a stable outlook at an AA1 agency. So all of Europe looks at us as we do, because we are more successful than everyone else around us. Take note of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ: You said that to Greece too!]] Two weeks ago, in the Ministry of Finance, we signed a state agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder, the Municipal Government and the Municipal Government, and all agreed that speculation must end with tax money. Everyone has worked cooperatively to anchor the principles and that there will be no speculations in the future. That's a big concern to me, too. We have worked quickly on Christmas holidays: first, a federal law prepared for the more stringent conditions, second, this state treaty prepared with the countries and municipalities, third, a constitutional provision, a state regulation legislately formulated and presented to the House. Fourthly, I have given an indication that OeBFA is controlling its contracts with the countries more strictly. Since then several negotiations have also taken place in this House with the opposition, and I thank you for the very constructive mood that has prevailed there to come to a solution. I am also convinced that further negotiations will lead to a solution. We have acted quickly and in terms of content, I believe, we have achieved good results over long distances. This state contract, that's the heart of it. We have defined uniformly and comprehensively what will no longer be possible in the future. At the same time, we have then added the Constitutional Provision to the principles already laid down in the Article 15a Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This has made it clear to all parties that events, as they did in Salzburg, or after the turbulences in some cities such as Linz and St. Pölten, will no longer happen in the future and that we will proceed differently. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Please have a minimum degree of objectivity!]] With regard to the use of tax money, it is necessary not to use it to speculate on the financial markets. And you can't even make debts to speculate. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! All the federal states – including Salzburg, but also Lower Austria, Vienna, of course Vorarlberg, Tyrol and Upper Austria – have come to know that new principles relating to the ban on speculation have been developed. The first principle covers all types of risk. It is an error to believe that it is only about foreign currency risks or only about interest rate risks – the interest rates were different ten years ago than they are today – it is also about the liquidity risk, the credit risk, the market risk, the operational risk. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, all risks must be avoided by the public authorities, and there must not be negligently a risk taken in order to make a basket money. That should not be possible in the future. The second principle is greater transparency. There must be reports to the respective decision-makers, to the Landdays, to the municipal councils, to the National Council, to the Statistics Austria, but also to the Public Debt Committee. And, ladies and gentlemen, this transparency also includes a uniform accounting system so that comparability can be made. It is no longer justified, even in modern times, that one simply does not make certain things public with the camera music, for example, as happens in Salzburg, in active financial management. It's no longer contemporary. Thank God Salzburg has already declared itself ready to take over the new accounting system, as the covenant knows. Third, we need strategic planning and reports on this. One cannot “hole up to” financial transactions or, depending on how the stock market is moving, take up debt and then puke. That belongs to the past. A transparent liquidity management shall be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, now on the fourth principle. – When speculating, one must introduce a four-eye, a six-eye principle in order to exclude clear incompatibilities in order to prevent abuse. This also includes the separation in human and organisational terms of those who make the financial decisions, and those who take up the loans, and then also from those who then carry out the accounting. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we have negotiated these principles in detail, enshrined in an Article 15a agreement and provided with a sanctions mechanism, in line with the stability pact that the countries already have. In the future, all avoidable risks are to be excluded in financing and in the event of risks, they must be minimized or mitigated. It is also prohibited – and this is to be written in the Constitution – to carry out speculations with debt. There is also consensus among the political groups. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is part of the serious work with public money that debt must first be reduced, and then, if there is still money, this risk-minimizing and overall conservative investment. What has been a standard for the Federal Government for years, thanks to the ban on speculation, in the various terms – namely in the state treaty, in the law on business with OeBFA, in the constitutional provisions, in the empowerment that we also have the communities on board – in the future also applies to all areas, including the distributed areas, including those companies that belong to the public sector and which are to be expected to be part of the State sector. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am confident that this speculation ban can be adopted here in the House after further negotiations at the next plenary session and that Parliament too will ratify the 15a agreement. Because it is only after Parliament and all the days of the country have ratified this State Treaty that the countries can re-acquire money at OeBFA. The discussions held here in the House between the clubs will certainly lead to a consensus. I think the consensus that we don't want speculation is noticeable; the way there has not ended, we still need some time. [[Abg. Oellinger: But there you were already more optimistic!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler:... Stones in the way to throw heads of state...!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! All the contracting parties involved in these agreements have proved that they are acting responsibly. They have taken the right steps together. The countries were very cooperative and quickly reached a consensus. And even if there were only election plots to be heard here today: Niederösterreich was also cooperative and signed the 15a agreement. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, and now to answer the questions raised to me. Questions 1 to 10 According to § 1 para. 1 [[Abg. Grosz: Yes!]] Financial Market Supervisory Act is the Financial Market Supervisory Authority an independent and non-profit-making authority. The Federal Minister for Finance does not have any executive powers in the operational banking supervision itself, nor any instructions or other enforcement powers. The role of the Ministry of Finance is limited in the supervisory system to the supervision of the FMA and not to the control carried out by the FMA. This does not allow the BMF to have information on specific cases, nor does it have access to the comprehensive supervisory data of the National Bank and FMA. The information law of § 16 Financial Market Supervisory Act can only be exercised by the Federal Ministry of Finance in the event of justified doubts as to the legality of the supervisory activity of the FMA. As financial market supervision was active on its own initiative with regard to the special investment funds established for the country of Lower Austria and has also reviewed them accordingly and periodically, there was no reason for the Federal Ministry of Finance to take action pursuant to § 16 FMABG. Questions 11 and 12: According to § 5 Financial Market Supervisory Act, the Board of Directors of the FMA consists of two members appointed by the Federal Government on a proposal from the Federal Government, with the Federal Minister for Finance and the Austrian National Bank subject to the nominations for each member of the Executive Board to be ordered. Due to the termination of the term of office of the Board member Mag. Helmut Ettl and the deposit of the Board of Directors of Dr. Kurt Pribil in view of his appointment as a member of the Board of Directors of the Austrian National Bank, both Executive Board functions were publicly and in accordance with objective criteria in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Law on Transparency in the appointment of the State-based company, the so-called Employment Act. The applications received were subject to an examination by an independent independent assessment committee consisting of representatives of the OeNB and the BMF, based on the objective criteria laid down. May. Klaus Kumpfmüller and Mag. Helmut Ettl was found to be the best and to the highest extent suited by all candidates. [[Abg. May. Kogler: such a surprise!]] The assessment committee has power due to the respective statutory nomination rights. Klaus Kumpfmüller himself as Minister of Finance and Power. Helmut Ettl proposed to the Executive Board of the Austrian National Bank for appointment. The Federal Government took part in the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 12 February. In February 2013, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany decided to propose to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mag. Klaus Kumpfmüller and Mag. Helmut Ettl as members of the Board of Management of the FMA. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with the respective decrees of appointment of 14. In February 2013, the two gentlemen mentioned were appointed members of the FMA's Board of Directors for a term of five years each. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14783	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e14817	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! You could actually say it with these words: Where pröll insists, there are waste of money and debt in it! Let's go back a little bit in parliamentary history, there's been a lot of happening in the last four years, and let's remember: Once upon a time, there was a Finance Minister and Deputy Chancellor Josef Pröll, who has always spoken about it – after he has shifted our hard-earned tax money to Greece and to the banks – that you are doing a wonderful, good business. How good this business was or is, we now all know, if we know – and you have confirmed this, Mrs Finanzminister – that Greece will no longer return this loaned money. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Who says that? You know that?]] – So this business is going into pants, we know that. And if you see how the financial situation in Europe is, you don't have to be a prophet to say here that we'll never see anything from the money again. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I'm going to the other party, and I'm going to Erwin Pröll. He's wasting the housing funds and the tax billions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The colleague Kaufmann-Bruckberger has already said a few things before, as is true in Lower Austria. [[the speaker is hesitant]] [[Cheerfulness at FPÖ and BZÖ]] I would, however, like to add a few things to this with a few numbers. [[Abg. Grosz: I'd say sit down!]] According to a report, the Federal Ministry of Finance notes that €3.2 billion has already been parked in debt companies in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Grosz: This is the first emergency of the Stronach team, a stutter!]] The municipal debt is reported in Lower Austria with €3.8 billion and the national debt of €5.6 billion. [[Abg. Grosz: That's where Stronach speaks even better!]] If you count this together, then we are at 12.6 billion euros in debt in Lower Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, these are facts and figures, which are to be clearly explained here, that you should repay failed debts and not draw up money. Mrs Minister, you mentioned the Article 15a agreement on speculation earlier. . We had a brief debate today in the early days, but you heard yesterday the criticism of the Court of Auditors on this matter, namely that there is still a lot of things open here and that there is a need to negotiate with the countries here. And we all know who's on the brake: This is once again the dear Erwin Pröll, who does not want to be looked into the cards here again. And as the figures prove, if you look at the debt of Lower Austria, he has every reason to do so. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's where Stronach speaks even better German!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to return to something that you have explained well in the past, namely why you have employed Mr Kumpfmüller at the FMA. It's interesting to see how this flying change worked. Mr. Kumpfmüller was formerly a member of the former Secretary of State Maria Fekter at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. [[Abg. Krainer: When was that? 20 years ago?]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: 23 years ago, and he was...!]] He was then employed with the HYPO Upper Austria, with the Raiffeisenlandesbank Oberösterreich. [[Abg. Krainer: How long was he working 23 years ago?]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: One and a half years!]] – Yes, then it is strange that right now, where the hat is burning in Lower Austria, this top is being replaced in the supervision of the financial market and, in my opinion, quite clearly a not entirely unpolitical occupation has taken place. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Just your opinion!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Debt where you look – not only in Lower Austria. I might want to talk to some other things. Let us look at this: “70 percent of the congregations in the Minus. ” [[The speaker shall keep an expression of a newspaper article up to date]] - That's not what I invented. 70 percent of the municipalities are highly indebted. [[Abg. Grosz: Tell us something from Vorarlberg!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. List.]] This begins in the Styria, Bad Radkersburg; if we then look further, there is the Tyrolean municipality Gramais with 34 000 € per capita debt. I would like to mention Vorarlberg, who is always very much stressed that the country does not actually make debts and the country has no debt. There they are turned on to the communities! That's the trick of having a balanced budget. There the municipalities are extremely indebted. Let's take a look at this: The largest city with 50,000 inhabitants in Vorarlberg, Dornbirn, is at the top of the cities all over the country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Dornbirn: Per capita debt €2 777, then followed by Linz, St. Pölten, Graz, Eisenstadt. ==References== Place is Bregenz – again a Vorarlberger municipality – and so it moves away. [[Abg. Grosz: Say yes: From Vorarlberg’s point of view!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Where is Vienna?]] And if we continue to look at the municipalities with the highest per capita debt, then we have Warth in Vorarlberg with 16 285 € in third place with the municipalities, Schröcken in Vorarlberg is with 14 793 € per head debt in fourth place, and at ninth place, and thus also at the top ten, lies Bürserberg with 9 351 €. – Only that you see, these are black communities, these are black federal states that are at the forefront of debt making. [[Abg. Grosz: And what does this have to do with Lower Austria?]] [[Abg. Grosz: Oh, that's it!]] You also have to mention this, if you look at Lower Austria, how the debt is outsourced with financial tricks – this is parked somewhere. But there you have to be able to look at your fingers. And that was the big problem yesterday in the negotiations: that the communities have been left out here once again – Mr Kogler will certainly confirm this to me – that this speculation ban has not been put on the agenda today. [[Abg. Grosz: Could you turn on the red lamp now?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] And I would like to mention something here when we look at the residential trees in Lower Austria: Some federal states, such as Carinthia and Lower Austria, have also sold mortgage-secured housing loans, but while Carinthia has used these revenues for debt eradication, it has invested Lower Austria in securities again, so it has been shocked again, ladies and gentlemen. That is what it looks like, but it must not be said in this Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] At the end of the day, I may also want to inform people on TV screens so that they can know how this works in the communities. In fact, there is also the debt: There you form some cooperatives – community cooperatives or community companies – that then take over the debts. There you can press schools and everything you can into a community building society, where the debt is outsourced, so that they are not budget-relevant. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] These tricks are used again and again, and there, I think, is a bar advanced! It would be necessary to make it clear here that the laws are in line with the fact that, at the end of the day, the taxpayers are not the painters of the lacquered and are allowed to do away with everything.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e15150	Mr Sacher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e15171	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! You can become wise from experience – or not. The SPÖ in Lower Austria has learned from the experiences, others unfortunately do not do so to this day. I want to bring a chronology of events, because I was there at the time. ==References== In June 2001, the Lower Austrian Landtag, with the votes of ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ, took up 64.7 billion schilling in terms of the recovery of claims from housing promotion, which is about € 8.8 billion. The proceeds from this exploitation, 35.4 billion schilling or today 4.4 billion €, was invested in charges. At the time, the mandate of the Landtage was a safe obligation to obtain additional income for the Land of Lower Austria, while at the same time ensuring the promotion of housing and, at the same time, without any disadvantages for the residential lenders in Lower Austria. Above all, however, the intention was not to make a risky, risky presumption, but rather to make a mouth-proof, so-called conservative statement: a safe splitting of the funds. In his decision at that time, the Lower Austrian Landtag was admittedly something too trusting. There was no absolute majority at the time, and under these conditions the entire care for the accusation was left to the competent Council of State Sobotka. Unfortunately, the Landtag did not secure any influence on the operating business. I remember that this was not only criticised by us Social Democrats in the club at the time, but I also know that the then housing officer Lese Prokop was very, very skeptical about this process. She obviously saw herself in the ÖVP club opposite the Schriffmacher Schneeberger and did not prevail against him. I'll get it to the point: As a result, a very specific intrusive and peculiar structure has developed. At that time I called this “Kingdom Sobotka in Pröll” in the Landtag, and I even received a condolences from Mr. Landesführer – which somehow irritates me today. I ask myself the question today: Is this Kingdom of Sobotka, this completely intruding strategy, which, in the meantime, has been so powerfully active as to escape? On the basis of the operation of Sobotka State Council, a variety of national special companies were constructed, whose bodies, under the sole responsibility of Sobotka, took the most risky division of the estimated capital. And in it lies the Krux: This high risk has been demonstrated and strongly criticized by us since the first day. In it is the miser, ladies and gentlemen. I refer to our then arguments in the Landtag, for which I was always strongly criticized by the ÖVP as a clubman – and also my successor Weninger. In retrospect, I have to see how correct these arguments have been. At the moment, we know that 8 billion have become 3 billion. If it is now argued that there would have been an advisory board, then I can only say that it had only a so-called consultative function. It'd be said today that he was cruddling. This is also an example of the lack of democratic understanding of the EIAs, which, with their absolute majority, has then reached it, since everything has gone over it and has not addressed the arguments of the other parties. At the time we had a legal opinion prepared by Professor Öhlinger – that was in February 2003 – and I now quote from this report by Öhlinger: "Making money or speculating with it is undoubtedly not a public task and therefore no task of the state." There must be ‘specific factual reasons for this’; a hoped-for profit is not an objective reason for such activities. In addition, Öhlinger also clearly stated that the principle of sparingness constitutes a reluctance to act. That is, one must see itself committed to a risk prevention, conservative investment behaviour. And finally, the core of his statement: ‘However, in any case, it is very doubtful to try to use the proceeds of the sale of these claims for profit speculation on the capital market without sufficiently securing itself against a loss of substance.’ Ladies and gentlemen! This loss of substance is well over 1 billion today, and sobotka is the sole responsibility of the national government councillor.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e15205	Mr Dr. Stummvoll is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e15226	Madam President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The APA made an issue today at 12.15 p.m. on this urgent request. It began with the words: A premiere is being held in Parliament today. Four days before the country election, the Stronach team “pays such close attention to itself for the first time. ” [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] This is all about the motive of today's urgent, ladies and gentlemen. But I understand, of course: If you have a top candidate who, although buttering millions into advertising, butters in ads, but at the same time says: I don't want to work afterwards, I don't go to the country day afterwards!, then you have a problem. [[Intercom with the Stronach team and the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] ==References====External links== March in his private jet flies back to Canada, it says: Cana there! – This is certainly a problem, but this is not the only problem of the Stronach team, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I just read in the “NO”: The Stronach team has obviously set itself up with all the artists in Lower Austria, because it has raised the accusation that the People's Committee, the artists in Lower Austria who are for Erwin Pröll, has been pressured by Erwin Pröll to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] With a petition, these artists have now drawn attention to what is a nonsense, and Erwin Steinhauer has made a beautiful statement. He said to this action by Clubobmann Lugar from the Stronach team: “Blessed isn’t going!” – [[Abg. Mr Petzner: Madam President!]] However, he said that before he learned about today's urgent question, ladies and gentlemen. That's what he said before: “Blodder is not going!” Now on the content – as far as you can say something at all – first on the question of Hypo Lower Austria: Ladies and gentlemen! The Hypo Lower Austria – that is not a question at all – is exposed to the accusation of the public prosecutor that the principle of balance sheet truth has not been complied with. Hypo is an AG, there are responsible organs. This is being examined and is currently the subject of justice. That is why a committee of inquiry in the Landtag has not only rejected the absolute majority of the ÖVP, it has also said the FPÖ, Klubobmann Waldhäusl: This is now a matter of justice; we are against an investigation committee because the judicial system should first clarify the whole. After that, we can consider whether there is still a political question. That's a very clear situation, please. In this bank, in this company, there are organs – we all know the stock law – that these organs have to deal with it. [[Abg. Krainer: Can you call from the history of the Second Republic a committee of inquiry which was following a court procedure?]] The second is, ladies and gentlemen: You have to distinguish a little. When you hear “hypo”, you think of the hypo carinthia – you think of the hypo carinthia. When you talk about banks, you think of the municipal credit, of the people's banks. The difference is that the hypo Lower Austria, ladies and gentlemen, has not used a single tax euro until now, but has earned a total of €105 million to the taxpayer in Lower Austria over the last ten years. This is a small difference to the other banks mentioned, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Krainer: Did you count the punishments now? Did you count the penalty payments?]] With regard to the investment strategy: We have all heard this a hundred times, ladies and gentlemen, and the Court of Auditors has examined this five times. The Court of Auditors shall, in its final report of 6. In December of the previous year, Niederösterreich worked very closely with him. Of 16 recommendations, the country has implemented 15. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] One could not be implemented because the circumstances had changed in the meantime. The Court of Auditors writes on page 180 – I have looked at it carefully, please read: Court of Auditors Report, 6. December 2012, page 180 –: [[New call for tender Königsberger-Ludwig]] It's not about a loss, it's about a lower yield. - That's undisputed. Projected, expectation was 5 percent return, but in the last ten years there have been only 3.2 – a reduction in yield, says the Court of Auditors; no loss, a reduction in yield. [[Call the Greens: This is incredible!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's what you're doing here. You know better yourself!]] The Court of Auditors writes on page 177 – read it! – by October 2011 a positive balance of € 408 million had been reached. [[Call the Greens.]] Meanwhile, the positive balance is 824 because further profits have been made in the meantime. – Please, let’s stop talking about losses! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Read the report of 6. December: a lower yield, but no loss – there is a small difference, ladies and gentlemen! When you look at the numbers – I have said it many times – you can see the following: The starting point was that it was estimated that 4.4 billion – read the Court of Auditors report ; [[Abg. Krainer: No! 8 billion is the starting amount!]] [[Call the Greens: 8 billion!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] Read the Court of Auditors' Report, please! – from which 1.9 billion were collected in order to be able to realize the social model of Lower Austria. That is, after Adam giant there are 2.5 billion left, but there are 3.3 billion, that is, there is a surplus of 824 million. This is to be read in the Court of Auditors' report, ladies and gentlemen. [[New call of the abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] And as for the debt of Lower Austria: I think it is generally accepted by us, at least in the Committee on Budgets – go S’, stop your calls, Mr colleague! [[Abg. Krainer: Mr Colleague stupidly, where do the facts remain?]] Read the Court's report! [[Abg. Krainer: Facts! Facts! Facts!]] – You do not want to take note of the facts. You also belong to those who have your party friends only one goal on 3rd. March: the absolute majority of Erwin Pröll is to be broken. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tadler.]] Everything else doesn't matter to you. There is no concept of the future, the only goal is to break the absolute majority. Mr Krainer, check this out. [[Abg. Krainer: Facts!]] And I know you long enough: The louder your calls, the weaker your arguments, Mr Krainer, I have known from years of experience. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Oh-noise at the SPÖ]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Sacher and Mr Krainer.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Everyone who knows me knows I'm very careful with forecasts. I'm afraid of a prognosis today, which is the third. In the case of March, the Council adopted a decision on the proposal for a Council Directive on the I dare to predict that voters in Lower Austria are smarter than some here believe, and that their great desire to have clear conditions in Lower Austria will be fulfilled in the future. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: I think so too!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e15508	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e15529	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Pröll, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, would indeed have had his joy if he had listened to you now, but wrongful things do not become more true, even if he has been repeated so often! [[Complementary by members of FPÖ and SPÖ.]] Mrs Finanzminister, if you had listened to your comments earlier in reply to the question, then you could have believed that we have decided today the greatest ban on speculation all the time; unfortunately, we have not even managed to put it on the agenda. Why we have not managed this is, I believe, obvious to all: because there is a powerful head of state in Lower Austria, who has used all his power and influence to ensure that this ban on speculation does not come – but not so much, because it does not hide what he has done negatively with the speculations with the housing funds in Lower Austria, but because he probably does not want to see him again in the maps. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] There may be something else in the arrogance, which is not supposed to reach the public – and not even before the country election in the coming days in Lower Austria. A speculation case in Lower Austria, a negative illustration of how to avoid dealing with money – with public money, with taxpayers’ money – shows us once again this urgent request. It is actually unique, I would say, and in many ways. On the one hand, it's a speculation scandal; I've already done that. Casino Erwin Pröll – as it has been called several times today – is truly justifiable to his name, doing all his honor, and one thing is clear: It is not a question of trying easily and carelessly to achieve better returns for the country of Lower Austria or of trying to achieve better interest rates on the financial markets. – No, this is a perfide, a discounted collection of tax funds, of housing funds, with a criminal background where veiling mechanisms have been used, as we know them from criminal structures. As complicated company associations were created, false information was deliberately spread on the market and in politics, there were also camouflaged money acquisitions carried out, and then an attempt was made through an outsourced company to lubricate money. Unfortunately, this has gone wrong, we know. – The Court of Auditors has also presented a clear report. You can try to speak this up, Mr President, but you will not succeed because the data, the figures and the facts speak a clear language. It is therefore necessary to work out this present criminal case – and it is a criminal case, that is certain. Those responsible – and those who are, that is also clear; these are the heads of state Pröll and his responsibilities, who have acted responsibly – are clearly to be taken into account, that is to be worked out. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Ober-Croupiers!]] Investigations on the part of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but also on the supervision of the financial market, have already begun, as I have heard. That's where it's up to you to make a clean table. It is not only the responsibility, but also the actual level of losses that have been incurred, because that is still not quite clear. There are divergent statements, and until now it has not been possible to take into account the documents, at least not from an independent political side; this too will become interesting. This covers again with the events of the morning – keyword: do not put on the agenda the ban on speculation, even if it fulfils all the parameters as the Federal Minister told us, and even if there is a broad consensus here. Unfortunately, it is not a political will, because clear signs have been made from Lower Austria. And, of course, we have to answer when the facts are on the table and take on a clear responsibility. What is true of the little man, which applies to every Lower Austrian and every Lower Austrian, is also true of Erwin Pröll. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If there are criminal machinations, then he has clearly to be held responsible in court, and if it has to be, or if it corresponds to the extent of the machinations, then he has to draw the consequences and withdraw. - That's how it looks! However, there is also another component to be assessed here, namely the moral image, the political moral image behind it: a political power relationship, designed by a Pröll-ÖVP, which exploits unbridled and unrestrained possibilities of the application of power that it has available to it and which, in dealing with law and law, is probably rather oblivious and very salopp in its day-to-day business. How great is the contradiction between what is meant by the simple citizen, the simple Lower Austrians and the Lower Austrians, and the power of the Pröll-ÖVP, as if by the political side, is most likely to be most evident when one looks at how security conditions in Lower Austria look and with which It has to be done at the political level. There is a head of state who, while constantly saying that he loves and is expensive in Lower Austria and that he supports police and executives as far as possible, but reality is another. There is an obvious lack of personnel in the executive in Lower Austria. There are about 500 personnel missing. There are isolated departments which, if the labour inspectorate had to say something, would have to be closed from today to tomorrow, because working conditions are under any legal framework. And there are shortcomings in equipment, both in the logistics sector and in the equipment sector, as well as in safety. [[Abg. Krainer: What does this have to do with the topic now? I don't understand the connection now!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] I can remember: Since the sad incident in Hirtenberg, a year has passed since then; at that time, the head of state Pröll – but also the Federal Minister Fekter – has promised that every official is assigned a personal vest of protection. So far, this has not yet been done. [[Abg. Krainer: Stay with the thing!]] This is a unique criminal case – colleague Krainer, be careful! – which needs to be clarified and, at least, politically prepared. In contrast to other similar political cases, there is no reprocessing. Salzburg has already been addressed, as there are these political consequences already, as a committee of inquiry is being set up, there is political reprocessing. This has not happened in Lower Austria until now – probably also for the reasons I have already mentioned: that one may be afraid that things are happening, which one would rather keep under the ceiling – to express it salopp. I believe that there is not only an blatant need for information, but I can also make up a political need for change. I am therefore good to see that on the next Sunday we will be able to bring about, with the support of the Lower Austrians and Lower Austrians, those changes which, among other things, mean a shift into power relations – from an absoluteist, despotic majority party brand Pröll-ÖVP to democratic conditions in the sense of co-determination, as well as other political forces. We may then be able to open the political wall, which is being made by the Pröll-ÖVP, and perhaps then we can finalise this criminal case, namely this charge of housing funds, and bring it to justice as well as political clarification. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e15624	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e15646	Madam President. Something else can be done from the urgent one. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] We will go further into the Lower Austria scandal – even if we have already done this a few times – because what Mr. Stumblingly listed here against better knowledge is nevertheless correct – for the protocol – but later on. First of all, on urgent matters and questions 1 to 10, relating to financial market supervision: The Minister has, as I believe, answered correctly as regards her supervisory right to the FMA that she cannot rule there; only if she herself suspects that something is wrong. We've done this before. But now to the memory and level of the political debate in Lower Austria, set up by, by the way, a head of state who continues inside here, along with the low level: Pröll said in the so-called elephant round last Sunday on TV in front of running cameras – please look! –: The opposition, in particular and before Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, should not be so upset! – He has thought of the same Holler, as Mr Stumpfully said, that something remains at the end of the day. But when Pröll was so far in the defensive, he took out and meant: They should not be upset!, and Mrs Petrovic “invited” – under quotation marks – to go to “their” – again under quotation marks – FMA and finally to look at it, since she has already tested everything. It's all so great in Lower Austria. – Quote of the head of state a few days ago. Yes, we have to do with such a head of state there! This is, of course, a nonsense from the front to the back. Mrs Petrovic has actually done this and, by the way, has sent a letter to the FMA and said, now they are to find out all the data that has affected the review of these four funds in Lower Austria. Of course, the FMA says to lead this evidence. [[The microphone's running out.]] [[Abg. Krainer: This is the microphone at the left shoulder!]] [[Abg. Haubner: There's even the microphone!]] I believe that this is the secret connection of the country of Lower Austria here to the Parliament, and we have now removed it. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with greens, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] But it remains, the question is perfectly clear. They've taken over 8 billion, they've been there once. For this they have got four – you have to get it. What kind of hope you've invested in. I am delighted when the SPÖ says to justify itself for what happened at the time that the Landtag decision has been aimed at making the money almost mouth-proof. Yes, with oral certainty, you would never have picked up the difference from 8 to 4 billion. It was already clear and clear that it can only be about “businesses” – under quotation marks – which, as it were, should promise a high yield. And of course that's risky, after what else. But you just managed to lower from 8 – that was the start – to 4.4 billion. You had to pick that up. Of course, that was never the case. And even this delicate surplus yield, which you are now talking about, is nothing but the description of the giant hole that remains, because only a small part has been picked up. You can expect that now in interest. They should have reached almost 5 percent interest, but only reached 2 to 3 according to the view. So that's a huge difference, and that's what's going on in billions. Or we can make the invoice different and ask how this is to be done, that with the expiry of the refund data for the housing loans That would have been the alternative, namely, to do nothing simply and grippingly not to do what it is. Then, in a few years, all 8 billion would have come back slowly. It's impossible for you to catch up with the 3 billion and anything else in there. And here we have already subtracted what you have taken out – kindness for the sake of kindness. How's that supposed to go? These would have been even the biggest soccer shops ever organized in the Republic, if one believed that one now comes from a little over 3 billion to the 8 again. Is that your approach? But that's what the head of state tells you that this might be the end, just as he tells the other nonsense – I ask you to drive it out; he has an office in this Republic anyway – that you can go to the FMA and just see all the data. That's not just cockbucks, that's the white provocation. That should be rejected, even here in the house. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] The model Niederösterreich now without figures is very well described: first, housing promotions and loans knock out, then fade, then hide, then cover up, when everything is already running up, and finally move – namely, to move responsibility. Meanwhile, only those of the hypo that were forced into the subsidiary to hide these stories are sitting on the dock. But in fact – and I am telling you that in all conviction – the black half of the Lower Austrian government bank belongs to the indictment bank. And we'll make sure it gets that far. It would have been a committee of inquiry in Lower Austria, as it had been in Salzburg. We can also see how urgently it would be necessary for the Committees of Inquiry and their establishment to become a minority right throughout Austria, because it is always the opposition parties that are a little bit further here. [[Congratulations on Greens, FPÖ and Team Stronach]] That's in the nature of the thing. That's quite obvious. But no, in Lower Austria this will take even longer, even if you hope for any election results. Should be. The choice should go as it pleases, but we will continue to try to clarify the matter. And that's what we're gonna do. And we will be able to read all of this in just a few months, if we continue in the search, if the pressure is getting even bigger, not only what you've done here for nonsense, but also what you should have known for a long time, what's going on and what you should have done. But you continue to make the wall and argue as follows: At the House of Lower Austria, which is so wonderfully ordered, you have come up with your wealth and financial responsibility, once from two floors burned the first and heated down, simply so, yes, from the 8 to the 4 billion. Then you took off a little bit more, a few rows of bricks, because they needed them again to knock. Then you put a brick row on it again, that's the famous win of stupid. And then tell us all here: Don't get upset! It's burnt down the hut, but we've set up a brick series again. - And we're supposed to get hurt at that. And to this nonsense you're telling us here, you're also going to put the Court of Auditors – I can't say it otherwise – into the dirt, even though you should know better. The Court of Auditors, who did not deserve this and who is also an institution of this House, which you have to put right now, says in the same report you are talking about, and worse yet, in the actual report – because that was only a follow-up report you mention there, and that was already the 2010 stand of 2008, since everything has only got worse, you know it anyway – stoned and clear: It's a one-billion error! – right along this cascade, as I explained to you. Now you're not going here and, because there's some of these funds left a little bit, that's going to turn the whole thing into a business. That's unbearable what you're doing. But you may be allowed to do so because all of them are talking about any country elections. Taking it seriously is not. But to take seriously will be if we continue to put the facts on the table and when it comes to the ministry, even by representatives of the ÖVP, it is really to be proved that you are doing the wall here until the end, and that is against better knowledge. And that is the reason. And this is for the time being the last part of the tragedy. But we may still be bending it where it belongs. This is also a crucial reason why a real ban on speculation cannot and should not come, because then we would suddenly be on top of it if it were a very strict one, that speculation in Lower Austria should be banned in the future and that this would mean a charge as to the previous steps in that country. That is why the so-called speculation ban has already been holes through. Lower Austria would be possible with what should have been decided today, yes. But that's too much for you. It can't be anything at all now. And with this attitude that you continue to defend the head of state of Lower Austria and this kind of speculation, which is annoyed and worse than those in Salzburg – of course that is true! – is also fully explained why the ÖVP torpedes in particular any reasonable speculation ban. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: That's not true!]] But we will not let that happen to you either. We will restart the negotiations, and hopefully we will do something. It must be possible in this country to organise a reason beyond the ÖVP. There she is no longer to be found.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e15747	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e15768	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Rarely did the premiere go as wrong in a urgent request as that of the Stronach team. I would point out that we only discussed this Causa a week ago on the basis of a urgent request from the Greens, which was substantially better, more fundamental and also more accurate than this chaotic urgent request today from the Stronach team. I should also like to point out that it was the BZÖ, which, through an advertisement in 2009 by Mr Petzner and Mr Stadler, only triggered the investigations in the Causa Hypo Lower Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's supposed to show, ladies and gentlemen, that BZÖ's left. We will continue to fight for information here. The Stronach team has proven itself today that this urgent request is entirely for the fish. That is why there is no longer any reference to this urgent request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e15809	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e15830	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! Yes, speculation is a very, very serious and important topic for us. And the speculations with public funds, tax money, with housing funds are with people in our country and especially in the federal state of Lower Austria in all the mouths, yes, the big topic bad. Already at the last plenary session, residential speculation in Lower Austria was a very important topic. And I would remind you, Mrs Schittenhelm, on this issue, that in these speculations a profit of €800 million has been achieved. A profit has a positive sign in our cost bill. However, when you look at the Court of Auditors' statements, you can see that losses have been incurred in these housing speculations. However, losses have a negative sign in our eyes, Mrs Schittenhelm. These losses have been, as has already been said, most recently in the Court of Auditors' report of 5. EUR 1 billion was written and confirmed on 1 December 2012; and if One can follow the comments of the colleague Kaufmann-Bruckberger, so they have raised to €1.8 billion. However, the final report of the Court of Auditors in 2010 also showed losses in the payment of housing subsidies of a billion euros. 1 billion € is a lot of money that could have been used better for investment, for example investment in 7 000 cooperatives with a size of about 65 square meters, and about 3,000 single-family houses could be built with it. Each of the 573 municipalities in Lower Austria could be granted a subsidy of approximately €1.7 million for a future investment. And all companies in Lower Austria – according to Statistics Austria, about 26 000 in 2009 – could have been granted support for job-reliance measures, about €38 000 for job-reliance measures. While an investigation committee has been set up in Salzburg for information purposes, in Lower Austria in the Landtag, the Pröll-ÖVP prevented the establishment of such an investigation committee by its absolute majority. The Lower Austrians too, I believe, have the right to know exactly about the use of their taxpayers. I think you have the right to receive information and information from independent experts about what happened to their housing funds, how much money has actually been put into speculation, how much of this money spent is still available, how interest income is calculated in euro and, above all, what will happen to this speculation money in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The people in Lower Austria have the right to obtain detailed information, as our SPÖ head of state, Dr. Sepp Leitner, has already requested from the government. A knowledge from these speculations is now certain that speculations with public funds, with taxpayers' money, will have to be banned in the future. Housing funds, ladies and gentlemen, are intended to serve housing, to be provided to housing, to serve the people in Lower Austria, and not to the speculators and speculations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e15891	Mrs Schittenhelm is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e15913	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Petzner has already said that last week, during the emergency session, this Causa was also debated. Today she was made the theme with a urgent by the Stronach team. I would like to say a warm thank you to our Federal Minister for the comprehensive answer to the questions that have been raised here. Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger, I would advise you to read the Court of Auditors reports. She is also a member of the committee, but she has already weakened the first committee meeting, and she has shone away. It was interesting: She then, as long-term members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, said in a press release that the Court of Auditors was in fact uninteresting and that the decisions were not interested in them either. . So much for the appointment of a member of the Court of Auditors and, in general, of a Member of Parliament here in the House. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this urgent request there is a choice of words, which lets you shudder a little, namely: Corruption, Pröll’s debt policy, organised debt companies, speculations, banking license and so on and so on. I have rarely read or heard such a collection of insults. To this end, I can say: Who is that party talking about truth, transparency and fairness, putting these values in place, but doing something else? Who do we have to do with? In 2001, we've been looking into it. It has been a few years since now, even though this has not been so long ago. We are just a few days before the country election in Lower Austria. And there is now a Mr. Stronach and his purchased candidates who are going through the country. [[Oh-noise of the Abg. Tadler]] It is! That doesn't matter, it's not bad. [[Further calls to the Stronach team.]] This means that there is actually someone talking about Lower Austria who evaluates the Lower Austrians without knowing the country and the citizens. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that many citizens from Lower Austria now listen and watch. Then: In his ads and statements, Mr Stronach clearly states that the Federal State of Lower Austria is a soup. Stronach explains that nothing would work in this country. This man explains that the benefits that have been provided are worthless. Stronach explains that Lower Austria is a dictatorship. Stronach explains that Lower Austria is a war scene. And I say, This man, Stronach, doesn't know what he's talking about, and he doesn't know what he's doing! Lower Austria is a free and democratic country, and there is no dictatorship there. We are happy to send Stronach and his team to North Korea. And Lower Austria is not a war scene either, thank God, because that has been over since the end of World War II. But he's probably not quite aware of that. But no wonder he's not in the country either, and in Austria he hasn't really found his place either. Stronach insults all our countrymen, not only in Lower Austria, but all over the country. The political groups should also consider how we deal with this. Stronach accuses all those who in recent years and decades have specifically built this our Lower Austria, who have built up work with their hands in this country that has done a lot in the families, in the farms in which agriculture has brought in yours. I didn't see anything from Mr Stronach. He left only construction sites – no matter where we look. Since he's been in the country, he's left construction sites. I don't know if that's such a good witness. However, we are talking about a region, the state of Lower Austria, which has developed into an economically successful federal state. Ladies and gentlemen, 600 000 unemployed people – this is a huge number of women and men in employment. That's not about it! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Lower Austria is a federal country that has acquired in science and research – with the specialized universities, with the elite university in Klosterneuburg, with the MedAustron, the state-of-the-art European cancer research center that we have built. He can't know! Stronach doesn't know where it is, and he doesn't care! Of course, there is also an extension of the infrastructure into the smallest municipality and village. I know what I'm talking about, I'm also saying that as mayor! Ladies and gentlemen, if we already ask what happened in Lower Austria, what has been so bad, then I can only say: Is it the €600 million for the expansion of kindergartens? [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: There are 5 000 care places missing!]] Is it the extra 1000 cots that are created? Is it the 3,500 additional housing units for cared for living? And since the housing funds are always mentioned: Let's stick to the truth! We don't want anything but facts and truth. We don't need to be beautiful. We don't need fairy tales in Lower Austria. Since 2008 alone 130,000 housing units have been built in Lower Austria and their renovation has been promoted. Only at the last meeting of the state government last week was a support package for 4,400 housing units decided, i.e. loans of € 49,2 million were granted, with annual interest subsidies of € 5.7 million. What does that mean for the Federal State of Lower Austria and its economy? This means that there is an investment volume of €9.3 billion. This ensures jobs, it creates jobs, that is the work done in Lower Austria! This is what Mr. Erwin Pröll and his team do – and not those who make the country bad, who break the country and believe in winning voices. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we also need to see: There is someone who walks around and even refuses to discuss with top politicians of other parties – I think that was with Mrs Glawischnig. [[Call the SPÖ: Who is that?]] Yeah, what's he afraid of? He doesn't even have the mumm to hold the discussion in a big round, to hear arguments. He doesn't want to hear the arguments of the other parties at all! And why not? – Not only because he cannot listen, but also because he would have to put his own arguments on the table because he would have to put his own work programme on the table – and he has none! He has only one plot: to condone everyone, to make everything bad, to do no service himself. - He doesn't need that either, because he doesn't go to the country day. ==References== On March 2, Stronach is in the Superjet in Canada, and no one is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16005	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16028	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schittenhelm! [[The speaker puts a table entitled “Tricksen like the Greeks: Thus, the ÖVP speculates 10,000 cheap apartments” on the speaker’s desk, on which a cartoon of the head of state Pröll plays the hat game with three hats bearing the inscriptions “Augustus”, “Aquarius” and “Aurelius”.]] Actually, I can - and I did - fish out the speech I gave here last week 1 : 1. At the time you held a colleague from SPÖ, he's holding a fairy tale hour. This time you have once again shown us impressively what your fairy tale hour looks like, when it comes to the uncle Erwin. In this context, I would like to quote the current “profile” where the “panged country” is spoken of. I quote shortly: "In the Landtagswahlen on the 3rd day of the season. In March, the absolute majority for Governor Erwin Pröll could be lost from the ÖVP. For democracy in Lower Austria this would be a step in modern times.” Accept [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Once you have these comments from media, in this case from the “profile”! [[Abg. Schittenhelm holds an election brochure of the ÖVP Niederösterreich to the height on which he is pictured by the head of state Pröll.]] [[Oje-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] These are the facts that are being presented, and we have heard of several synonyms of the Pröll system during the last few minutes, but also at the plenary session last week. We have heard of the “Casino Pröll”, we have heard of the “Caesar Pröll”, we have heard of “absolute pröllism”. I can only underline all of this. The point is – and this is my personal conviction, and also the conviction of my group – that the system has long exceeded Zenit. He has long crossed the summit in Lower Austria – the highest mountain in Lower Austria is the debt mountain and not the snowberg. This should be recognized sometime, because all the facts simply speak for it. If you have been watching Mr. Landeshuptmann in recent weeks, as he has done at press conferences, in discussions, also in concrete terms at the elephant round, then you have to find out: Erwin Pröll is no longer the same personality he may have been. He was weak, he was bloodless, he was pale. In the final opinion, in which he actually wanted to present the programme for Lower Austria, he again addressed competitors – a cardinal error in communication technology! This was supposed to be a successful head of state, but he no longer masters it. Again: He crossed the zenith! We've heard enough about the charges. I'll get back together. The Court of Auditors has found 1 billion € loss. This can be done by the colleague silently and, as he wishes, 1 billion € loss with invoices 31.12.2008. These are facts and not any fairy tales that we liberals suck at. We have already said that Mr. Landeshuptmann and his music school director – or music school teacher, no idea, but the fact is that Mr. Landesrat Sobotka simply has no competence on the subject of finance – Low Austria could not be equated with a casino, we could act differently today. I brought a sign with me, I keep it clear again towards ÖVP. [[The speaker takes the panel on the speaker's desk and keeps it in height.]] It is tricked what the stuff holds, and it has not deserved the land of Lower Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] More treats – I already put it to the fore last week –: The hypo Lower Austria is presented as a solid company. – To determine the judicial system, to determine the supervision of the financial market, losses have been incurred. I say quite openly: It must finally say goodbye to politics from these Landesbanken, because that is one of the fundamental evils. [[Abg. Head: She'll have to do that soon, right now!]] I would like to recall the Skylink Debakel: Ernest Gabmann, your former head of state, was there on the board of directors, and the state of Lower Austria is a majority owner there – but there was nothing known about it, even there was nothing to do. The country of Lower Austria has an incredible debt development. Today we speak of about €7 billion in debt. In 20 years, Mr. Landeshuptmann has managed to increase these debts from €500 million to just under €7 billion. To the colleague Schittenhelm, who says it was invested, because 100 million, there 400 million: Do you actually have something like a healthy merchant's mind? [[Abg. Shit helmet: Yes!]] You can't spend more than you take in the medium and long term. [[Abg. My budget is positive!]] Unfortunately, Mr Pröll has forgotten this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Mayerhofer: He can no longer pay his salaries!]] [[Abg. Shit helmet: I've been in the plus for years!]] The problem is that those in the future will have to eliminate and settle those debts that are still working productively today. The head of state will eventually drop his pencil, you as mayor detto, and then: Behind us the flood! I can provide you with countless examples, including from the municipality of Mr Höfinger, Sieghartskirchen, where you can buy decommissionable huts by €160 000, which in fact have a value of €50 000, €60 000, €70 000. It is simply spent with full hands and thrown out of the window. That can and must not be, and you have to admit that. [[Abg. Schittenhelm: Take a look at the municipality of Bisamberg!]] The Austrian People's Party of Social Democracy is always in favour of this debt-makers' policy. [[Abg. Hörl: Klagenfurt!]] You are, please, since I do not know how many decades in the Federal Government, dominated – unfortunately! – still the countries, and in reality you are just as big debt drivers as the Social Democrats. You have to make that clear. This is a fact, Mrs Schittenhelm! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Krainer: No, that's none! I don't have to...!]] I have already mentioned this debt policy. Read this! These are facts. [[Abg. Grosz:... Salzburg?]] To Ernst Strasser: Listen carefully, even if you do not know it now, perhaps the colleague Schittenhelm has the Mr. Ernst Strasser still in the phone book, even if you can do it now... [[Call the ÖVP:Of course!]] - Of course? Interesting to know! You know what Mr Strasser has done. After all, he is the political guardian of the head of state and was Klubobmann of the ÖVP Lower Austria. I have already reported on the security and asylum situation last week. We're being attacked by hordes of criminals. We of the liberals in Lower Austria say stun and clear: We finally have to secure our borders. [[Abg. Krainer: Go S’n, stop S’ with the election speeches! Stay by the topic! Please, security policy is federal matter, not state level!]] - Yes, yes, stay on the subject. It's all into the Pröll system. I know it's unpleasant, but it's okay. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now heard: The Pröll system is replaced. ==References====External links== March break the Absolute. This is our goal – especially for us as a Freedom Party, so that reasonable forces can finally come to work there again. I'm good.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16249	Mr Mag. Rossmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16270	Madam President. High house! Mr Landeshuptmann Erwin Pröll is the last Mohicaner who still believes that he has made no losses with his Casino Pröll. Another one sitting here in the form of Mr Stumbling – at the moment I do not know where, but he speaks of less income and recommends that we read the Court of Auditors' report. I have read the two Court of Auditors very well and very carefully. The 2010 Court of Auditors report says – I quote – that: "The performance of the estimated funds reduced the country's long-term earnings by almost one billion by the end of 2008. EUR.’ That's a loss, I'd say. [[Abg. Ing. Schools: Really?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, sure!]] Poked at the casino, in any fund with sounding names from August to what I know where! - That's one. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] We'll keep reading. [[Abg. Head: An unachieved profit is a loss, isn't it?]] – Yes, Mr Klubobmann! We continue to read the Court of Auditors' follow-up report. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That was the benchmark for...!]] There it says: These losses – not “minor revenues”! – could not be picked up until today. On the contrary, it has become more. [[Abg. Krainer: The bet was yes, I have to do 4.6 percent so I don't lose anything!]] Let's see what happened. – Out of 8 billion, sales have made a little more than 4 billion, and in order to compensate for these initial losses that have arisen, you have to earn at least the discount factor of 4.6 percent in order to return to the €8 billion. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's how it looks!]] However, the Court of Auditors has found that the average interest rate was not 4.6% or even 5%, as it would have done, but only around 2%. The head of state – the last Mohican – speaks of 3 percent, but that is too little. Jobs You're going to: Who here in this high house and among the spectators in front of the television screens would take up a loan by 4.6 percent and then make it up to 2%? – After no man who can count up to three would do that! This was written to Mr. Erwin Pröll once in the main book. And when he says we're gonna pick up all this: At the low interest rates we currently have, it is only reversible if extremely speculatively charged. And always when extreme speculation is charged, the danger of losses being caused in recent years at Casino Pröll in Lower Austria is of course very high. That is why we urgently need a ban on speculation, but such a one that deserves that name. The rules we discussed here yesterday in the High House are not suitable to prevent what happened in Lower Austria. Why aren't they suitable? First of all, there is no point in saying that proceeds from divestments, whether by housing loans or other public property, cannot be speculated as to whether the corresponding environment, the appropriate principles are created, the corresponding controls are created and the corresponding accounting system is created. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] If we have not achieved the rules that were presented yesterday, but we have not made the way to the plenary today, we must certainly note that in this famous Article 15a agreement – the Minister of Finance always speaks of the “heart” of this speculation ban – there are not only significant gaps in terms of the principles, but also the control is inconceivable, because it has been transferred to a committee, the Austrian Coordination Committee, to which I always agree a comparison, namely the Krenhobel. This Austrian coordination committee has not yet achieved anything that has contributed to the coordination of the financial policy to which it has been called. [[Abg. May. Kogler: A "wheat, mustard and kren" body!]] The control group put to the side does not have the necessary information it can provide to this committee so that it can then at all take control. However, there is also a lack of transparency in the form of a modern accounting system. First progress was made yesterday. As early as § 16 of the Financial Constitution, a regulatory authority should be made for the Minister of Finance and the President of the Court of Auditors in order to establish the necessary rules for drawing up the estimates and invoices with a view to transparency. But the ÖVP, together with the Minister of Finance, has been kneeling in front of the federal states, because there is an Article 15a agreement here again, which is obviously to prevent us from having a transparent accounting system in Austria. As long as we do not have a transparent accounting system, it will not be possible to end the Casino Pröll or the speculation in other federal states where there is no such transparency. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] Therefore, Mrs Finanzminister: Act on your national leaders, on Pröll and Co, so that we can finally create a speculation ban that deserves this name and that the Casino Pröll ends, because it is about taxpayers' money and it can and must not be that taxpayers' money on the financial markets are accumulated. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16411	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16433	Madam President. High house! Welcome to the Lower Austrian country election campaign! I don't know how you're doing, but I've got some calls in the meantime and I've been asked why the bank series are so empty here. For the explanation for the spectators in front of the remote screens: We have already held the same debate a week ago. However, it is a pity that this particular group, which is in the crossfire of criticism, is the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, is not prepared to discuss with us. The urgent question itself is justified. But I still have to ask colleagues from the Stronach team: Where's your clubman today? [[Abg. Tadler: Sick!]] On Sunday, there was an election campaign for the country election. Where was your top candidate? So if you stand up for the election, you should also take your ideas and with the candidates of the election, otherwise there is a risk that you will be elected to the bodies in which you may be – or not – not occupying the corresponding mandates, colleagues from the Stronach team. - That's the first one. [[Abg. Krainer: How am I supposed to make the speech about the Petzner and your speech sound like it?]] Secondly, In addition to the chief officer in Lower Austria, the head of state Pröll, there is another chief officer, namely the Council of State Sobotka. He was, from 1996 to 1998, mayor in his home community Waidhofen on the Ybbs and has already learned the principles of socks and speculation there. That's where he sold the town savings bank. And what did he do? – An old castle he then renovated and converted into a hotel. Okay, it may be that this is quite appropriate, but in the final effect – and he may not be solely responsible for it – 40 million € remain in the municipality of Waidhofen, i.e. half a billion shillings in old money! That was the ÖVP mayor! He's made a career. And just to remember: A management consulting company named PSL then called Waidhofen the financially most difficult city in Austria. – So much for the award of Mr Sobotka. However, he nevertheless won a fight against Mr Spindelegger, who was then known as Vice-Chancellor, then joined the Finance Council in 1998 and apparently continued these speculation principles from the municipality in the country. It has already been stressed several times, what has come out of it. But I also say the following: You can't steal from responsibility! There were other parties. Ten or twelve years ago, when the accident began, it was still common for other federal states, such as Upper Austria, to increase housing loans. But Upper Austria has invested, in Lower Austria one has speculated – that was the difference. But, as I said, the SPÖ was also there, there was also the FPÖ, and of course also the ÖVP was with it. But what we should learn is: How's it going now? The Minister for Finance has already said this: It is now a ban on speculation and a uniform budgetary law throughout the country, for the whole public sector, not only for the federal government, countries and municipalities, but also for everything else, which is in the public's sphere of influence. The results – I don't understand – are the honesty of the ÖVP: 8 billion housing funds are being increased, with interest of course, by 4.4 billion – because this is what you have got – and then the Court of Auditors notes that after a few years a billion is still going on. - That's a huge loss. The Court of Auditors, which Mr Rossmann has already quoted, notes that the country's long-term result target has been missed by nearly 1 billion. And colleague head of the ÖVP thinks that's no loss. Mr Kopf! Since you only need to go two or three pages further, it says inside that there was a false amount of € 996.8 million at the end of 2008. So this billion is missing! The dishonesty is then when we stand up as the head of state, as the financial officer of Lower Austria and say that we have made 800 million profits. These 800 million relate solely to the interest rate of the remaining capital of 4.4 billion. But in total, you had 8 billion! And there are almost 4 billion that you can write in the wind that the taxpayer will eventually lose. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] What makes me particularly outraged is how to deal with the money of the little housekeepers. This would have been intended to create and organize favourable housing for families in Lower Austria in the long term. [[In the case of the BZÖ and the Agg. Mayerhofer.]] You have taken this opportunity in the longer term, because the money is missing elsewhere. At the time, Mr Sobotka meant that 5 to 6 percent interest would be taken. Only 1.8 to 2.2 percent have then become reality. What happened? – The own fibeg, the financial agency of the Lower Austrians, who speculated here with other daughters, does not have, as it has been said today, conservative, forward looking, long-term, cautiously invested, no, she has speculated on devils coming out, in the tax paradise of Cayman Islands. More than 40 million have even been found in the well-known funds of Madoff, the investigator. Is that conservative? Is that value-oriented, forward-looking? – No, not at all, that’s not it! This is the international financial casino, where they have paid in and of course have come out with corresponding losses, because everyone who once was at the casino knows, the bank always wins and the player always loses or mostly loses. That is to say, the result of a billion is not beautiful, nor does the ÖVP have to admit it openly and fairly. A country captain of real political size, responsibility and morality would admit and say that, yes, something went into his pants, we will judge it again and see that we get out of here as soon as possible. That would be the fair, correct approach for the ÖVP. But you don't do that, you try to talk things up. I can only recall what the ÖVP, but also the SPÖ at the Carinthian Hypo, did. That's exactly what you know, that was politically motivated. That's where the devil was off! The Gabi Burgstallers were also rightly criticized in Salzburg. But this has not happened in Lower Austria, because behind me there is a black superintendent, a Minister of Finance, who holds her hand over her uncle Erwin in Lower Austria and does not let anything burn. That's how it works in Austria. We are already in the party book economy. But the bird was shot down by Oberjägermeister Pröll himself with his statements according to these Court of Auditors reports. I know if I said that in Lower Austria, it would be a Majesty's policy, but I say it anyway: He shot the bird because he said in the direction of President of the Court of Auditors Moser that it was obviously too little qualified. What did Mr Moser say after Pröll said about the ban on speculation, which is now the whole opposition and also the government? – Mr. Moser has remained calm, has kept his nerves, and has behaved like a gentleman. He then subsequently entered into his Court of Auditors' report: “The result of the examination was discussed and criticised intensively even before the report was presented to the Landtag despite the legally normed confidentiality.” So a clear violation of the law of those who carried it out to the public. We know who that was, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Then it goes on: “The RH has not expressed itself in accordance with the confidentiality rules despite massive but clearly refutable criticism.” – It has adhered to the agreements. The ÖVP in Lower Austria is not. ‘After the submission, recommendations of the RH were incorrect and/or incorrect. not fully quoted and interpreted and questioned the impartiality and objectivity of the RH.’ Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! The Court of Auditors is an institution of Parliament. The Court of Auditors is an institution that we must have full confidence in if we still want to take ourselves seriously. If a head of state goes here and says that this president is too little qualified just because he finds that the same head of state has speculated billions with his financial reference, then that doesn't fit anymore, then it's not moral, then it's not the Christian-conservative principles that you pretend to represent. On the contrary: This is the mentality of casino speculators, colleague head of the ÖVP! Finally, I think that we will be well advised to learn now because of these incidents that have happened. There will be little use in bringing the country election campaign into the National Council, which will hardly impress the Lower Austrians. But one thing could impress them that we are taking the logical and correct steps out of it, and that is the ban on speculation. Here I hear, and we know that the SPÖ would have been willing to write the ban on speculation into the Constitution. I know the greens want it in the core too, but I don't know why the Greens now reject it. Mr Rossmann said earlier that the speculation of Lower Austria could not be prevented by these formulations. – Mr Rossmann! That's not right! I personally asked the President of the Court of Auditors and also the head of the OeBFA, the Federal Finance Agency, whether this was possible. The answer was clear yes. With these formulations, which are, as admittedly, not optimal, Article 15a agreements, Regulations et cetera, et cetera, it is possible to maintain such speculations in the future, both nationally and at national and local level. These are the facts. If you know that, then you should do one, then you should decide quickly now, for who believes it after 3. March, if Mr Pröll has won a brilliant election, then he'll be easier, he'll be dreaming of warm ice-creams. Because if, then, we have to close the bag now, then we have to take advantage of the hour and here we have to adopt a corresponding ban on speculation and uniform budgetary guidelines for all countries and for all communities, because after 3. March is too late for the ÖVP to continue ruling with all-power and prepotence again.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16497	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16520	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to give one to Mrs Schittenhelm, unfortunately she is not here, but I say it anyway, perhaps she can be executed. I would really appeal to the ÖVP in Lower Austria to note that in Lower Austria there are also people who have not chosen the ÖVP and are still proud Lower Austrians and who are not, above all, country enemies, because not to vote the ÖVP does not automatically mean that you are an enemy in Lower Austria. That's why I'd really ask. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] I also find it really adventurous – many have already talked about it today – that many, almost all in this House and the Court of Auditors, are talking about losses in housing loans, but only a few do not want to take note of them. This is the ÖVP in Lower Austria and these are the tops of the ÖVP in Lower Austria. I can't understand! It is above all about making mistakes, not making mistakes anymore. It is primarily about clarifying, and it is mainly about not doing such business anymore. I believe that we all agree that speculations with taxpayers should no longer be possible in the future. And I don't understand why you're not ready to explain. What is possible in Salzburg, what goes on in Salzburg, should be possible in Lower Austria. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is unfortunately not due to the power conditions in Lower Austria. It is not because the ÖVP is preventing Lower Austria's Enlightenment and because all who dare to practice criticism in Lower Austria are called land enemies and liars. I do not think that is all right, and I think that if so many say, including the Court of Auditors, that there have been losses, then you can't simply wipe it away and then it may be possible that the ÖVP Lower Austria is wrong. But that's not the case, the ÖVP says it's about clarity. I don't think that's clarity, I think, that's arrogance, and I also think that's a wrong way of dealing with the power that voters give to politicians. Knowledge we all do, and this is fact, that has been mentioned several times today, that in 2002 8 billion €, a little more, were sold to residential loans and that these 8 billion € residential loans had to be interested due to the risk the buyer takes. It was paid off at 4.6 percent interest, so at one stroke this €8 billion was only worth €4.4 billion. This €4.4 billion – Mr President, unfortunately it is not too stupid – has been blamed, that is right, Mr President, but it is clear to everyone that if one wanted to write a profit – that was also the reason why one had charged these housing loans – at least an annual interest rate of 4.6 percent. It didn't happen. That was not too high, either, this 5 percent, which was decided at the time, were not randomly chosen, but it was clear that if you want to write of these alleged residential loans profits, then you would have to reach a return by 5 percent. Unfortunately, this return has not been achieved in all these years, and therefore there are these 1 billion or 1.8 billion, depending on how you look at it all, losses. This is also said in the 2012 Court of Auditors report; Unfortunately, my colleague is not here now, please direct it to him. The Court of Auditors says: The deficit of just under €1 billion was not achieved by the end of 2008 compared to the country’s long-term target. This is what the Court of Auditors report says, and this should also be taken into account by ÖVP Niederösterreich. The press is written – this is also a very good quote from a newspaper that is not very close to social democracy: “So, of course, every assumption success among the five percent per year that was once announced is a tangible loss for the country of Lower Austria.” – You can’t say it more clearly. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If, now, the various figures on the return rate over all these ten years are curtailed, around 1.8 percent says the Court of Auditors, 2.2 percent state captain Sobotka or 3 percent state captain Pröll, then we know that in any case it is not the estimated 5 percent, and that is why it is a loss. This is also addressed to the EIA's colleagues. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If the head of state Pröll has said in the press hour, it is possible to recover these losses over the next 20 years, we also know that in the next few years we will have to make returns of more than 11 percent, and that is, that is to say, with confidence, very risky and highly speculative. And we don't want any speculations with taxpayers in the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Mayerhofer: There are also 20 years over! You have to say that too!]] Ladies and gentlemen, not least because of this, and because not even those responsible for the highest level of responsibility of the ÖVP Lower Austria go to the public with the same figures, education is really necessary and it is necessary to ensure transparency in this area. This is our responsibility. We are dealing responsibly with tax money, and we are also concerned with the responsible handling of the power that voters give us. I very much hope that after the 3rd round. There are other conditions in Lower Austria, so that there is indeed clarity in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16572	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16593	Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I am opposed to this discussion with a kind of distanced laziness, because I have rarely been so fad in a discussion that should actually be an election campaign. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: But that is related to your lack of interest!]] I haven't heard anything new yet. The only thing that was clearly felt was an admiration for our national captain, Erwin Pröll, throughout all political groups. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] It was really a demonstration of respect and awe, everyone has shown it in its kind. The colleagues from behind have tried it with: Jessas na, we're on our way to state bankruptcy, and I don't know everything. Thank you! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You find that funny, don't you?]] I think that's really funny, because what the colleagues from the Stronach team have offered, that was really weak, just weak today. I now understand why you were no longer needed at BZÖ. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] But whether Mr Stronach will have a joy with you for a long time, the voters will answer, I am not interested in that. Mr Kogler has moments and times, but if I look at what he's been doing today, I have to say honestly, that's not what we're used to from him. He can, if he wants to, better, but today he didn't want to, he was just casual and dirty. It was really bad. It is! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Is this the level of the ÖVP, or what is this supposed to do? That's inconceivable!]] Don't be angry with me, I just have to find out! You have also thought of it yourself, Mrs Glawischnig. You've been a little disappointed by him today. But don't do anything, let's leave it! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Stay at least polite! That's a joke!]] Mr Sacher explained to us today that he was at the beginning of the day, but at some point he was wiring around on the Fers’n and saying: From now on, I don't care! – Lietln, that’s how you can’t manage! [[Abg. Brosz: Were you in the cafeteria before?]] Economics is the subject of this, and if we were to talk about economics, then this is one thing, but what it should have been today would have been an election spectacle. I have to tell you quite honestly, the Lower Austrians see that as well. They have a great sympathy for our Erwin Pröll. You know he's been running the country with his personality for 20 years. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They also know that he can talk to everyone, to the little man as well as to the big man, in eye-to-face, and they also know that he really does handle things properly. We know that the mayors in Lower Austria have a good partner with Erwin Pröll, and if they make up for something that holds true. That's what it's all about! [[Abg. Mayerhofer: For this he has increased the fees by 150 percent!]] – Don't be presumptuous, you live by the Gage too! My friends, the head of state in the municipality obviously has the standing that you need to plan projects in the medium term. He has the standing that one needs to be able to start projects as mayor in confidence in strong partners themselves. And that's what citizens feel: There are kindergartens. There's the nursing homes. There's the care of our seniors. It works the auxiliary work. [[Call the SPÖ:But not thanks to the ÖVP!]] It's just that Lower Austria is making a catch-up movement that works. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Don't you notice that no one believes this anymore?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The claim made in advance by the Kogler on the question of the Fibeg reports to the FMA: Of course, the FMA got all the reports. That was simply confused, as Mr Kogler said, it was not true. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: 80 percent of your speech is polemic! Now you get to the point!]] Ladies and gentlemen! 100 percent of today's demand was polemic – 100 percent! The colleague – I’m trying, Mr Wittmann! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: But the biggest polemic was now! Are we in agreement?]] I'm trying. It's not my way, but today it's thanks, too, Cap agrees: [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Hallelujah!]] We need the Pröll! That's it. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, so fascinating is Lower Austria, so good is our election movement, and so it must continue. The Lower Austrians know exactly what they have to do with this Erwin Pröll. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The clubman is hiding already!]] The tension is that, you always come with “arrogance” and “highness” and, and, with allegations that show me quite clearly that you simply want to get out of the conversation, because you are unsure in the conversation yourself because you cannot come up with arguments. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This is polemic!]] If you make arguments, it won't be a problem, but your top candidate, Mr Leitner, has been out of the discussion for a long time and doesn't know what he wants. If so, the voters will decide. The coming Sunday will show us how. In any case, we know that with our Dr. Erwin Pröll we are well on our way, and Lower Austria will go a strong way. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: “All in control”!]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: It's enough! It's enough!]] I am pleased that the Lower Austrian Land Day is also here in this High House. – Thank you very much and very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16861	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16882	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! After the speech of Mr Schultes, the advertising statement of ÖVP Niederösterreich inevitably comes to my mind: “All in control”, and you really do. The events in Lower Austria and, above all, the speeches we have heard now are symptomatic of the situation in Lower Austria and, in fact, the logical continuation of this discussion that we have held in the morning. This clearly shows why no agreement has been reached on the ban on speculation. I believe that even though this urgent question from the wording was not necessarily optimal and we actually discussed it a week ago, it again shows quite clearly how politics is going in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Tadler: Double holds better!]] And it shows – and I am almost sorry; we have already discussed it today, Mrs Federal Minister, and I believe that we are really a sense, except once, but already today – how much the ÖVP in the federal government is in hostagery of Lower Austria. To a certain extent, I even gain an understanding of the behavior, because on Sunday it is election and I cannot expect the head of state of Lower Austria to say: Mea culpa, I speculated 1 billion! That he will, of course, wall that he rejects this to a certain degree and proves the guilt of himself, that is all understandable at the end of the day. But we still have to face up to the realities, and the realities are just on the table. I compare this once with other federal states or cities, for example with Salzburg. In Salzburg the cards were then placed on the table, and Landesrat Brenner had to go because he was no longer politically portable. Linz, the capital of my home country, is in no good situation, even there – it seems – €450 million has been speculated. And that's why you can only say one thing: There will also be a need for action in Lower Austria. ==References== March will be the Day of Truth, and after the 3rd. It will be open to lay on the table on March, and everything will have to be corrected as well. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that the voter is wiser than we believe; I should actually give him the right because I believe that the voter is wiser than we believe. Electors are really smarter and will recognize that too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The problem in the EIA is currently: To whom are you loyal or to whom are you more listening? I have already said it this morning, the ÖVP is usually very EU-believer and very listen to what comes from the EU, but today I have already seen the opposite: I believe that loyalty and obedience to Lower Austria are much stronger! But it's about the state welfare at the end of the day. Therefore, I believe that the EIA would also be well advised, it would agree to the ban on speculation and therefore also to a uniform accounting system. Madam Minister, I can only give you the right! In your opinion, you have stressed once more – I have been very careful – that you will no longer tolerate speculations with debt and therefore require a uniform accounting system. I'll go with you all d'accord. Lower Austria is – so that it is not misunderstandable, I say as Upper Austria, I have always had a lot to do with Lower Austria, I have had myself a company that had its headquarters in Lower Austria – a very great country with skilled and very nice people. Lower Austria also has a good wine – I give it all the way around. So if one criticizes the political conditions in Lower Austria, then this is not a criticism of the country, but then it is only criticism of politics, of how the country is currently managed and governed. Unfortunately, there are still many in Lower Austria who are afraid of opposition and of Enlightenment. In the past it has once said: Whoever's laughing, he's flying! But this has only more to do with Lower Austria. Mrs Bundesminister, I would also like to give one of the best. You installed a new board at FMA, Mr. Klaus Kumpfmüller. Unlike other opposition parties – in all order modes that exist so; we know, of course, that Mr. Kumpfmüller is from the ÖVP area – I am aware of that – I do not want to say that I understand – but it will be measured by his actions. I'm not going to say he's bad from the outset just because he's from the Raika or the Hypo Upper Austria or once worked with you. What I'm talking for him is, he's a narrower countryman of mine – he's also from the inner quarter – and he's used to hearing open words. I hope he will do the same. We will, of course, measure him by his actions and not by his origin. Ladies and gentlemen! It is time for a paradigm change in Lower Austria. Kings and princes belong to dethroned. Absolute monarchies such as Pröllistan are, as I mean, long forms of society from the past, which are no longer in the 21st century. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16928	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16949	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Let us put it together briefly, we discussed it very thoroughly last week, and now the arguments have been partially repeated. Point one: The Court of Auditors is talking about a failure of 996 million; that is almost 1 billion. Point two: It was once 8 billion, now it's – I don't know, 3 or 4 – probably only over 3 billion. Point three: Housing funds must be invested – people need cheap apartments, people need renovated apartments – and they must not be speculated. Point four: We must ensure that a control possibility is finally established in Lower Austria. This passage to the international exchanges with the housing promotion funds has been partly carried out under the surveillance of the land day, but not under the control of the land day. We still have no insight into the details. They claim this and that the Court of Auditors was able to take an insight, says stupibly and clearly that almost 1 billion are missing, and we as the controller – whether in Vienna or in St. Pölten – do not have the opportunity to really get to know the details. The head of state goes to the public repeatedly and says exactly the opposite of what the Court of Auditors has to say. - That can't be! The Court of Auditors must first and foremost be given confidence and, second, finally, the head of state must be brought to the Council. This Raeson will hopefully be the next Sunday, the 3. March, bring it with you. I still come to fact five: In Lower Austria, we have conditions – the example of housing, investment or waste of these funds – which are characterized by power, power of an absolute majority. This all-power is becoming a superpower, and this superpower must break on Sunday, only because the people in Lower Austria deserve transparent conditions and the money should remain in Lower Austria, be it for housing, whether it be for other useful projects, be it for a favorable public transport, for the expansion of the range of bus and rail – but not for speculation purposes, especially since one already knows that then there will be less than one has invested and brought to the stock exchange! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e16994	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17016	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Finanzminister! High house! ==References====External links== March, moving closer, and we are now experiencing, in a way, the repetition of the urgents from the last session. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No!]] In the context of the Lower Austrian country election, I would rather have suspected that one is dealing with the future, with innovative ideas, but the look goes back to at least 12 years ago. A speaker of the SPÖ claimed that there was already the Absolute at that time. In fact, there was a coalition between ÖVP and SPÖ, but there was broad consensus towards the social model region. Overall, one has to say, there was a gold tomb at the time, an optimizing of finances in order to implement as many projects as possible. At this time I was also often present at kindergarten, at folk school building openings et cetera. There were always all parties represented and also quite proud of what is being made possible in this federal state. In 2008/2009, there was a massive correction in the financial sector. I think it's really time to find out about speculation, about how to create clear rules: What Is Prohibited? Or, in other words, What can you, what can't you do? This must also be extended to the communities if I am thinking only of foreign currency loans. I can well remember a debate in the council in my home. I have spoken my mouth out loud, all the others who also represent these two directions were, of course, for that. [[towards SPÖ and ÖVP]] Today we have high price losses. From my point of view, this is also something a bar belongs to. Swiss franc, Yen, that can go in both directions, in this case we paid massively on it, tag interest rate risk. I have now reached the banks that have always given great importance to consulting on how to optimize all of this. Yesterday I also heard in the ORF of an important judgment of the Supreme Court on the position between consultants and banks in a Swiss-Franken loan received. I hope something breaks up. Because what do we experience on a local level now? . There are these interest-rate adjustments, which flatten us from the banks, this increase. We are told one-sidedly that the refinancing is very difficult, so we are forced to increase between 0.5 and 2%, I say now – one-sidedly. One takes up a loan, negotiates the terms and conditions – and this is then modified unilaterally. There is a reference to the general terms and conditions. If these were not recognized, there would be no loan either. I am now thinking only of the equivalence principle and I am already excited whether there will be judgments here too. From my point of view, this is not a correct behavior. One swallows it, the banks seem to have a corresponding influence. From my point of view, that's not all right. I should of course also like to express my views on the Niederösterreich election. It is unfortunate when you think about the future, when you simply don't have innovative ideas, when you're almost exclusively dealing with the past. No one was there – and yet there were unanimous decisions. The question is also where the control function has been in the last four and a half years, I say. There are government members, I've been one myself – so you're going to have everything you want, you don't see anything, I think, you have to ask yourself the question if you really do the control function optimally. I don't think so. For the rescue of honor of Lower Austria: Much has gone on in this federal state. With this opinion I do not stand alone, there are very wide-ranging people who say, yes, that was all right. I think it is already too late now, of course, but I would like to say that the last weeks of the election campaign have gone in a completely wrong direction, and with this one has made the federal state bad, the people in Lower Austria have not deserved it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's been spoken of by dictatorship and the like, so I'm probably a totally unwarranted, party-political witness: We live in democracy, there are democratic processes. I was only recently very amazed when a SPÖ city councillor, who has been active in this party for decades, got up and said: Now it's enough for me, now I'm going to say something. I met Mr. Landeshupt, he was immediately accessible to me by phone, I would have liked to see that with the people from my party! Ladies and gentlemen! It only takes more than a few days, on the 3rd. March will be billed. From my point of view, Lower Austria is a federal country that deserves to continue to be well managed.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17067	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17089	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In short, I would just like to say a replication on Mr Schultes: If you lift someone up like this, you should also say that a team always comes. When Pröll comes, sobotka, as well as in Carinthia, when Dörfler comes, comes also Scheuch. We need to be clear about one thing: If we raise people who try to speculate with our money – I say quite consciously – with our money, because it is the money that the Austrians have generated – that is to condemn. I say to our group: It is clear to us that we have to put a bar on this path! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say briefly that when housing promotion funds are sold, people are the sufferers. We have experienced this in Carinthia that too little money is available to build new apartments, start-ups for young people to create opportunities for more expansion. The banks don't give up a millimeter, we've seen this in the rent increases. There are no time limits in the area of loans, so people have to expect a massive increase in the cost of apartments after a certain period of time. I would just like to point out: Mistakes can always happen, but if mistakes happen – this shows Salzburg – then there is the possibility to work up this meticulous, step by step, in order to make really clear ships. I would also like to say – because it always means “our money”, in Carinthia we have someone who even posters “our money” – that in Carinthia we actually sold everything that is for sale. It has also been sold in Carinthia, it has sold the Kelag shares, and it is the hypo sold – and the debts are higher than ever before! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The Hospitals!]] Also, the liability, I would just like to note, has risen to immense heights. One thing has been achieved in Carinthia, however: It has not been speculated, but the future fund has been disincentived by the social partners – I say again: by the social partners – with 500 million people in the area of hypo and has not been able to be attacked to this day. Otherwise, we wouldn't have a single cent in Carinthia today to do something for the future. I would also like to say – Mr Obernosterer will be heading for Carinthia again – briefly: If the Economic and Social Committee or all the social partners sign a block agreement for the future fund, I would like the Economic and Social Committee not to fall down 24 hours later, but to comply with it in the future, because that is important to us. These 500 million must remain in the country of Carinthia in order to be able to do a lot in the future for education, work, as well as health and housing. No greed has lost anything here, but security has been asked! Mrs. Kaufmann-Bruckberger, you have written in your urgent request “regarding corruption suspicion in the network” and so on. These are the first four words you started your request. In today’s issue of a newspaper, your “Uncle Frank ” is reported, “because he knows how it works. ” I just want to know what he knows about Carinthia: Mr Stronach has promised in Carinthia to create 1,000 new jobs in the Magna plant, to build seven halls, and in the Reifnitz Castle a training centre is to be created. – What do we have? Although he bought a reason from the city of Klagenfurt, there is only one hall there. In October, 85 temporary workers were released. 65 employees are still working there, but the Reifnitz Castle has gone to use Mr Stronach and Mr Wolf. Now you're talking about whether or not he's gonna somehow make apartments. I believe that, as you place, new values are important, but your values are exchange values, assets and property values. These are not our values, because our values are those that put people at the centre, and that will prove SPÖ in the future in Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17134	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17156	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! I do not want to go into the comments of Mr Widmann or Mr Schultes or Mr Schittenhelm, but tell you, Mr Lipitsch, if you have any questions to Mr Frank Stronach, give them to me, I am sure he will answer them as soon as possible. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] However, I still think it is good that this debate has taken place for the time being today, because this shows quite clearly that it is the ÖVP that wants to continue the path of tax money waste and the path of re-indebtedness. I have already said it in the context of my explanatory statement to the Dringliches, but I repeat it again: More than ten years ago, debt was transferred to and from non-budget facilities. In Austria there are still about 3,000 such facilities. On the other hand, this also means that public funds are managed in more than 5,000 budgets. Further disbursements are planned for 2013; between 400 and 600 are to be, and the public hand, i.e. the taxpayer, is liable for this. I believe that the strategy of outsourcing has only worked in the short term and has actually failed. Austria's debt problems have worsened, and the eyes cannot be closed before that. I believe that the exclusions will not be sufficient to meet the Maastricht criteria in the future. I repeat – and thus return to Austria –: Over the last four years, the country's liabilities have increased by 80 percent. We currently have liabilities of 12 billion. That too is the truth! 3.2 billion are parked in private debt companies. That too is the truth! Municipal debt of 3.8 billion – this too is the truth! National debt of 5.6 billion – this too is the truth! That is, we have not only liabilities of 12 billion, we also have a debt backpack of 12.6 billion. That in the "Casino Pröll/Sobotka" about 1.8 billion have been speculated, playful, even taxpayers, we have heard more often today. Mrs Bundesminister, I now call on you to exercise your competence immediately and to ensure the necessary transparency within the meaning of the Financial Constitution Law 1948. Under § 16 of the Financial Constitution Act, the Federal Government is entitled to have a uniformly transparent state account without the consent of the countries. For the economy with tax money for general care, we therefore call for the delivery to be carried exclusively in domestic currency, liquidity is allowed only for the necessary cash holding, and overliquidity should be used for debt eradication within four weeks – for the longer term.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17223	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. [[17:41:00]] Short debate on the response to the question 12979/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17244	We now come to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Education, Art and Culture with the order number 12979/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, the first speaker for reasons of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Dr. Walser to be the first signatory of the desire to open the debate. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17279	Mr President. The women's ministers! High house! Appreciated spectators at home and here in the hall! Unfortunately, what we have to discuss again are states – that has already been so many times today – from the “Fürstentum Pröll”, as the journalist of the year, Andreas Koller, called today in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”. It is true that there are morals in the area of the National School Council for Lower Austria, which are not necessarily funny, as I think Mr Schultes meant in relation to various discussions. And that the name Erwin Pröll falls so often today, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, has not to do with excessive respect for the head of state, but with the fact that we have very, very worrying conditions in the area of the country of Lower Austria and in this context especially in the field of the Council of State Schools. I would like to address the question and the answer to the question by the Minister for Agriculture, but let me say something in advance about a very topical situation. What I have here are printed e-mails that I received yesterday and today from outraged teachers. [[The speaker shows]] Background: The head of the AHS trade union, Eckehard Quin – ÖVP, no question – has worked with address material from the Educational University of Lower Austria and has unsolicited all teachers to his very personal election campaign. I would just like to say a few words about what my colleagues are writing to me. For example, colleague Halama – she said something more – I can name her name: “My indignation about it is so great that I am keenly interested in making this unscrupulous action public.” Another colleague writes: “First of all, I find it unheard of that you” – so it is a letter to Mr. Eckehard Quin – “to use my data from PH-NÖ for party advertising for the country election in NÖ. Secondly, I would like to tell you that I have never felt represented by ÖVP representatives as a teacher. Thirdly, it is your attention that, never lived in Lower Austria, I am not entitled to vote, so my data was also sloppy used to do so.” Another colleague writes: “I probably immatriculate a few years ago at PH-NÖ in the good faith that the PH deals with my data carefully. Unfortunately this is not so.” – And so on and so on. So a whole number of protests. And that is typical of this system of Lower Austria. By the way, the rector of the university has responded and has written to the Education Spokesman of the Greens in Lower Austria – that is your case, Mrs. Minister, according to this rector –: PH-online is a BMUKK software that needs to be used by universities. We do not have all the rights to do so. So we have no influence on who is picking up which addresses from the PH for which reasons. This is an example from Lower Austria. That's the moral image. And Eckehard Quin writes in this election advertisement not once that he is a candidate of the ÖVP – the word “ÖVP” does not occur at all, but he does it as it is obviously common in Lower Austria: he only writes “as a teacher and staff representative in Lower Austria”. This is an example of how to deal with situations in Lower Austria and with confidential data. Now to the question and to the answer to the question: The starting point – Mrs. Minister, you know, we have been discussing this case for years of organized involvement of teachers in Lower Austria – is an e-mail from a national school inspector who wants to form a political “information chain to the head of state”. – Literally quote. I continue to quote – this is a letter from this school inspector to directors of schools in Lower Austria – “I have your name,” she writes, “published for an internal (political) information chain to the office-leading president – which is our concern, I do not know yet. But at any rate, trust in you is behind it and connected with it, the President-in-Office expects the highest discretion." Ladies and gentlemen! These are states, as they are usual in a marginal state, but in a democracy, please, there is nothing like that to look for! I know, Mrs Minister, you don't have too great a chance to intervene. This is also reflected in your answer to the question. Also the current President, Hofrat Helm, who, as I would like to admit, has a slightly different style from his predecessor Adolf Stricker, writes: My scope of action is limited. – This is the moral image of the Austrian school system, and it shows the inefficiency of the Austrian school system: an inflated apparatus, and in the No one is responsible, no one is able to really intervene. We have received responses, and you also quote that in your reply to the question, where the responsible President seriously reinterprets this political information chain as the head of state into a “work community for the promotion of talent”. You have to break that on your tongue. Which gifts are meant, I leave to the imagination of each one of you. All of us can imagine what “talents” are required in this political information chain. But why, if one wants to set up a “work community for the promotion of talent”, the directors demand the highest level of discretion, I cannot fully understand. I assume that the spectators can't understand the whole thing either. [[Abg. Steibl: They seem to be the most important to you!]] Of course, the people in Lower Austria, Mrs Colleague, are interested in how the National School Council is concerned – unfortunately, these conditions are not everybody and every woman aware. In any case, the great advocacy that Mr Landeshupt has clearly expressed, according to your statements, is not due to the fact that he is installing pointed systems. Mrs. Minister, you will then write – and this is also a situation that is quite typical of the Austrian school system – a personal letter from the former national school inspector quoted in my request. However, the “personal letter” of the national school inspector is clearly written on the paper of the National School Council. The content may be personal, but for all the recipients of this letter it was quite clear that they received a letter from the inspector and thus a public institution, an institution which is at least formally subject to you, although we all know that the state princes in Austria unfortunately have too much influence in the school system. Mrs. Minister! Hofrat Adolf Stricker has obviously launched this political information chain. He's still an official, now in retirement. From my point of view, I also wrote this in the request, it is quite clear that, in view of such institutions, a procedure against Hofrat Stricker should be initiated. How does it look? I would have liked to know about you. How does it look in connection with the situation of sensitive data from the immigrants at the Educational University of Lower Austria? How does it look like you're investigating this thing? Will you do this or won't you? We do not need to do this in Austria as a gift promotion, ladies and gentlemen. We'll have a lot of work, even after this Sunday. We know that, and we can promise one thing: We Greens stay on it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17327	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied came to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17349	Mr President. Mr Walser! Mr President, I would like to begin with a statement of principle, because I am very important to some of the points you have referred to here, and we are very much in agreement here in fundamentals and values. First point: Neither the head of state as President of the Council of State Schools nor the President-in-Office nor individual national school inspectors and national school inspectors have the right to ask school leaders to take part in a “internal (political) information chain”! Or in order to formulate it in other words and also to address the other group of persons: It is not one of the tasks of Federal officials to take up or build up, in the course of their duties and duties for party-political information chains. It's one of those things if I can make this a little fluffy right now, two of them. And I think it's just important that we address these things clearly and clearly: Party political influence has not lost anything here, even such Party-politically motivated information services. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Haubner and Mr Markowitz on his work.]] They have addressed the situation of competence. Once again, I would also like to express my support for clear, clear federal competences in education, although at the same time I would like to point out the difficulties of implementation. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Haubner and Mr Markowitz on his work.]] We have come before the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee – but you know the details. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who turned it off? The heads of state! Reject reforms, but speculate!]] I now come to the individual points raised also in connection with the answer to the question. The national school inspector addressed by you is a federal staff member. The National School Council is responsible for the supervision of the service. That is, in the case of Mrs Mag. Ronniger is the National School Council for Lower Austria, which is responsible for supervising the service here. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Federal Authority!]] It is crucial that the Council of State Schools should first act. I cover 100 percent Your statement that, of course, we expect all employees to address their work responsibly and qualifiedly. The assessment is for the superior, and this is the National School Council for Lower Austria. There is the supervision of the service. Generally speaking, and on account of your parliamentary questions – I recall the reply to the question discussed here as well; Keywords: Birthday party at the Semmering – I have of course become active, have also published relevant information. I have also received a report from the Council of State Schools. I am critical of the person and also of the incidents. The consequences we have drawn from the Federal Ministry's service instructions – I have not had any other means of intervention – are that we have reorganised school supervision in Lower Austria in this area. ==References== In March, Dr. Kurzbauer will take care of the school in these topics, which are also addressed by you in the request. I hope that will also contribute to de-escalation. These are the measures that have been put in practice by my side and with effectiveness 1. It is also valid on 1 March. As far as the case of the data of the educational college of Lower Austria is concerned, I have heard this for the first time 8 minutes ago from you, and I will, of course, go through the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17416	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17438	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Minister has answered clearly what is to be kept from the Lower Austria system, in this case from the Pröll system, and has shown that she has reacted clearly and clearly within the framework of her possibilities. All of us in this House have been aware of the problem of Ronniger for years because of and thanks to these interventions by Mr Walser. But we also know, for good reason, that we have always discussed the issue of competence in the Constitutional Subcommittee, that the Council of State Schools is a federal authority and the head of state is at the same time the President of this Federal Authority. The President of the Council of State Schools is Pröll. Although he has an official national school council president, who also often takes part, but when it comes to, for example, the issue is – and this is also a growing point of this system – that the head of state Pröll opens a gymnasium before a election, the school gets teaching-free. This is clearly – there is no doubt – a breach of law, a disregard for his role as national school council president. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's this system that's immanent. We must therefore overcome this area! I don't know any other federal country in which it is. I know a lot of complaints, and many things didn't fit me in my home country either, when I was in opposition as an educational speaker there, but that's nowhere else. The things reported on a regular basis, which have played and played in Lower Austria, are really terrifying. I'm not a nobody's turnout, he's allowed to go back to him, but the system, the way he's made it, would have to think of a critical Christian-social, these things that happen in all areas – not just in education – and they're voting. These things belong to a secondment, otherwise we as Parliament can give up our responsibilities if we are actually led by the powerful Prince of the State at the Nasenring through Parliament or through the area. We must stop these growths! We can only do what we have decided jointly in the Constitutional Subcommittee, namely to make a clear regulation of competences. Then the criticisms of individual Members to the Minister would actually be true. But if the competent Federal Council of State Schools is poorly researched, conceals, the facts do not provide, that is, in Section III – since you have to see who is responsible – is not treated accordingly, that then the Minister cannot decide and act differently, that is certainly clear. I am therefore pleased that the presentation by Mr Walser today was much more differentiated and he also mentioned things by name. Ladies and gentlemen, for me it is quite, very important: Let us continue by trying to ensure that what the Court of Auditors wants, that what everyone responsible, IHS and all the others want, happens, that we actually perceive our competences and bring the school where it belongs. Whoever pays, creates and is also to bear the responsibility. That is why we must work together to ensure that we get all school competences centrally into federal hands. Then we can also put in place appropriate measures. That's what we need. This case clearly shows that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17492	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17513	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Today, examples that are not comprehensible, as are your e-mails, which nobody knows but you, are brought into Parliament from Lower Austria, which are neither new nor really relevant. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Should I forward it to you? You can have it! I can copy it to you!]] This will try to reinvigorate long-known and also negotiated situations, only because elections in Lower Austria are at the doorstep. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Ask at the! For two years!]] This is an attempt to move this election campaign, which takes place in the Federal State of Lower Austria, into this House. That's unnecessary, that's not all right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: “Unnecessary”?! That's not true!]] Mr Walser, you have repeatedly expressed accusations against the Lower Austrian National School Council in parliamentary questions and have received detailed answers that you simply ignore, because it is just that you fit into the Chamber because otherwise you have no control of the excellent Lower Austrian education policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Did you listen to the woman minister? Would you mind?- Oh, my God!]] You also charge all members of the Lower Austrian National School Council with your method of action and also charge the Federal Ministry of Education, Art and Culture of Inactivity – read your own request that you have made! – and you discriminate against very many very dedicated school supervisors. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: No, no! That's a premise!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: I mentioned two names!]] There is currently a restructuring in the field of school supervision in Lower Austria, which the Federal Minister has already mentioned. This is of course also a challenge, an additional challenge for the school authority. The national school councils and national school councils already have a very broad area of responsibility, which they fully demand, where they naturally have to respond quickly, competently and, above all, efficiently and offer solutions. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Don't save Mr. Pröll by the speech!]] The duties are conscious of all those who work in these areas, and they are also respected by the staff. I really want to hold on to this. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: From the staff already! It is a matter of political responsibility!]] And if in the past there have been inconsistencies that focus on a person, they will be continuously and consistently processed. They obviously try, with this debate, to beat political change in pre-election periods from an ongoing arrest procedure against the Republic – something like that in this very special case. This is improper, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: That's a premise!]] They thus throw all the staff of the Lower Austrian State School Authority into a pot. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Mr. Quin abuses data!]] They even dissuade the school directors and try to adapt them politically. That is your own, Mr Walser – you yourself are the director of a federal school or it was, you are now liberated – simply not worthy. It's just not worthy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Lower Austrian school policy can be seen. There have been numerous reforms in recent years that show success. This starts with the education compass, is about the talent check, and of course there is also a gift promotion for students. There have been numerous schooling measures. One of the most important steps, of course, was the introduction of the Lower Austrian secondary school into the regular school, whose guidelines have also been incorporated into the Federal Law. You can be quite proud of this, too, as a federal state. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Not exactly Lower Austria! - Oh, my God!]] Of course, modern school construction is being forced from the federal state of Lower Austria, which concerns the state schools and the federal schools. In Lower Austria, education policy is raised in the truest sense of the word, where our head of state Dr. Erwin Pröll is fully behind it. Investment in education is important to him – and only for one reason: because young people are an important concern in their entire personality and thus their career and educational opportunities. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: A little away from the manuscript! Let's go into the discussion! The arguments are addressed, Mrs Colleague. That's what you formulated yesterday!]] Investment in education is worthwhile for people and for the country. Due to the excellent educational opportunities at all levels in Lower Austria, starting from kindergarten, compulsory schools and universities, Niederösterreich is rightly investing in its most important potential for the future, and these are the children and the young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17745	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17767	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! To my previous speaker, as a graduate of the education system of Lower Austria, I am Waidhofener Maturant, Waidhofen an der Thaya – say Si tacuisses – No, “philosophus” is male. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Philosophus!]] “Philosopha” or “philosophica”, we say so. [[Abg. Brosz: We have to teach federal ministers daughters!]] So it would have been much better if the reading of this manuscript had been avoided, because it was so far away from what is to be debated here. You meant that it was under the dignity of Mr Walser and I know what. – Everything was possible, but it was under your dignity, Mrs. Hellerer, a woman named Ronniger, Mrs. Mag. To defend Adelinde Ronniger with the education system Lower Austria. She's not worth it! You know what that is? – This is a kind of cross-sectional matter of crime and disciplinary right. That's her! - Yes, this is a ongoing procedure. [[Abg. Hellererer: There is a ongoing procedure!]] The writing about her grudges, which she made for years and decades, until the victim had to go to early board because of burn-out, is 32 pages long. No line could be resisted. I'm talking to Dr Evelyn Mayer. Other victims, whom Col. Walser correctly called, will get into what I know that you are in favour of anger – you have to read it: “Information to my esteemed headmasters My work situation has become unbearable through constant constant accusations in media and repeated parliamentary questions." She has become unbearable! She was made unbearable? – Well, we look good in the world! It also says: “This will increase my burden by the ongoing proceedings against the Republic of Austria, in which I am adversarial intervener and witness. For this reason, Section III has arranged to protect me. ” That's incredible! She's being protected, the culprit is protected. And now she can go to early retirement. Mrs Federal Minister, I know that you have a kind of victim status in this case, so to speak, through your competence, because you do not have to answer that, but you are the Supreme Body and therefore it is a very good thing to see you in Parliament and to debate with you in the knowledge that you find all this to be contrary to it – now I would have like to say another word, but I fail to do so. The interesting thing is that this woman is obviously away from any kind of injustice. As a result, cross-sectional matter: Now we are also coming from crime, from criminal law to psychiatric consideration. A person who privately equips himself with schooling has no awareness of injustice, but still speaks great back. Interestingly – once again cross-sectional matter – says a criminal apologies at the corruption prosecutor’s office – one is never known to learn from – well, the prosecutor’s office has hired that. I apostrophic legal protection officer Dr. Strasser says that the invitation to the birthday celebration – you quoted it – does not fall into the area of the administration – is clear, so that the abuse of office according to § 302 criminal code is excruciating in so far. Passive bribery requires a connection to a concrete official business – which, of course, also goes away at a private birthday celebration. In principle, I have a completely different view, for it is as follows: If the thief steals something and goes away with the prey, it's his private property. – There is something wrong with this consideration. Anyway, I filed a new fine at the St. Pölten Procuratorate. It was not set there, but it is determined. Just a little trip to the political sphere, from crime back to the political sphere, which also has a criminal appearance or aspect. So the advertisement is treated as GZ 5 St 144/12 in St. Pölten and is also in content related to her sustainable effort, another colleague, who is by chance a liberal, to have for years prevented Krems as a school principal with the horror call: We have to stop that. It's a blue one, it can't be. – That's Dr. Hrubesch, now she's become. But it has been prevented for ten years. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Short and good: Dr. Strasser also says that if it's not criminal, it's urgently discriminating. And it is really an insult, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you have given this woman the great tribute for merits to the Republic of Austria. Here in the hall are a few honoraries – me too. I feel offended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17850	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17871	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Höllerer, you have said that you are not aware of the emails that Mr Walser has quoted. – Such documents are kindly distributed prior to a consultation of a request response. You're here. So if you had made the effort to raise this parliamentary question and answer it, they would have been familiar to you, because they are part of Parliamentary documents and not secret documents. Since you have apparently not read it, this is a good opportunity to perhaps bring you back to what it is all about. When you read this, you not only wonder how such a thing can come about, but also what unfrozenness is going on here. To come to the idea that Mrs Ronniger writes on the subject: “Information chain to the head of state” – you actually have to come to that, even if you are up to it. This already shows that one seems to feel completely in the protected space and does not develop the approach of an unrightful consciousness. This was written on a Sunday in the afternoon – okay, you can also discuss it. One then reads – the individual points are cited – and looks at the following more closely: "But at least trust in you is behind it, and with it the President-in-Office expects the highest discretion." That you write this – you really wonder: Which country do we live in? And what else is possible there? “if anyone wants to leave – please send me a short e-mail” What else is this than the clear attempt to raise a party political chain in a ministry or in an administration that has nothing to do with the tasks of that authority? Maybe you'd have the mumm to come down here and say: Yeah, that's wrong. I don't defend that. - What are you doing? You come down here and tell my colleague Walser he's padded to the entire National School Council. That's exactly what you said. It is Your Majesty's policy – we know it from Lower Austria, too – any form of showing criticism in Lower Austria, any form of showing unbearable malaise is in the eyes of the ÖVP Majesty Police. That's it. Country in which we live in 2013, and it is really sad that you are still on this status. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Perhaps you can also comment on a second point, not now, but you did not refer to it earlier. Some of us – I do not know if other political groups have also received them – have received various e-mails concerning the procedure of Mr Quin. He is the top AHS teacher, who is a candidate on the Lower Austrian national list of the ÖVP, as a senior trade unionist, apparently at the same time studying at the PH, because of this function as a student has access to the email addresses there, who collects a mass mail – all this will be clear that this is not permitted with all data protection regulations – and in this mass email is for preference votes. Do you know what advocating it? So apart from making the big educational policy there now, he writes in this mail: They can give preferred votes, regardless of party preference. You know as well as I do that this is a call for constituency. It cannot be granted a preference vote in Lower Austria regardless of the party preference. Any preferred vote for Mr Quin, even if you check the FPÖ or the Greens, is a vote for the ÖVP. What Mr Quin has yet to do with this is shambles. For this there is § 263 of the Criminal Code, the prosecutor's office will have to review it. You also have to come to the chuzpe once, simply go here, collect the email addresses and thus operate plumpe election advertising! And this is the system that has been in existence in Lower Austria all the time. And because it's just right and it's come up today – you always think, you've already experienced everything until the next case comes –: The chairman of the Lower Austrian State Election Authority? - Erwin Pröll. No one should have wondered. Erwin Pröll can't do this alone, but he now has a deputy to do it. This is Mr. Landtags President Penz. What is the idea of Mr. Landtags President Penz for next Sunday? . He is today issuing the decree that all election results in Lower Austria are not to be published before 5 p.m., so that all parties other than the ÖVP will receive no election results before 5 p.m. He states that, contrary to the right to vote and against the provisions, all the constituencies in the municipalities are subject to silence, so that before 5 p.m., only one party in Lower Austria is allowed to know what has happened in the constituencies. And at 5 p.m., the ORF is coming and making a bill. Wonderful! Whether the ORF gets the data before, this is another chapter. What they calculate if they do not have data is also interesting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hell of a bitch.]] So apparently we keep going. Now we are so far that, in a electoral procedure – one can already opt for the National Council election – when the bill is published, everyone seems to have seen nothing yet. The Minister of the Interior is there, has the data, but all the other political groups do not have the data. What you are bringing up in Lower Austria is truly unbearable! That's actually for generating.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17966	Another speech by Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e17987	Mr President. High house! Mr Fichtenbauer, I would like to comment briefly on this because you have referred to the honour mark. This is really just an opinion simply to explain the course and not to justify it. I just want to explain this from my side. In March 2010, the National School Council for Lower Austria applied for the award of the Grand Honorary Mark for Merit for the Republic of Austria at the Ministry. The resolution of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany took place on 10 October. ==References====External links== November 2010 – here the request is not correct – is handed over by the National School Council for Lower Austria. At the ceremony, the head of state was also present. I would just like to stress that I personally do not have any points of reference in 2010. I am now looking at the situation and the person through the knowledge I have, as I said earlier in my opinion on the statements made by Mr Walser, very critically and have already, as you have correctly estimated, already another, more differentiated opinion. I just wanted to make this clear, 'cause it was a little bit as if I had given her the order yesterday. So that's a little time back.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18022	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18043	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a BZÖ delegate, I am certainly not suspected of intervening in the Lower Austrian election campaign, but what is present here again, what has been researched and shown here, is really immense. It is immense that an official, a pedagogy, does these things, builds up a peak service, a chain, a political information chain, a so-called gift chain, or whatever she calls it, and does things that are simply unacceptable. Two years ago we also discussed the birthday celebration of this woman's national school inspector. Then, I think, it has subsequently given you a decree. There are really people who are not worthy of improvement and who, as has already been mentioned, have a misbehavior and have no rightful consciousness. Since I am personally not so familiar with the case, I would just like to say in this context that this is also a moral picture of the reconciling of party political influence, of party political power, of surveillance, and, as I said, of lack of awareness of injustice. That's something we have in the school system of often. In Lower Austria it is certainly particularly strong, but that does not mean that there is no such thing in other federal states. It's all an open secret: If you have the right party book in any federal state, then you are called to a leading post, then you can get up to whether you are red or black. If you don't fit into the scheme, it won't happen. That's what we all know. Of course, I like to hear it again and again, and there must be a reform in the school administration. Reform proposals have been under way for over three years. I just remember our discussion with the educational people's desire, where we were all of the same opinion that party politics must go out of school, out of the school system. [[Abg. New builder: She's out everywhere!]] I think – and I mean the school system in particular now, because it is ultimately at the expense of our children, if we have to deal with such things constantly and also suffer from those who do the right work, who do good work, whether this is officials, officials or educators – that these black sheep can really ruin a school system. Mrs Bundesminister, I am very glad that you have said today so clearly that party-political agitation or party-political influence may not have place. Just, we'll hear it inside, but if that's what everybody hears outside, it's another question. You may also have to release a decree from the Federal Ministry here, so that it will eventually also go into the heads. I believe that it is only possible if we make fundamental reforms. It has already been mentioned: The competence belongs to the Federation, and not to the countries. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I remember, just Mr Pröll said a few months ago that he wanted the countries to take over the duties of education. Well, servas! If we did, we would have more such cases or many such cases or just such cases. [[Abg. List: Only those!]] I am also in favour of the abolition of national school councils in the current form as well as district school councils. Nor can it be that the College of the National School Council is party-political, depending on the outcome of the last country election. That should be abolished. For what reason is this to be done? [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] Are party politicians better education experts? This is where those who understand something from the school are supposed to be speaking. It also belongs to school supervision in the form we now have, abolished and, of course, granted more autonomy to the school sites so that they can make the decisions for the staff there and not see everything through the party glasses. I think if we don't do something soon, then such practices will continue to be common in our school system and then we can only dream of having a modern school system at some point. But we don't want to. I hope that there will still be a lot of movement about these reforms.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18108	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18129	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We have heard a lot about Mrs Ronniger and we have just talked intensively. I really wonder what a person needs to do to get him to go in early retirement. Mrs Hellerer, I really don't understand when you come out now and try to defend it. [[Abg. Hellererer: I didn't defend her!]] – You didn’t defend her, you probably don’t know her anymore, as did Ernst Strasser. But you can't forget one thing now: They came out here and said it's all known for a long time, you don't need to talk about it, we forget that. [[Abg. Hellererer: I didn't say that!]] We're probably only doing this because of the Lower Austria election on Sunday. This lady is worthy of honor. – There is a beautiful picture of the award of the Golden Honorary Sign of the Republic, with your Prince of the State, before which you all have awe. [[The speaker holds a photo of the award of an honorary mark of the Republic to the previously mentioned power. Ronniger in the height, on which he can also be seen, among other things, the head of state Dr. Pröll.]] The highest good are our children, and we all wish our children had the best teachers. Now I am glad – as I congratulate you too – that the initial salaries have risen in the law of teacher service, in the law of remuneration, I think this is great and I very much welcome it. Just in view of what has already happened to this lady and how often we have discussed it, I would really like, Mrs Minister – I think it is well lifted up with you – to see that it is being clarified here and that this is really going to be done. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It can't be that this lady is still being rewarded and allowed to go in early retirement! I just remember the birthday celebration to which Mrs Franz then argued so great that it was a tourist school and that the young people could have served there, so they would have learned something for her internship. This is more than anachronistic, Mrs. Colleague. At the time, they found that this does not work at all. Here you really have to put on the lever so that something like this doesn't happen anymore. That is why we say that politics belongs outside the schools. We need the best teachers and the best school directors, and that's where the performance is supposed to count. It can't be that in a red federal state, a red director becomes a black man and in a black federal state, and they make up all of this. But I think we can find a basis for discussion here with the Federal Minister so that this will simply not happen in the future; I would really wish. So much happened in schools. You think of the emails, that's a privacy history. Here belongs in all cases clarified, and the thing belongs indicated. It may not be that a person simply steals the e-mail addresses and then runs election advertising. That's all coming out of our schools. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is why I am very glad that we are going to clarify this – whether that was the FPÖ at the time or now the Greens. Mr Walser! You'll find a partner in us. We want these abuses to be resolved, no matter what the state, and we want to ensure that something like that never happens again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18202	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[18:27:43]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18226	We're back at the 2. Agenda item. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18251	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! They probably represent the Minister of Science, who now seems to need the final speakers of the debate no longer; no matter what. We were at the university's access restrictions. I agree with the Minister when he says that the universities' capacities are limited. We all know that. The question is: What are the possibilities for fighting it? The first is to cover the number of students, and the second option is to expand the capacities. Since you are here right now, Mrs Minister, I ask you: Can you imagine that we have the same thing in the classroom, that the capacities are limited, and then you say that we now need entrance exams, for example for the elementary school or for the secondary school or the primary school? – No one can imagine that, but in the tertiary sector, that’s all at once. I know the SPÖ wants to expand the capacity and it wants more students to study at the universities, but it now agrees with the first variant, the cover. I don't understand at all. I don't know, listen to what ÖVP said today! This is quite clear in the direction of ceilings, everywhere, in all areas of study – Mrs Franz has literally said that. Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager spoke of the limited number of seats in Parliament. The Minister says the same. It goes in the direction that borders are drawn everywhere. Why do I need a pilot phase now? Because of me, we just got it. But evaluation can only result in one thing: The evaluation will show that thousands of students cannot study what they wanted to study, and that they either have not studied at all or lost a year, because then there is a year in between before they can try it elsewhere. And if they should be taken there, which is unlikely, it is also sometimes exhausted, then there is also a ceiling. With one word, it goes quite clearly in the direction of limiting the possibilities for students. And this is an educational elite thinking from which we distance ourselves. We're for the second variant. We are in favour of expanding capacity and saving where we can save. There I am, we have a proposal. The Academy of Fine Arts has informed us that there are two management positions required by law, one for the painting gallery and one for the copper engraving cabinet. I don't think that has to be immediately and no one should be terminated – this could be facilitated by the law so that it can also be occupied with a person. That is why we have tabled an amendment which could do the best we can. The application is as follows: The National Council wants to decide: The government template concerning a federal law amending the University Law 2002 as amended by the report of the Scientific Committee (2180 d.b.) is amended as follows: Following Z. 2a is inserted: ‘2a. § 39 (4) reads: (4) Only persons with relevant training and correspondingly high professional qualifications may be appointed as heads of the painting gallery and the Kupferstichkabinett for a period of five years. Re-orders are permitted. The director or head of the painting gallery shall bear the function name ‘director’ or ‘director’. ==References====External links== be appointed as head of the Kupferstichkabinett. If a person in an active public service relationship with the federal government has a service relationship as a director or as a member of the public service. Head of the Painting Gallery and/or the Kupferstichkabinett with the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna, she is not allowed to work for the duration of this service against the absence of the terms of reference.” I'm curious if You agree with this concrete proposal for savings and thank me.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18327	The amendment tabled has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18385	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18407	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In the end, the present novelle of the University Law describes a possible entry into capacity-oriented, student-related university funding, based on a high level in so-called mass subjects. The gradual increase of 95 professorships is also very positive in order to achieve an approximation of the fields of study concerned with international support indicators. It is completely new, which has not yet been addressed, the much more precise division of the university budget into the sub-areas of teaching, research or development and development of the arts, as well as infrastructure and clinical additional effort. The gradual implementation is accompanied by an ongoing evaluation, determined by a still to be defined – that is a very bulky word – total Austrian university development plan. This includes the priority educational and scientific objectives, the quality assurance objectives, as well as the proportion of graduates to be decided – and this is also completely new – by the Federal Minister's regulation in agreement with the main committee of the National Council. ==References====External links== ==References== Until then, the proposed service agreements for the period 2016 to 2018 should be known. In many opinions on the draft, a lot of questions are raised by very many technical arguments. This is a positive indication of the fact that we are already having a more intense and broader discussion with those concerned about further development. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18437	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18458	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! We are dealing here today with a novel that seems to be small in lines or in text, but at the end, as I mean, not only a paradigm change, but also a fundamental change in orientation at universities. We are not going to do this without further delay, but I will also speak for it. Before I go into detail, I come to the lessons. If I have listened and recorded to Mrs. Cortolezis-Schlager well, she has essentially said that a long-planned novelle is now present, there has been a government agreement on it, there is a system change. As always, it has also justified: There are restrictions on access everywhere! – A small remark: There is also not as much taxes and taxes everywhere as we do, perhaps we should also get closer to the level there, which would also help the Austrian to think in this direction. Then you hear the reading of Mrs Kuntzl, Group spokesperson of the SPÖ, who says: Pilot project in five fields of study, the courses are slightly expanded, the number of study places will not be reduced – these are all quotations of today's speech – everyone should be able to start his or her studies, the pilot experiment needs to be evaluated, all of this has been discussed for a long time and in detail. It may be that this was actually planned in the coalition for a long time, was discussed for a long time, and much more. Then one hears the Minister of State, daughter, who essentially says: A good compromise between two extreme positions! - It's okay. Then he says – and that was new to me, and I am an attentive observer, including the policy of science leaders; Mrs Kuntzl has probably already known this, but until now has not been made public – in 2010, Pröll, then Vice-chanc and ÖVP chief, and Faymann and the University Editors' Conference at a summit were able to find what is happening today. At least for me it was new that there was such an agreement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kuntzl.]] You certainly knew and carried it. I know how difficult it is sometimes when you sit in a government and the party leaders – You will not have been there at the time of the agreement – agree on something and you will have to learn it afterwards and then start rowing back, Mrs Kuntzl. That has been the same on this point. In 2012 there was then extensive negotiations with the coalition partner, says the Federal Minister. This was an important step towards financing the university. - So far, so good. Now there is a law on debate, which ultimately implements nine paragraphs in the 2002 UG, from § 14a to § 14i. Now I only read a small section of what in § 143 para. 30, that is to say, when it comes to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and then I ask the Federal Minister how anyone should be able to carry out what you decide today as a standard address. I don't think that's what most people here know, because it's been silent to you, too. There was no one speaker commenting on this, there were only indications from the liberals. – It reads: “At § 143 para. The following paragraph 30 will be added: 31 to 34:’, para. 31 comes as a new paragraph and reads: “§ 143 para. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== § 66 para. 1, para. 1a and para. ==References====External links== In December 2015, it was announced that it would not be possible for the Commission to adopt the measures necessary to comply with this Decision. The Federal Minister or the Federal Minister has the impact” – and so on. An evaluation report should be submitted in December – on 31 December. It is already out of force on December. The next line continues: Abs. 32, zu § 12: The §§ 14a to 14g – these are the ones we re-implement – in the version of the Federal Law that we have to decide today are either until 31. To change the obligation on March 2014 or, if no changes are made until then, to come back to force. The next paragraph states that §§ 14g to 14i – which are the remaining – are in the version of the law to be adopted today until 31. March – that is 12 months, I just want to remember – to change. Should no relevant changes be made by this date, they shall cease to apply. In the next paragraph, there will again be an exemption provision with 31. In December 2015, an evaluation report should be submitted to it again in December. Let us now do this again in the near future: It is implemented that the objectives of capacity-oriented university funding – now German I am, Minister – are set out in § 14a, on 31 December. 3rd. In 2014 they will be abandoned if they are not changed. Basic principles of capacity-oriented university funding come with 31. 3rd. 2014 out of power. Even the definitions in § 14c come with 31. 3rd. 2014 out of power. The overall Austro-Austrian university development plan, for which § 14d sets out what has to be done, comes with 31. ==References== The composition of the global budget – which is § 14e – comes with 31. March 2014 has already been out of power again. The implementation of capacity-oriented study-related university funding will take place at 31. ==References====External links== § 14g also enters into force in March 2014. And § 14h, which concerns the access arrangements which are being reintroduced – where Mrs. Cot says five study areas are affected, as I come to the point – comes into effect on 31 December. In December 2015, it was announced that it would not be possible for the Commission to adopt the measures necessary to comply with this Decision. The entry-level phase will be reformed after it has been reformed twice in the last four years. The universities are moaning at administration because they have to write permanent new curriculum. The student no longer knows himself, is permanently in new orders. They are now being re-regulated, but if not until 31. In December 2014, they will be changed in a year, and they will come out of power again. That's to say, either they're coming back, or they're coming out of power, then the old one comes back. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What kind of law do we decide?- Oh, my God! Where is the degree of determination that we actually need?- Oh, my God! Now I come to the detail. Five courses of study are affected? – I can assure you – request from the Federal Minister, all members of the committee, 28 study areas are affected. [[Abg. May. Kuntzl: Five courses of study!]] 28 courses of study! You can talk about it. We already have 70 courses of study which have access restrictions. From now on we have 98 – since the mouse does not bite a thread – of 237. 40 percent of all students are affected. These are the naked numbers. In reality, you have also decided on a committee statement that the Minister of State should specify what is coming. There will be more, it will not be any less, Mrs Kuntzl! If you stay in power, there will be no fewer courses of study with access restrictions, but more because there are already 98. And that's it! Above all, the law of one of the ÖVPs has succeeded in pursuing a goal that has been pursued by the ÖVP since 2000 – we have always prevented it from happening – namely that access restrictions are not only possible, but that they are available from the basic principle and may in future be exceptions. [[Abg. May. Kuntzl:... has there been none?]] Today it's different: Free access to higher education is the basic principle, and exceptions are regulated. Now I'm not referring to the art universities that were art universities where we took this package. Perhaps we should return to universities and universities and meet different conditions of access there. But Mr Karlsböck has also carried out what happens to access schemes when one often allows devices to introduce such a thing in excess. I have repeatedly pointed out that there are also ideological barriers. This is always apologies: There is no such thing at universities! and, and, and. I'm telling you what universities say in their statutes and in procedural regulations. I believe that universities are willing to guide their selection criteria in the future in this direction too. At least you have to warn about it, act against it, and introduce it to one bar. When I look at what the soil culture – this is just an example among many – in its procedural arrangement for the renewal of the academic degree for diploma engineers and doctors on the ground culture in the Senate on 25 May. On 4 April 2012 the following decision was taken for the award of honorary titles: That's what they've arranged. The implementation shall be arranged by the Senate together with the Rectorate. They have decided to implement it, and this is how someone can receive an honorary title, and so on and so on. In the last paragraph, it is not surprising for me, for that is often the spirit that reigns there, in the Abs. 6 in Section 1 of the implementing rules: The Senate Office has received an opinion from the documentation archive of the Austrian resistance, in short called DÖW, on the applications for the award of honorary doctorates or diploma engineering titles. What's the documentation archive for an academic claim, please? – At the time of the award of titles, mind is asked. Mr. Federal Minister, maybe you don't know, then look at it! How is that done? – I have such a thick book, that is, a manual of right-wing extremism. It's easy to get in there, some people. I'm not in there; maybe I should complain because I'm not in there yet. But if you're asked if you give such a dignity – keyword: Documentation archive – then it might be like that. I'm just saying who's in there at the documentation archive. This is not only true of the liberals, as one likes to imagine. It is already Harald Vilimsky inside or Edith Haller, a very feared MP in pension, for example. That's what I'm calling it. But there are also people like Christof Zernatto, who are called names. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] Or head of state Leopold Wagner. Or the comradeship association generally and every functional at all, called and discredited there due to ideological valuation. Or Dr. Alfred Maleta! First, Second, Third President – for 14 years he was here in the House, ÖVP President, Member of the National Council. If you ask the documentation archive if you want to get any titles, it's probably called: No, he has an evil mind! You come in very easily. We all know what this is like when a “communist tar organization” – that is to say, judgment 1998, judicially ex-judicated in Austria – is introduced, a “private-stasi”, where the then head of Neugebauer has also developed the predicate “Denunziant” and may be called “Denunziant” because of this highest court judgment. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And his successors are no different who, of course, have an academic claim. You can only see the doctor or lecturer Peham – or what is his name still different? – who runs around Austria with a tarn name and is a huge expert when it comes to approaching others whether or not they are mature for any honorary title or doctoral title at the BOKU. He'll be questioned then, and much more. That's what I'm saying: We must be careful that we produce too many instruments, where selection criteria are met, which are often carried out very much after the thought. And these are just examples, there are a lot more at Austria's universities. It will strike up to the students. That's the danger we're facing! Then I prefer to join the principle of free access to higher education. We have free access to higher education, which already has an access limitation. Mrs Kuntzl, I was always of the opinion that we have the same starting point in this question – and I am particularly asking the SPÖ – namely: The Matura is the access requirement to the university! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Perhaps also a study qualification exam or teaching with Matura, similar skills, since we are already for all this to exist, but essentially there is an access. Now comes a new one, which, however, will soon come out of force if it is not changed again. The principle is norm and much more. Who guarantees us, please, that not according to mind? Maybe you? The individual Senate? The rectors? Are they supposed to give the guarantee if they're under pressure? – They may gain an expertise from the documentation archive, and then you may not be allowed to study if you are no longer worthy, and much more. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: As in the GDR!]] At least this danger is not to be excluded and occurs. You can nod with your head – in the case where the first liberal or the first social democrats fall in such a procedure by the rust or their attitude, you will be standing here, your whole group, and naturally excited. Right, and you'll have a partner by the side. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... my family!]] Yes, you can blame my mind. You've been doing that for many, many years. It's not a problem either if you do. I'm just saying one thing: I may have a mind that you don't like, and you might call them bad. But you won't be able to kill a mind. Here you can act like a standman! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There must also be someone in this republic who is committed to fair, promising, and equal conditions. We have seen what happens at the University of Medicine in Vienna, if you make yourself overwhelming gender thoughts. No one from your ranks has yet come to this idea. Veterinary medicine also has access restrictions. There, 25 percent are tested in a personal conversation, and if they are found worthy, they are allowed to study veterinary medicine. That's how it stands, I said it a little salopper now. But this is a conversation, and if he is good or has good relations or the right attitude, I say at this point, then he will be allowed to study it, and others will not. I didn't hear you yelling! There are 80 percent of the first-time women who just get through. Where's the balance with 50 to 50? Where is the Federal Minister who is finally demanding that there should also be a number of men who are allowed to study veterinary medicine like women in the future, and much more? [[Abg. May. Kuntzl: What does the application look like?]] That doesn't make anyone, and I worry if you always see everything unilaterally through your party-political glasses. Here is a really lazy compromise, which at the end is also apparent, has been concluded, otherwise you would not have made outlaws! Like many laws, Mrs Kuntzl, you have already decided in this House or how many were you against where you could read: [[Abg. May. Kuntzl: This is a pilot project!]] We let something enter into force, and in one year, if we do not renovate it, it automatically goes out of power!Unknown term type: "%s".? How often does that happen? Why do universities have to do this test gallop? Why are the test tubes? Why do you have to administer this to death? They assume some numbers of students, need-oriented and much more. Who measures the need? – care conditions are used. If I address the question to the Federal Minister as to what side work of teaching staff at Austria's universities is going to be, then he cannot answer me! We know that in sub-areas of studies, the teaching staff has been approved by 50 percent of secondary activities in the service period and it also exercises very much in the clinical field at the medical universities. If you want to improve the care relationship there, you only need to delete these side activities, and you have a hundred percent better care relationship. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you can't do that! You prefer to go to the screw and turn with the students: If we have too few full-time equivalents, we need fewer students – so that all of them can meet their secondary jobs! The Federal Minister has no knowledge of what the secondary employment situation of the teaching staff at Austria's universities looks like, but makes provision for care. And then he talks only with the government and coalition partner, but he talks with the other stakeholders, with the other political groups in the House for a minute! At the beginning of December, the draft ministerial draft will be sent in review. ==References== December, shortly before Christmas, the results arrive, the deadline expires. In early January, after the holiday, the decision comes to the Council of Ministers. Then it will be sent to the House, and a month later we decide here after we have already received a UG-2002-Novelle from you three months before – but not that! That's where I ask you: Why do the universities have to suffer this fate? And why is there a minister who wants this out of principle because he wants to bring about a paradigm change in his term of office, at least in time? – That's enough for him, he thinks. I'm telling you, the universities can't plan, the students can't plan. It is at the expense of the students, it is about equal opportunities for all students, and that is not fair! This law therefore belongs to further negotiations, and therefore we have also submitted a referral request.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18632	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the votes. First of all, we have to vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate to refer the draft law to the Scientific Committee once again in 2142 of the supplements relating to a federal law amending the University Law in 2002 to a sign. – It does not find a majority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the draft law in 2142 of the Supplements. Mr Greenewald, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional request. First, we are voting on the supplementary proposal mentioned, then on the draft law as it stands. Mr Grünewald, fellow Members, tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new Z 2a. I would ask those Members who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – It does not find a majority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I would ask those Members of the House who advocate a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We'll come to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this draft, I would ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. The vote will now be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Markowitz, fellow Members, on 'To ensure transparent European research funding'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – It does not find a majority. The application is rejected. [[18:55:10]] 3rd. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment No 2189/A(E) by Mr Mag. Birgit Schatz, colleagues and colleagues concerning public quality database for compulsory internships (2181 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment No 2205/A(E) by Mr Mag. Birgit Schatz, colleagues on anchoring quality standards for compulsory internships in study plans (2182 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18752	We now come to points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. It is the first Mrs. Dr. Winter to report on the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18779	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen-Collegine Treasure, I have a very personal message for You: I was allowed to refer to your two motions for resolutions, on the one hand with the quality database and on the other hand with the quality standard, recently at a meeting of students and middle schoolers. I have to say: One of the rulers then rose and said: Ah, Mrs. Mag. Honey, how are you? – I have allowed myself to say that you are a mother. I want to give you all the good personally, and we are very happy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, Mrs Mag. Honey, I would like to say that the FPÖ is particularly pleased when it sees that people who criticize the ideology, the mother image and the women's image of FPÖ come up with sometime that it is perhaps a facet of being a woman to become a mother. We are all very proud of this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the President-in-Office of the Council considers that the health status of a colleague should not be discussed, I would like to say, please: Pregnancy is not a disease! And if we needed information about it, I'd say: Let us ask Mr Diplômé Stöger. In this context, Minister Däderle, I should like to ask you: What does this “diplômé” mean? Our group would be very interested in getting information. Until now, we have only received significant explanations about this. We would very much like to know what Mr Stöger has been particularly excellent at this, or what special characteristics he had to bring with him. On the two motions for resolutions, Mrs Mag. Honey, you actually held a rather fiery plea in committee. Unfortunately, you could not inflame the fire of enthusiasm in the SPÖ and in the ÖVP there, so your requests were unfortunately rejected. You are right, on the one hand, and on the other hand we have voted against, because – and I can easily justify this – there is a lot of positive and right thought in these requests. These mandatory practices and the whole matter of these mandatory practices simply need to be regulated by law. It cannot be assumed that the students – they are actually the spiritual elite of Austria – in compulsory internships almost as, let us say, the slaves of the 21st century. ==References== There are communications from the EU. Although we are not Eurocrats, we are absolutely opposed to the Euro dictatorship, in this case we could almost befriend the introduction of appropriate standards, both social law and labour law. I was very often accommodated in the fact that relatively few problems could be identified for students who have practised abroad within the framework of the ERASMUS study. I think you don't have to reinvent the wheel all the time, maybe we should take instructions and find a basis for it, and also introduce or think about the relevant legal provisions. Erasmus of Rotterdam and the Science Committee, which is very well matched, I would therefore like to ask you a question, Mr Minister, as a conclusion of my remarks in this context: How many times does the will look through the window before the act goes through the gate? This is our mission to you, Mr Minister: to introduce appropriate regulations here.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18848	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18870	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The 2011 student social survey shows that 23 percent of students complete at least one compulsory internship in the course of their studies. And you hear and marvel, almost a quarter of these internships are completed abroad – exactly where there are no problems. I think there are many internships in which there are no real problems. It is not right to pretend that every internship is bad and that companies are very bad and that students would be exploited. I'd like to say that apologise. An internship is a good way for students to gain an insight into a future field of work and experience. On the other hand, it also has the advantage of getting to know good, motivated interns, so that they may later be employed as employees. Unfortunately, yes – we have already spoken about it – there are black sheep. There are companies that use interns as cheap employees to view them as cheap employees. In addition, it is also known that there are too few traineeships. If we had enough internships, then the topic of “black sheep” would probably not be such a problem, because then that would be done by itself. It is therefore important to win companies offering high-quality internships. I would like to doubt whether these two Greens' requests can be made with additional regulations and Swassy labour law formulations. It could happen exactly the opposite, namely that much fewer companies are willing to employ trainees. That is why we reject these two requests. This does not mean, however, that no further work needs to be done to improve the situation of trainees, that additional companies need to be found, that companies need to be motivated to create more internships.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18913	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e18934	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that the rejection of the two requests once again gives me the opportunity to discuss the subject in itself throughout the plenary session and to discuss the problems that exist in this context. What's this about? . I would like to do so, so to speak, for all those who have not already attended the scientific committee of the debate. In principle, the issue of “practice” must be distinguished between two problem groups. There are on the one hand the so-called graduate practices – graduates with great “I”. This is about the fact that highly qualified then already academics do not manage to get into the labour market on a regular basis and just hang out from one internship – usually poor or not paid at all – to the next. So that's the problem circle of graduates' practices. This is not about these applications, but about another area, namely the compulsory practices that need to be completed in the course of training. It is true that there has been a massive increase in the number of compulsory internships in recent years, which is because more and more curriculums and study plans provide for such compulsory internships. It became more and more and more, and all this became increasingly complex. On the other hand, however, we have a legal situation that is completely antique and no longer meets these requirements. I would like to give another example, which I have already explained in the Committee, where this becomes quite clear: On the one hand, we have prescribed a certain number of hours in the study plans – for example, 300 hours of internship – but on the other hand, the legal framework for the term “practice” states that no specific working time should be required. In other words, there is a discrepancy between working conditions and what the study plans want. It's clear: We just need action. We also have the legislative need to provide modern framework conditions under which fair internships can take place. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is unfortunate that, although we are slowly approaching the problem definition, the government parties are not acting on this issue. But we Greens remain on it, and that is why there are again these two applications which were in the Scientific Committee this time. What was that about? – Just for the demand for a clear law – the title doesn’t matter, but we call it the Intern training law – which clearly defines what is an internship. This could prevent practitioners from being exploited, but it could also ensure the quality assurance that I am so important in the completion of internships. What does this have to do with the Scientific Committee? – Unfortunately, it is so far that universities in particular do not care very much about the internships of their students. In other words, although they require that they be completed, they hardly support those concerned in finding a suitable internship place, nor do they care about the quality of the internship that is being completed. I'm of the opinion that this has to change. Definite standards of internships should already be fixed in the study plans. In other words, the university should specify the quality of an internship so that it is accepted. The next point is – which has already been mentioned in part by the previous speakers – it needs advice at the universities, where on the one hand, information about the legal framework, rights/commitments in connection with internships is provided, but also support is provided in finding suitable internships. The third is a database in which all compulsory internships are to be gradually registered, so that it is clear what can actually be learned there. Through the database, however, there is also the possibility that students, even graduates of internships, can rate them: Was that helpful for my studies now? Was I taken advantage of? - Or whatever. Such a database certainly makes sense and is especially comprehensive, in contrast to the only punctually awarded seal approaches that we already have. Ladies and gentlemen! You have already heard some of it today: It is precisely the same that we are approaching the definition of the problem where we want to achieve what we want to achieve, especially in the paths, the measures, we are not yet so far. The Minister has said that he would also like to look at this subject a little more closely. I hope that in the foreseeable future we may once have opportunity to explain this in real detail on an appointment, because I have the impression that you are interested in a constructive work that I would like to offer. In so far as: Well, these requests have now been rejected by you – at least by the government parties – but I think that in the matter, we have nevertheless taken a step further. And with the next requests, I say: Get to the next round!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19029	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19050	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We know that more and more students are doing internships, be it mandatory internships or voluntary internships. In particular, so-called compulsory internships are in the foreground in vocational education schools, in the vocational colleges and in the educational universities. In recent years, however, these have also increased in numbers at universities. I mean, these internships are just not being evaluated enough. In order to ensure the quality of training and sustainability, more mandatory compulsory internships should be offered and carried out at vocational schools as well as at universities and universities. This is particularly so as soon as possible after the start of a study, because this will allow students to quickly identify whether the chosen course of study is appropriate for them after the course of study, and may also have a good opportunity to change their course of study more quickly. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] In recent years, ladies and gentlemen, so-called atypical employment has also often occurred. These are jobs in which interns are sometimes seen as replacement workers, with less or less in part no payment at all. It is also necessary to say that they are largely not socially insured and often only notice this abuse in retrospect. In any event, these developments must be stopped. The Austrian high school is also known for this problem. Surveys by ÖH showed that 43 percent of students at universities have already completed at least one internship, 15 percent of them a corresponding compulsory internship, and 60 percent of these 15 percent of compulsory internships have been unpaid. – That, I think, is also something that has been corrected. The social unit of the ÖH and the workers' chamber have developed the quality seal internship. It is about how we can help improve the situation in the future. I think that the quality seal of the ÖH and the two Green Group resolutions are a step in the right direction, but we are too short. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Treasure]] I therefore believe that, for this reason, we do not currently agree with the motions for resolutions. We, the legislator, have to carry out this task. To create mandatory quality criteria for internships, ministries, social partners, pupils' representatives, students' representatives should be placed at a table. I would also like to give up some thoughts on a solution. I think there must be more mandatory internships – binding in the study plans of the technical universities, universities – and also clearly defined objectives for internships, but also clearly defined working hours. I think there should be no more internships in the future that won't be paid. It should also be considered that the trainees are socially insured, up to – and I want to balance this – that the time of the internship should also be taken into account for retirement periods. Furthermore, there should be mandatory evaluations and financial incentives for firms offering internships. Ladies and gentlemen. The internship is an essential integral part not only of education but also of tertiary training. Among other things, I also see the internship as an important step towards securing the economic and research location of Austria. We know that elitist training is mainly carried out in vocational schools and in tertiary education. – Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19123	The next speaker is Mr Deputies List. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19145	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Public quality database for compulsory internships and anchoring of quality standards for compulsory internships in curriculums: These are interesting topics that we need to assess very differentiatedly. In terms of content, however, they must be assessed internationally at least in the EU context. We are seeking an EU-wide system for ensuring the quality of internships. This regulation makes sense because more and more young people are choosing to gain experience abroad. The intentions of these two applications can undoubtedly be contributing to the international strengthening of the Austrian university space, while at the same time achieving the highest quality criteria: These are all the objectives that you, Minister of Education, have set out in the Black Higher Education Plan. It is incomprehensible, therefore, that the discussion is so lean and that a possible increase in the quality of both parties is blocked. The debate again confirms that, as before, the University Law, SPÖ and ÖVP are also in the field of science, and here in concrete terms in these two applications, real objectors. Black and red have long failed in science policy. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Stop now!]] The logical consequence, Mr Federal Minister, and you know that about red and black, is, of course, the pleite in the ranking of universities. The only university in the field, the University of Vienna, recently took 23 places. These are very, very bad notes for you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, daughters, because you are primarily responsible for this crash. They are frustrated in office and can be performed by SPÖ on the gangband. So it is, you know, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Oh, that's it?]] – No objections, it is indeed so! Mr. Federal Minister, our call: Cremble the sleeves up and bring Austria's universities back to the top field! You'll stay for a few months. In order to achieve this goal, you need to quickly deal with the 40 drawerised applications of the opposition. 40 applications with interesting proposals are constantly and repeatedly dragged away with dubious arguments. Among these are our answers – the BZÖ replies – to the crisis of universities: the BZÖ applications concerning tuition fees or our demand regarding the university location Austria – all examples that show that this Federal Government has long ceased its work for Austria. The Federal Government has clearly failed in the field of science! You, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, are only more prepared for the 2013 National Council election. In September, the Sovereign, the elector, will surely salt up the soup!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19198	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Markowitz is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19219	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Schatz, we will vote in favour of this request. It's time for something to happen in this regard anyway. Because you can't forget one thing: A mandatory practice, as it was introduced at the time, has something good. In other words, students are obliged to participate in the world of work and then later have the opportunity to get a job in this company where they have completed the internship. This is not always the case, of course, because I am quite right in giving you, but the basic idea at that time has gone in this direction, and we can actually support that. What happened next? – I am not saying that it was a exploitation of young people. If a compulsory internship is in the school or curriculum, then the student or the student must fulfil the internship, that is quite clear. The companies then handled it in such a way that nothing was paid and in part the hourly regulation was not clearly regulated. That's why we support it. We say, okay, if good work is done by young people who want to go to a job top motivated, it should also be so that it is paid accordingly. Now that's not going to be the big money in an internship, we know. We heard from my previous speaker that the pension should be charged. This is quite difficult to imagine when I do two or three months of internship, that I somehow charge this to the pension. But in principle it is going in the right direction. The training requirements are clearly regulated and the hours are also regulated. If there are overtimes, then these are extra paid, in addition to a fixed wager – that should be a flat rate; so I would imagine that. I think we are all well advised to find a clean solution so that this flawed side-taste of an internship, that the young people are almost exploited, simply doesn't happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19264	No one has made any mention of this, so I am closing the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We now proceed to the vote on item 3 - request from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 2181 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We come to the vote on item 4 - request from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 2182 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – That too is the majority. The request was accepted. [[19:20:01]] 5. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report in accordance with Art. 1 § 8 Relevant limitation law for the years 2010 and 2011 (III-371/2153 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on the 2012/13 series (III-372/2154, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19335	We now come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Gessl-Ranftl has spoken. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19362	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! The seventh income report is excellent as a reference work, is informative, easy to read and also a valuable report on the analysis of income sources. Unfortunately, this report has once again shown that women have fewer incomes available than men. If one compares the years 1998 and 2011, it is already worrying to me, but also shocking that the average gross annual income was 60 percent compared to the men in 1998 and this figure remained unchanged in 2011. Compared to the annual median income of women and men in 2011, there is a difference of 12 141 € gross. Much of the difference in income can, of course, be explained by the different levels of employment. Many women work part-time. However, they also work in poorly paid professions and thus earn much less. However, if you only compare full-time workers, there is still a difference of 19 percent. That is, women receive only 81 percent of male income. The incomes of pensioners show a similar picture. Women reached a much lower annual pension than men, and it is here that the so-called part-time pension is shown again. In summary, the figures contained in the Court of Auditors report are certainly very disillusioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19401	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19423	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The 2012 Court of Auditors’ activity report shows us on 360 pages that the tasks of the Court of Auditors and the requirements for the Court of Auditors are constantly changing and adapting in addition to the original tasks. For the first time, the Media Transparency Act, the Party Act and the audits of the municipalities are also represented in the Court of Auditors' report. In general, in five large blocks, apart from the general audit on the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of the use of public funds, there is the federal accounts, which provide us with information on the state of debt and liabilities of the federal government. An important part of this report is also the review process. In 2012, 225 legislative and regulatory drafts were sent to the Court of Auditors. In doing so, the Court of Auditors has critically noted that only 56 percent of the cases involved a calculation and a presentation of the financial impact on the budget. The drafts of the tax law amendment law and the Social Insurance Amendment Act have not explicitly been in line. The Court of Auditors has clearly and critically stated that there should have been audits. In times when public funds are scarce and we are asked to save, all the laws and regulations should be subject to a plausibility review by the Court of Auditors. I mentioned the additional tasks in the first place. On the one hand, there's been one. January 2012 the Media Transparency Act, which is about increasing the transparency of media cooperation, on the other hand, we have the Party Act on which donations of over €50,000 are published on the Court of Auditors' homepage. I've prepared a current list today. There have been eight reports from November to today. Donations of 8,079 million € have been published on the homepage. For a political group, €7.59 million will be allocated as donations. So you can see that a lot of things are changing. The Court of Auditors is, I believe, an independent audit body of the partners we trust. Another focus, which I am quite positively surprised at, is the fact that it is also possible to examine the communities of 10,000 or more inhabitants and that some countries have also adjusted their legislation. One of my colleagues will continue to report on the municipal exams. There are a lot of special reports on the federal accounts, the income report, the bank package, and we have just recently discussed the renovation of the Parliament building. The Court's balance sheet shows that there have been 1,288 recommendations. There were 1,259 replies. Nearly 50 percent, more precisely 47.8 percent of the recommendations were implemented on time. Nearly 30 percent, more precisely 29.8 percent are in implementation, and 22.4 percent of recommendations are not implemented, are currently open. Overall, the Court of Auditors has also mentioned that implementation is still pending in some areas – we have this administrative and structural reform especially in the health, education and the national teachers. The activity report shows us that in Austria, overall financial control works, but you can improve and optimise a lot. But it is important that this report continues to encourage us to further develop and improve consultation and control in the state in order to ensure the use of public funds with order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19474	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hackl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19495	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The Court of Auditors' activity report provides a good opportunity to thank the President of the Court of Auditors and, of course, his team for their excellent cooperation and excellent quality. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] Introducing a few general findings: I see that the Court of Auditors have a great deal of difference between resources and tasks. Some examples: Since 2013, the Court of Auditors has had to pay the service providers' contributions to social security itself. This results in an additional burden of € 7.6 million. It has already been mentioned that the Media Transparency Act, the Party Law and other new tasks have given the Court of Auditors a huge amount of additional work. Mr President, I asked you in one of the committees how this could be done. From my point of view, I claimed at that time, there are only two ways: either to reduce the quality or to limit the scope of the test. – You said quite clearly: The quality is not shaken. This means that if nothing changes in the share of resources, there will probably be cuts in the scope of the test. I have a small example: The Court of Auditors has spent 736 days on media transparency alone. This corresponds to the effort of twelve follow-up tests. If I continue this game of thought, then next time twelve follow-up tests will be lost. That cannot be in the sense of Parliament. We appreciate the work of the Court of Auditors. In economically difficult times, this work is all the more important, so it is up to us parliamentarians to take the appropriate measures to ensure, of course, that the additional tasks of the Court of Auditors also ensure resources. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] My predecessor has already made a point of assessing draft laws and regulations. He just mentioned a number. If you look at the time series, you actually see a trend. In 2009, 64 percent were in order. ==References====External links==* Official website In 2011, it was only 59 percent and in 2012 only 56 percent. – If you do this for the next two until three years, then the question arises of the sensuality of these laws. In conclusion, we have already heard of this. What bothers me personally is that of 1 288 recommendations at least 1 259 have been answered in some way – carried out or is carried out or does not go or whatever – only 29 audited people do not even find it worth giving any answer to the Court of Auditors. In this context, perhaps a few teeth in the Court of Auditors legislation would be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19556	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19577	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! There are, in fact, two agenda items under one, the income report and the Court of Auditors' activity report. In the second place, we will not avoid talking again about the conditions in some federal states, especially in Lower Austria. I've been looking at what's happened all day and where you want to go about reporting – election fighting or something. I'll just tell you once in a row: Stop it! It's elections in Lower Austria, that's right. It is not even certain that the Absolute in this Principality can be prevented. You can't exactly know that either. But one thing is true: If the Members of the National Council finally do more about the control of individual countries, that is good and right, even if a election is in Lower Austria. We'll take care of it again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We do not like these corrections. The more you try to do this, the more we're going to be looking at what's going on in this federal state, because it's actually getting more and more inconceivable. But now to the other report, to the income report, they have nothing to do with each other: Mr Oellinger will also speak about this. I would just like to say once again that every two years, when these parts of the income report come, the Committee on the Court of Auditors is becoming more and more concerned. We are not the committee responsible or the Economic and Financial Committee, but the data speak a dramatic language. It is clear that in real wages, if you want to do so, the lower tenth is no longer stagnating, just as it was ten, twenty years ago, but is dramatically falling back. The unself-employed can be observed in particular. If we look at the last ten, fifteen years – as long as we can follow it back soon – we can find that they have a real loss, in twenty percent, not somehow a bit. Now we are already so far that the lower third is stagnating in principle. It keeps going up. It is also taking place in the income sector, which has been warned of for a long time. If there were something like a middle layer in the income segment, it would break away. This is what other people call loss of the middle class. You can track how it builds up. It's important, I think, that we have something in mind: There are praises for European economic integration, and we do so partly, because it is basically right, even at the eastern opening et cetera, but one thing is also the case: This whole added value, which emerges from the economic situation, is completely uneven. That's why you can't be surprised when people get narcissistic. The debris will fly around our ears if we don't push against it more strongly. That's just the way it is. We do not have to go to Greece at all, because we will soon be able to do so if we do not pay more attention to it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am only saying one sentence, because that is one of other committees anyway. There is no justice committee, but at least a social and a financial committee. At least if wages on the primary market develop in such a way, tax policy must do something. That's the order! We can't watch that anymore. It is all the more annoyed – to make the revision happen again today – when Mrs Finanzminister explains again on the occasion of a tax debate that it is anyway that so many do not pay taxes and this and that. That's just the income tax. This concerns those who already earn so little that they no longer pay a wage tax at all. The Austrian tax system is not redistributive at all. It's just, as it's called in Jargon, proportional. It is in no way progressive, regressive. It's just proportional. But that means nothing happens. The real redistribution in this country takes place via the transfers, but also to it you are banging. So you have to look at it carefully in the future. This can be done more easily by the data collected by the Court of Auditors and delivered to us. Thank you very much. I would also like to have said that once again because this aspect of work with us and also with you is regularly too short. Now I am at the Court of Auditors' work. I would like to join the previous speaker. I know that the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party is on the way in this area. Today, Mr Moser and I have tabled a self-employed proposal aimed at securing the Court of Auditors' resources against two threats. The one is the new method of calculating service providers' contributions. This, however, leads to the fact that, when all reserves are exhausted, from 2015, 2016 de facto we have to expect a tangible job recovery which, if you are a responsible president, you already have to initiate. That's what happens. I am already saying this, and the debate will come in time because in March, April, we will renegotiate the financial framework. Last year we already said that it is this time that we have to secure the Court of Auditors' resources. I think it's a cleaner, like that last year. There came the executive and presented it to the house. Of course, they have once again been stumbled behind. Now it is time for the ministries, especially the Minister for Finance to be examined by the Court of Auditors, to dictate how many resources he still has. That's not how it's going to last. That's what we're gonna do. I just think it's a cleaner, even with this stupid thing: We must save everyone, and the Court of Auditors too! You know what? – Every civil servant who is semi-trained and also independent is a huge profit for the state. In the large-scale audit, in the financial office, in the Court of Auditors and in other fights against fraud, people are best used. That still brings a return for the state, and there you should look at it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last of the errors raised in the federal states: We have a number of points in the activity report, and we have to try to get together in a decent manner. Yesterday and today was unfortunately a low point in this respect, because – I tell you that – the ban on speculation is not at all at present coming. If it had come, it would have been a bad thing. Maybe there's a chance that it'll be a better one. Let's take a look at this overall: Speculations in the countries, the overall budget management is completely opaque, completely incomparable. Nothing gets better, everywhere you want to rule back in. Recently, the negotiation is going so far that the federal states now want to talk about how the federal government is running its budget so that we can still worsen the level as a whole. They're not comparable. All this is a topic. We do not even know how high the liabilities of the countries are. The distributed carriers – we don't know anything about the speculations at all. We don't even know about the debts. These are the states that are currently ruling. In reality, the Minister of Finance does not know what reports she sends to the European Union. I believe that we are one of the last countries in Europe, and they are now increasingly pointing out this. The financial status of the Republic is not recoverable. That's the real state! - Fekter says it himself. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] She is desperate of completely misunderstood federalism, for she now knows that this whole folklore is a few billion. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't misestimate the Minister of Finance!]] That's inefficiency. You should have this written in the main book by the ÖVP. We will be more concerned about this, including the competence of the Court of Auditors. It cannot be said that the Court of Auditors is either either always dizzying in these matters or not getting the data. At least it's a hard work. But we're going to help over a series of questions all over the country so that we can get a little picture at least once. In conclusion, why this is so important: It is not only Lower Austria, it is not only Salzburg, for example it is also the Styria. We started the project there. What's going on? Yes, of course, there are foreign currency credits there. Yeah, maybe not such a malheur if you had taken it or something. But that didn't happen. And do you know what hits the barrel? – The answers from the state government! And they also go to the newspaper, as a criticism of me or of my colleagues in the country day – where we have found the loss that has so far occurred: Don't get upset, all this is a win! The Styrian finance councillor has claimed that with a foreign currency credit plus/ minus €170 million – it is of course the question of which year you are attracting – we make 60 to 80 million profits – depending on which paper you publish. - Such a fool! That's the state in this republic! Now the Styria is said to be a reform country – so that we know what we are talking about. So, Lower Austria, the problem is spreading, all the more so because we're behind it. It's really about making this republic cleaner.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19644	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19667	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have two reports on this item on the agenda today: the income report and the Court of Auditors' activity report. I would also like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors and his staff for these two reports and for their excellent work. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I should like to focus briefly on both reports – first of all on the income report. My previous speakers have already referred to it in part. It is clear from this report that women still deserve less. Even if it is partially adjusted, 19 percent remain. The fact is: Women earn less than men! On the other hand, something has to be done. Mrs Gessl-Ranftl von der SPÖ has also mentioned this, has found it has also criticized it. But I can already ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that you also become active, because you have been setting up the Minister for Women for Women for some time. In my opinion, it has not gone much further in this area. Little has been done to ensure that women really earn better, so that the poorly paid professions in which women work, the service professions, are upgraded so that there are collective agreements everywhere. There is no legal minimum wage that we have been demanding for a long time. There are no conditions for child care. And what would really help women to earn better would be the abolition of the limit on child care. We have often called for these points, and we have often put them here. I would like to present it again at this point, because often, especially by the representatives of the government parties, the criticism is that no proposals are made by the opposition. Here are proposals that I have mentioned to you, and I should also like to ask you, together with us, to finally go to implementation. Since 1998 there has been this report, it is being laid every two years, that is now the seventh report, and basically there is not much change or improvement to be seen. Marginal has reduced the gap between men and women as regards income shears, but it is still 19 percent. In my opinion, there is also concern about the difference between the poor and the rich. This report also shows that manager salaries have increased twice as much as the salaries of normal employees. This is also a point that needs to be raised and addressed, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As I said, the shear between the poor and the rich is increasing. There must also be a discharge from citizens, because citizens are no longer in receipt of their incomes. It's all getting more expensive, and the tax and tax burden is putting it down. Here, too, I would like to mention our fair tax model, which would relieve really lower incomes and lead to a financial improvement of those who earn little – not like the change in the area of commuting fees, the small earners, the middle incomes cannot really benefit again, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to briefly refer to the Court of Auditors' activity report. My previous speakers have already mentioned this in part. We have already discussed this extensively in committee. It says: The Court of Auditors is getting more and more tasks and doing excellent work, which is confirmed by all the political groups here and is constantly being said, only when it comes to the matter is the whole not so rosy, then, above all, the Members of the Government have not heard any more beautiful words. I should like to remind you once again that the Court of Auditors has to save 30 employees, save 30 planning posts, that it lacks €3 million by 2016, because it will have to pay the service providers' contributions – it has already been mentioned – from 2013 onwards. There's no money for control, for testing. The Court of Auditors brings much more money than the three million, because it checks the taxpayers' money, and this money is not available. The President of the Court of Auditors also stated clearly and clearly in the Committee that the Court of Auditors will no longer be able to carry out audits to the extent that he has done so far, ladies and gentlemen, due to the abundance of tasks – media transparency law, party law, as mentioned today, or community monitoring. And that should give us some thought! The President of the Court of Auditors not only said it once, but he has already said it at least twenty times, but has not changed anything so far. In the committees, there have also been promises of red and black, by Mrs Schittenhelm, by Mrs Lapp, that there will be a budget for the Court of Auditors, that there will be improvements in the budget area, but my knowledge has not yet been done. [[Abg. May. Lapp: From 2015, Mrs. Colleague!]] This has not been discussed in the last Committee on the Court of Auditors either. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the Court of Auditors' task is very important. It must also be equipped with sufficient budget resources, especially if we should decide on the ban on speculation sometime in the future – when the election in Lower Austria is over, it may not look so bad on the part of the ÖVP. – In order to avoid speculation operations in other federal states, he needs the necessary financial resources for these tasks, and we should therefore send them to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19722	The next speaker is Mr Tadler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19743	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From the ÖVP no one is there anymore, hopp, all in Lower Austria during the election campaign. [[Abg. Hi, hello!]] Don't worry. I have to give my previous speaker, Mr Kogler, a lot of things. He speaks to us a little bit of the soul, to the things he has cut there, especially about those with us in Salzburg. But he also mentioned that the Court of Auditors in Austria is an independent body of the National Council, which he told in the morning. The Court of Auditors is responsible for reviewing the conduct, i.e. the financial activity of the federal government in respect of the countries and the larger municipalities, Mr Mayor A. D.! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] However, the audit activity of the Court of Auditors can be severely impeded, just as it happened a little bit in Salzburg, as false information and statements are not being punished, ladies and gentlemen. Otherwise, in court proceedings and in investigation committees, where a false statement is subject to punishment. In the interests of transparency and truth, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, especially with regard to the things that have happened to us in Salzburg and which are still happening and are hopefully to be revealed. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19801	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19855	Next speaker: Mr Hell. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19876	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Various analyses from the income report have already been addressed. I would like to focus my attention on the different income trends in the federal states, and this is also mentioned in the report. It does not matter whether employees live and work in Lower Austria or in Vienna, or in Carinthia, Vorarlberg or Tyrol. According to this analysis, Niederösterreich was the Federal State with the highest average gross annual income in view of all employees – including part-time workers and full-time workers. The lowest incomes in this area are the federal states of Tyrol and Salzburg. This should be due to the fact that there is much more part-time work in these federal states. If you only look at the full-time workers all year round, you can see that Vorarlberg is at the top. There is the highest level with 37 881 €. The differences in income between women and men have already been discussed. This analysis also clearly explains that there is a relatively slight difference in income between men and women in the Federal Capital of Vienna. Social positions are also analysed. This shows, for example, that the proportion of employees in Lower Austria is only 34 percent. In other words, workers are relatively small. Mr President, Mr Moser, this report also addresses the income situation in agriculture. Unfortunately, there is no common analysis of all the federal states. However, we know from other studies that agriculture in particular has a very strong East-West gap, and that income in Burgenland and Lower Austria, for example, is twice as high as in the poorest countries of Tyrol and Salzburg. Perhaps it is possible to look at this area in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Our common objective must be to create framework conditions in terms of the different income trends identified in the report, especially in terms of men and women's incomes, but also in terms of atypical employment relations, so that the existing inequality can be eroded or reduced. And here I agree with Mr Kogler: We need counter-control measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19914	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19937	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President-in-Office of the Council. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The income report is always a good basis to deal with developments in the labour market – because it is also very good – and income development. I think that this report deserves to be looked at accordingly and, above all, assessed and discussed in a differentiated manner. Unfortunately, many data are sometimes used a little misused and some facts are also a bit distorted, a little negative, especially as regards income development in general and also as regards the difference between the income of men and women. In my view, I would like to hold three things that the report makes quite clear. We know this from other statistics, but it is clearly also documented here: There have never been as many employees in Austria as at the time when this was examined, namely over 4 million – 4,004,000 employees. And I think that's very, very pleasing. Women's incomes can be found to attract them. However, we are not yet where we want to go, namely in terms of equality: equal pay is guaranteed for equal work. I think that's what you need to work on. Our goal must be to achieve equality. This is already the case in the public service. A third point I would like to put forward after myself in the public service is: The gross annual incomes of public servants are not generally higher - this is often misrepresented - because more is earned there, but this is due to the fact that fewer young people enter the civil service, that there are higher-level academics, officials in higher usage groups, and the part-time share of the public service among officials is low. Therefore, higher gross annual incomes are generated. If this were to be done by contract staff, there would be no higher income. I would generally like to highlight women's incomes from another side: There is an essential reason for different incomes, namely the fact that women are mainly active in part-time employment. 28 percent are part-time, of which 86 percent are women. [[Abg. May. Worm: Why?]] Why, Mrs. Worm? – I'll tell you: Because the women and the families want exactly that, namely that the mothers or fathers can work part-time – mostly the women – because this clearly ensures the compatibility of family and work. That is why women are mainly active in part-time jobs! If you look at the statistics, you can see quite clearly that they – and this is again the case for women – achieve very different levels of employment, from a few hours to 35 hours. [[Abg. May. Worm: Why?]] Why? – Because they set up the compatibility of work and family in such a way that they can do family work, organize child care according to their conceptions, and participate in working life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Families want part-time work, they want this form of employment, and that is why it is important to ensure it. It is absolutely not understandable that – and this is especially the opinion of the SPÖ and the Greens – one always sees full-time work as a full-time work. The families, the mothers want very much part-time work, they mainly want to provide childcare themselves and they do not delegate it to the state. That is why it is also very gratifying in this context that we are today involved in the promotion of commuters – also thanks to their participation! – improved part-time workers. An important and correct step to follow!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e19996	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20017	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Yes, this income report, which we have here today, clearly shows that the Federal Government, particularly as regards the income of women, is very sparse and has not made any real improvements to the framework conditions. It is not necessarily new that the difference between women's and men's incomes results to a very large extent from the fact that women are more involved and active in low-paid areas. What I noticed when reading the report is the fact that the highest income in the energy industry has been achieved, and there are just 19 percent women employed. That means that's the second lowest female share. There is only the construction where even fewer women are employed. But just where much can be earned, proportionally few women are employed. In total, it can also be observed that a disparity of income is particularly high where income is low. And if income has fallen by more than 10 percent over the last 15 years, this is also an indication that inflation is a very strong instrument and particularly affects women. But I would like to comment briefly on what Mr Hammer said – now he is no longer here! [[The speaker looks for a look at the ÖVP's series of seats.]] - Here you are! – Of course, part-time women want to go to work part-time. But I remembered that two years ago we discussed the income report here. That is why I looked at what your colleague, August Wöginger, said about this. He said: "I believe that we are all in favour of differences between men and women. - We don't have any account with the beekeepers at the time of the karenz. A woman stays at home for a certain period of time for child rearing, so takes a karenz period – the man employed with her at the same time continues in the salary scheme.” I was astounded when I researched this, because these are our demands, which we have set a long time ago, which you might decide here in the house, but which have not been implemented. This also applies to pre-service periods. In order to avoid maintaining the differences between women and men's salaries, we need a strong instrument, and women also need to be sure that, after having stayed with the children for a while, they can get back into the profession. What would interest me, Mr President of the Court of Auditors: I know your resources have been limited, as we have heard today, so it is unfortunately difficult to bring in new ideas. But I would also be interested in the approach of family income in Austria, because I believe that also the Maintenance obligations of men and the maintenance of children belong to them. I would be very interested in how the family income actually staggers in Austria. That would be an interesting approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20077	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20099	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – It doesn't work properly, but okay. [[The attitude of the speaker to the right height does not work properly.]] Mr President Moser, I am very glad that the Court of Auditors' report contains every year the sentences that the report according to § 8 para. 1 to 3 is unfortunately missing, because there are obsessive decisions that prevent the Court of Auditors from doing what the legislator has actually told him, namely creating transparency in incomes from public references. I am surprised that there is no debate at all about the fact that we have not succeeded in getting a clean regime to ensure this. Regardless of the possible motives at the highest courts I do not want to speculate on, I think it would be necessary to establish transparency in public relations, as is actually required by the Reference Restriction Act. The Court of Auditors is not allowed to do so because of the highest court judgments. Obviously, there is relief about the fact that the Court of Auditors is not allowed to do so anyway. It doesn't matter. I'm sorry. - That's one. Mr Kogler has already mentioned the subject. It is the drama, the absolute drama of income development that existed between 1998 and 2011. This is the period of time that the Court of Auditors documents. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very dissatisfied with how we discuss how we deal with it. It is good to discuss this in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, but obviously – Mr Kickl will agree with me in this case – not only the Committee, but also the Committee on Equal Opportunities, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, it would also have to be discussed by the Committee on Culture, because the results described in the income report have a different impact, but, as a rule, they have a disastrous impact on certain professional and income groups. It is a disaster if we just talk about it and say that something will have to happen to us. In fact, no one says anything about what might happen to us in order to correct this poor income development in some way. There is an absolute separation between the development of capital incomes, which are increasing, and the development of incomes from self-employed activity, which overall decreases. And within the narrower pot income from self-employed or self-employed activity, the proportion of those who earn less is increasing in recent years, and the proportion of those who earn more is relatively smaller. [[Abg. Kickl: And all this in growing employment!]] We talk about 20 percent of the self-employed workers who earn more. The rest deserve as much as 11 years ago or even less. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, these results of the Court of Auditors would require a call. I note in the debate that every speaker, and I can't completely take away from that one, because it can't be done in five minutes. You can't do this either by pointing out that the black-blue has been or not. It is, in principle, a relatively independent development, a European and indeed international trend. If we don't watch out, we're gonna go a little bit away, the population that says: You, dear politicians, have no more recipes at all, as we could somehow guarantee our income standards. That's the real problem. I have written down long tables so that I can document this to you in different income groups. It is a disaster if one has to note, for example, that in the field of art and entertainment, the average annual income is €8 500. It's not the average, but the median income, that is, 50 percent earn less and 50 percent earn more. Accommodation, Gastronomy: Annual median income €9,464. 50 percent earn less than €9,464. Why don't we discuss what has been suggested today? – Of course, a reduction in low incomes, a relief which refers not only to taxes but also to what is actually their problem, namely taxes. Yes, we also have proposals. In this situation, why do we not discuss how we can achieve sufficient minimum wages, minimum wages from which we can live? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And since it is of no use, ladies and gentlemen from the social democracy and from the trade unions, even from the ÖVP, if you explain to me that the legal minimum wage would be a boosting of the legislator, then you will stand out. It is about the incomes of people who can no longer live from what they earn! That's a fact. And when I study the newspapers, I keep reading reports about people who are not paid with any collective contract wage, then it is quite clear that 6 € gross or 4 € gross – there are also such numbers – or 5 € gross in seasonal kidney sectors are quite common. Why don't we discuss how we can make sure we don't get to such scandalous wages? This, ladies and gentlemen, would be worth a debate which we should not now have to conduct alone in the context of a report on income in the Court of Auditors, but which we would have to do once again in the various committees, in detail and not only for half an hour in the usual Husch-Fuch procedure, and then we would have to cut off the chapter again. I hope that there will be a rethinking here, because the Court of Auditors' income report is now a document which, in its quality, even if there are different measurement methods, almost applies to the Social Report of the Ministry of Social Affairs. We should deal with these things, otherwise, I fear, it will depend on all of us – no matter what party.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20154	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20176	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! In today's Court of Auditors' report, for the first time, an additional section on atypical Employment. Unfortunately, this report once again proves that women in Austria still deserve much less than men. The incomes between men and women have not been reduced a little over the past 14 years. The average female income was 60 percent of the average male income in 1998 and also in 2011. That means that women still earn about 40 percent less than men. The causes of income shears continue to be disproportionate employment of women in low wage sectors, a small proportion of women in leadership positions, part-time employment, which is a strong female phenomenon, and the large proportion of women in atypical employment. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Full-time women also earn around a quarter less than full-time men. The lowest level of income is still in public service. In 2011, the average income of officials was at least 94 percent of the equivalent of male colleagues. Contract staff accounted for 77 percent. It is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, not only to take note of this report but also to act. Equal opportunities for careers, better assessment of women-dominated professions, expansion of high-quality and full-day childcare places, increased father participation in childcare and much more – all of this could be answers to this report.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20212	The next item is the speech by Mr Singer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20233	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As mayor, I am allowed to deal with the issue of municipalities in the Court of Auditors’ 2012 activity report. You know, since January 2011, the Court of Auditors has been entitled to examine communities of over 10,000 inhabitants. The Court of Auditors submitted ten reports in 2012. The Court of Auditors developed a community monitoring in order to meet the wide range of possibilities for examination. This instrument serves the Court of Auditors, on the one hand, as a risk-oriented selection of audit topics and, on the other hand, also serves to advise local authorities, i.e. it is also available to the municipalities in consultation with the Austrian Municipal Government. For me as mayor, this is very pleasant, because the municipalities can benefit directly from the competence of the Court of Auditors staff and can also be seen in the consultation approach outside of the audit activity. The Court of Auditors has established a profile for all 2 356 municipalities, including positions such as risk potential, administrative structure, financial situation, transfer payments and also demography. At the same time, a comparison of the municipalities in the respective size classes is created. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, every mayor can be provided with a meaningful instrument that helps him to make the lever more economical, useful and cost-effective. Some 100 municipalities have already made use of this possibility, and each municipality is invited to access this instrument accordingly. It also includes, in particular, an overview of the financial developments of the years 2008 to 2011. I should also like to point out that there is no comprehensive, meaningful data available on the total assets and holdings of the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen! For me, a further development of the accounting system towards clarity and transparency and also towards a uniform accounting system is worth supporting. Finally, two points: One is concerned with the effectiveness of the Court of Auditors' suggestions, and this is very pleasing for the municipalities despite a general decline. 79.6 percent were implemented at municipal level. Finally, I would like to thank the staff of the Court of Auditors for their work to increase economic efficiency, effectiveness and sparingness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20279	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20300	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! My speech refers to the activity report in which the Court of Auditors has focused mainly on public financial control and, of course, has also shown a number of shortcomings. The Court of Auditors also develops concrete demands, such as the demand for an accounting system that makes the actual economic performance, the economic situation transparent, the data on budgetary control, and the coordination of the budgets of the federal, regional and local authorities. Accounting accounts, which are comparable without additional information, need to be financial that is transparent and honest. It's terrifying that we need to know again and again that taxpayers disappear. The funds for corruption, for example, include €27 billion in 2012, as economic scientists Schneider tells us, those for tax evasion of 2 to 3 percent of GDP, i.e. €5.6.7 billion. And we do not know how many billions in Austria have actually been suffocated to this day. We only know about Lower Austria. That's $1.8 billion. It is not responsible, ladies and gentlemen, that permanent tax billions disappear while people can afford less and less. The current discussion about Salzburg and Lower Austria only highlights the tip of the Eisberg. These soccer houses have been available for years from the Federal Finance Agency to the countries to many municipalities. Control is required to justify hidden problems with retained documents is probably too easy. There are problems with control in general, as one examiner has just found in connection with the current food scandal. It is a difficult undertaking – he meant control – and it is necessary to trust the records of producers. Ladies and gentlemen! That can't be control! We need tests that also find hidden things. Lower Austria is a special problem. That is where the Court of Auditors shows a billion losses. Mr. Landeshupt translates this into a profit right away. The Court of Auditors may be mistaken, is the well-founded answer of the head of state with which he is responsible. a recognized institution makes a mockery. Ladies and gentlemen! This arrogance has nothing to do with it. It is not a question of permanently disappearing millions, even billions, and then it was no one. Therefore, it is urgently necessary that soccer companies with tax money be prohibited, that there is also liability, quite personal liability. It is not a country or a community that condemns money, there are always people behind it, and it is precisely these people who are also liable for the damage up to the minimum of existence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we want the credibility of politics to increase again, it will also be necessary to shoulder political responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20354	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20376	Mr President! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! The Court of Auditors' report in accordance with Art. 1 § 8 Remuneration Restriction Act, the general income report from 2012 was discussed in full in February of this year in the Court of Auditors Committee. The Court of Auditors shall report every two years to the National Council and the Federal Council on the average income of the population. This income, which of course also includes pensions, is collected separately by sectors, professional groups and functions and broken down by men and women. Statistics Austria acts as a co-operation partner for the general income report. Compared to the previous year, there was an increase in the number of self-employed persons employed by 2.68 percent to exactly 4,004 748 persons in 2011. Of these, 46 percent of employees make up the largest group, followed by 40 percent workers. Since 1998, the proportion of women has risen from 44.3 percent to 47.3 percent. Gross income calculated in the median and without apprentices amounted to €24 843. The lowest income in this area can be found among workers. They earn a gross annual income of 18 157 €. Officials, which account for only 5 percent of employees, have a median income of €49 274. This is due to several factors. In this group of employees, the most common academics can be found. In addition, they are rarely in part-time employment and are usually significantly older than the members of other employment groups. Ladies and gentlemen! Women still earn less than men. However, this value varies greatly depending on social position. For example, officials earn 94 percent of the average male income, with officials employed all year round, the value is even a little higher than that of male colleagues. Women workers, on the other hand, receive only 43 percent of men's income. Part of the income difference is due to part-time work, as 86 percent of part-time employment of women is carried out. The possibility of combining family and profession is of great importance – regardless of gender – and I would like to expressly support it here. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the economic sector is also a strong factor which explains the volatility of gross annual income. In the case of energy supply, income is the highest, in the case of gastronomy and in the case of energy supply. Storage is rather low. Here, too, you can argue with seasonal fluctuations and with part-time work. If adjustments are made, i.e. only the counting of full-time workers, the final lights are taken up in this context. Ladies and gentlemen! This report provides comprehensive data material for analysis, but also for future design. – Thank you for your valued attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20433	The next speaker was Mr Sacher. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20454	Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Finally, I would like to ask whether control is effective. A look at the demand process tells us that at the federal level, around 77 percent of the Court’s recommendations are implemented at the national level, 75 percent at the local level, around 79 percent. It was all better. In fact, the Court of Auditors' recommendations can be handled in a two-way way, either in a transparent or inaccurate way. A positive example: the reaction of the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology regarding the Austrian Institute of Technology in Seibersdorf, Lower Austria, for example. The BMVIT had to clean up there, and it also cleaned up what was set up in the then blue management area of Gorbach and its managers. What was going on in this era, ladies and gentlemen? – Business failure, inadequate control systems, years of losses, especially serious errors of the managers. The Court of Auditors' recommendations were implemented by Federal Minister Bures and her ministry, and the serious abuses were abolished. I now think of a different, negative way of dealing with the recommendations. In view of the severe criticism of the Court of Auditors regarding the doubling of Lower Austrian debts, the Lower Austrian Council of State Sobotka has said that the Court of Auditors is a political instrument. Ladies and gentlemen! And his patron, the head of the state, has even gone up to the statement: ‘Some men in the Glass Palace on the Danube Canal are obviously not qualified enough ().’ [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Unheard of!]] This is not only inconspicuous, it is superfluous, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the honourable Member Mag. Kogler and Mayerhofer.]] I would therefore like to thank the Court of Auditors for carrying out new tasks, such as the control of the Media Transparency Act and the Party Promotion Act. Mr President. After the Lower Austrian country election campaign, a lot of work will be done on you, because when I see the poster and advertising flood in the Lower Austrian media, I am convinced: This is certainly not the case with the agreed 7 million € election costs. We will check who pays for this and whether all of this is done on a legal basis! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20495	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20518	Mr President. High house! Allow me to begin by thanking the employees of the Court of Auditors, who have also carried out enormous work with enormous quality in 2012. Thank you. That is why I am willing to pass on to these employees the thanks you have expressed to the Court of Auditors today. [[General condolences.]] Considering very briefly the 2012 activity report, it is clear that this year alone we have submitted 57 reports to the Federal Government, 100 reports to the countries, 10 reports to municipalities and community associations. In addition, we have also carried out EU follow-up audits and have produced further reports such as the federal accounts or the income report, and we have been cared for with a number of other tasks that actually take enormous advantage of the Court of Auditors' resources. The Court of Auditors' reputation is recognized on its own by the fact that in the last two years the Court of Auditors has been entrusted with a great deal of additional work and administrative work. In this context, I would like to mention the extension of competence in the area of the community, and I would like to thank you very much for the fact that the mayors are now extremely well-accepted by the Court of Auditors. This is also reflected in the fact that local authorities have the highest degree of implementation of the recommendations or are also in compliance with the Court of Auditors' recommendations. The activities of the Court of Auditors have also been extended as an expert on the Stability Pact, not only in the Stability Pact 2011, but also in the Stability Pact 2012. And we've been given new tasks with the Media Transparency Act. It has already been mentioned today that only by this means will resources be used for 13 follow-up audits, which are now used for an administrative activity and are no longer available for the audit activity. We have received enormous tasks in connection with the Party Act as well as with the Federal Budget Act 2013, according to which the Court of Auditors also has further and more extensive auditing tasks related to § 117 of the Federal Budget Act. We are in the process of developing the federal accounts together with you so that you can exercise your budgetary sovereignty accordingly. And we also have new responsibilities in the development of the European control architecture. That is to say, there are a lot of new tasks that come to the Court of Auditors. On the other hand, looking at the last federal financial framework for the years 2013 to 2016, the Court of Auditors has not been equipped with resources in connection with these new tasks, but it is in the direction that the Court of Auditors has to carry over €9 million out of its own budget from 2013 to 2016 by making the service providers' contributions from its own resources. For this, only €1.7 million was planned in addition to the budget. This means that there is a gap of more than €7 million. This €7 million gap cannot be concluded by the Court of Auditors, even though it has been extremely resource-saving in the past and has saved itself a reserve. But this reserve is not enough to actually accomplish these tasks with that quality, with the extent to which you are used to it. It is yours because you have the sovereignty of control and the budgetary authority to decide on it and to say whether it is appropriate at this time to limit control in its core task, namely testing and consulting. It's my job to point you out. Your task is then to take decisions accordingly. I am pleased that the Court of Auditors' income report has also been received very positively by you. This is also because we have also tried to develop ourselves in this area and make it more readable. We have gone in the direction as this income report not only goes to the federal government, but also to the Federal Council or to the country days, that we have also given greater light to the income situation among the countries. In order to make further improvements, it will also be necessary to consider that resources are used and that resources are also made available for this purpose. What we can do with our resources, we will also achieve in terms of the debate in the Court of Auditors or today in the context of the debate, and we will try to expand it even further in order to give you an action guide to give you an opportunity to draw the necessary political conclusions from it. Thanks again for the good cooperation and for the fact that, in the context of the ban on speculation, all of you – at least all political groups – have announced that we need a further development of budgetary rights in order to be able to manage overall. Thanks again and for good cooperation this year too!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20595	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-371 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Tadler, Mrs Colleagues and others on 'False statements to the Court of Auditors'. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-372 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. [[20:29:10]] 7. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (2111, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the general Civil Code, the Corporate Code, the Labour and Social Court Law, the Rent Law, the Consumer Credit Act and the Consumer Protection Act (ZVG) (2178 d.b.) 8. Point Report and request of the Legal Affairs Committee on the draft federal law, with which the Federal Law of 8 December 1989 was adopted. March 1979 on the public utility in the housing sector (the WGG) as well as the Federal Act accompanying measures for the introduction of the euro in civil law (2179, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20677	We come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Grosz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20704	High house! I would like to express my hope that we may have the first item on the agenda on today's long agenda of this plenary debate, in which the names of two federal states where elections take place may not occur. In the last item on the agenda, eight in number, almost every contribution to the debate took place in some form here in the National Council. This confirms my suspicion that most of the Members of this House are so-called Monchis of their national leaders. That's what I found last time. But this does not bring us here in the federal legislation, nor is it our original mission. You can see that there is little excitement about my statements, because most Members already sleep – and there is no excitement about that either. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Höfinger and Mr Hörl.]] So, you can talk a lot longer, apparently at 8.30 p.m. the attention has fallen anyway. High house! My group will not vote in favour of the late payment law, for a simple reason. Our criticisms, which we have also made in the Committee on Justice, have not been strengthened in the last few days. So far, a transfer was made on the due date when it was made on the due date. Now, by this law, the transfer is fulfilled when it has come to the recipient's account on the day of due date, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, in the future we have the very difficult situation – even for debtors, even for those who have to transfer invoices – that the normal maturity days no longer apply with the bank transfer, but the respective transferor must calculate himself according to the motto “taste’s!” when he makes a transfer. If so far a transfer period or a payment period of 14 days has been set, possibly with a deduction of 3 percent discount, then the one who transfers that he knew he was on the 14th. The 3 percent discount can be transferred day after day. Today, by this late payment law, this is no longer so, but the transfer is only valid if it is at the recipient's account on the 14th. Day has already arrived. Now imagine, you have a due date on Monday, 5th. April, in between, however, are Saturday and Sunday, two rest days, the weekend, two days on which the banks did not make any transfers. When will the debtor transfer? On Friday, 2nd. April? Will it be on Thursday, 1st. April – no April joke – had been in time at all? ==References====External links== April his obligation to pay, will he be able to deduct a discount? The Committee has been discussing this for a long time. Our criticism points could not be disassembled, even by the fact that the Austrian banks have to transfer within a certain period of time. But what happens to the transfers that go abroad in the EU? Austria is a large import nation, a large export nation. We are not the island of the Blessed. We are trading with many countries in Europe. We are trading with many countries internationally, far beyond the borders of Europe with countries of other continents. You know the bank ways there. If you have to pay an invoice after America, you can't be sure that the invoice will appear on the American account 24 hours after the deposit; and this directive, which – and this is one of the criticisms – will be implemented here in excess, will also bring problems for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the Austrian economy only. We are the only group which is therefore not in agreement with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20762	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Ikrath to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20783	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Grosz has overlooked decisively – and I believe that was already the subject of very comprehensive information and information in the judicial committee – that we are implementing an EU directive by means of the anti-exhaustive law and therefore the application of this legal standard to the EU area naturally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] For the EU area, however, there is also the Payment Services Directive which obliges banks to carry out the value of a transfer on the next working day throughout the EU. If that's not a bank, she'll be liable for damages. Therefore, the objection of the debtor's insecurity for the EU area is unfounded, and outside the EU area, this standard does not in any case constitute a valid one. That is why I do not understand why the BZÖ cannot agree to such a scheme, especially since this regulation - which Mr Grosz has briefly suggested - has not yet been adopted. a huge progress for the medium-sized economy. This standard of protection is precisely based on the medium-sized economy. Why is that necessary? Because mostly small medium-sized companies have business partners who are either large companies or public authorities. This usually means asymmetry of the distribution of power at its expense. In order to protect the medium-sized companies from undue delay in payment – or long-term agreed payment periods imposed on the medium-sized company due to this inequality of power – we need this law. This law ensures that the medium-sized person receives the corresponding payment from his debtors at a reasonable time. Let me introduce my professional experience at this point, as the savings banks are the traditional financial partners of the middle class. How often do we experience that – and above all at the public level you have to practice criticism again and again – through very long payment targets or long payment delays, the small and medium-sized company comes in liquidity difficulties! This can sometimes become a matter of existence, or they have to finance themselves very expensively. This law will enable us to exclude this in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises in the future. This is of immense importance if we look at the role of the middle class in Austria. I also remind the BZÖ that. About 307 000 and 99.7 percent of enterprises are SMEs. These companies employ more than 2 million people – or, in other words, more than two thirds of the self-employed – thus securing seven out of ten jobs. In 2010, SMEs generated 63 percent of revenue and around 58 percent of gross value added in the market-oriented economy. For this group of companies, we are adopting this law today. I think this is necessary, right and important, and therefore I ask for broad approval – and I ask the BZÖ once again for consideration and an in-sich gesture.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20840	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Jarolim. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Scheibner's on it!]] – You probably have an old speaker list.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20885	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would have hoped that Mr Scheibner would have spoken about this because he would probably have put the comments made by Mr Grosz. In fact, the payment service law – which we decided here more than a year ago – made it mandatory to regulate the value of the banks within one day. In addition to Mr Ikrath's comments, I should like to say: Of course, it is in the sense of SMEs that they are paid in a timely manner and therefore the payment receipt has to be calculated and this is the relevant deadline for transfers. This means that anyone who makes a transfer must take into account this payment period and the value period. We have excluded those groups in which this is somewhat more difficult – in this case consumers, tenants and similar groups – from the law. In other words, it remains the same as it has been before, namely: The date of the payment statement shall be the date directly relevant. I think that's very useful. We know that this is a European standard, which is relevant to Europe as a whole, that is why I do not quite understand Mr Grosz's objections. – So that's to say. However, on this occasion I would like to stress something else, that is the law of law which is now under discussion. There is a proposal for this, and I am now pleased to note that Mr Gisela Wurm's request that instead of increasing the amount of disbursement to the legal practitioners by €100 a month, instead of increasing the amount of payment to the legal practitioners, we are thinking of carrying out an extension of five months to six months, which has now also come across open ears here in the house. I would like to thank you very much for that. I also think it makes sense. It probably costs about the same amount from the total effort. On the one hand, I believe it has been more helpful for legal practitioners to be able to work for a month, and, of course, for justice as a whole, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the fact that the group of legal practitioners also selected the qualification tests for justice itself, for the judicial office and for the public prosecutor's office. It is therefore useful to extend the duration for many reasons here, even if you take the 100 € – thank you, colleague Worm – and achieve a widest cost parity. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Worm]] I am very convinced that we will achieve a reasonable solution, which will also be shared by Mr Fichtenbauer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20937	Next, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e20958	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I'll be right back to: Who has bought you to agree to the budget accompanying law last year of the reduction, although we have made massively against it? – This was, of course, a story that was extremely inappropriate and now has to be repaired. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] By the way, I would like to raise it to at least seven or eight months, because that is not just a problem for the legal practitioners, but for justice as a whole. There is no better place – and that has been practised for 100 years – to learn the practice of studying. [[Assured by Dr. Jarolim, Mag. Worm and Power. Stefan.]] And it doesn't matter if he's going to judge, notary, lawyer or what I know, that's a service to the quality of justice itself. As far as today's bill is concerned, I join my predecessors, mainly colleagues Ikrath: The quality of the law is above all the fact that it will be a protection instrument for SMEs, which are actually at the power of a contracting authority at the lower level. And if it is from tomorrow or from the 16th. March will apply that in the event of default of payment, 9.2 percentage points will have to be paid – the statutory interest rate, 9.2 percent above the basic interest rate which cannot be below zero – then it will have to be Each financial referent will once consider whether he dances around the creditor, as it were, through non-payment on the nose. There is also the very reasonable corresponding provision – § 459 of the Corporate Code new – that grossly adverse contractual provisions or business practices are void or at least contested, so that a certain support is available at the expense of the entrepreneur under purchasing conditions of powerful clients, either private business or public-law. The due date provisions resulting from the law – i.e. the payment of the due amount to the creditor’s account – have long been suspended in the area of rental rights and consumer protection rights, so that we agree to this matter for reasonable reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21012	Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21034	Ladies and gentlemen! Obviously, Mr Grosz has already fled because his arguments have come to a low level of response here – I have to say: rightly! It is an effort to criticise. I am an opposition politician and, of course, I also try to find weaknesses in laws, but he has overlooked a lot of things. We are more or less obliged to implement a Judicature of the ECJ. The question is that the European Court of Justice has decided that a debt must already be credited to the account at the due date. This is a fact that cannot be ignored. Yes, this is a collision with the long Austrian tradition that monetary debt is debt and I have to transfer debt on the last day of maturity. We have to deal with this Judicature, and I think it has been found a good solution. Why? – First of all: Because it is quite reasonable for companies in professional trade to focus on transferring a day before maturity. This will not be a problem for Austrian companies, they will depend on it. It is not the only law they need to take into account when they run the economy. That won't be a problem. Secondly, and this is important: In the review procedure, there has been a great deal of protection for those who are not involved in professional trade. On the one hand, these are the consumers. For these, there is a very specific provision within it, namely that they may continue to transfer on the last day of maturity and have nevertheless settled the debt in good time. That's a special rule. Furthermore, there is a provision for the tenants inside, which states that in the full scope of the rental law the rent must be transferred to the 5th of the month. That is, if, quite traditionally, the Austrian tenant transfers his rent at the beginning of the month, then the rent is transferred in time. I therefore believe that this law, on the one hand, implements the ECJ Judicatur, as it is to be implemented, and on the other hand takes into account the necessary protection rules for tenants and consumers. The only problem we have, Mrs. Minister, is a small detail problem: that, of course, only for tenants within the full scope of the rental law, this protection provision may not apply in part. In this context, I believe you are referring to case law. That's what we'll see. But that shows another problem – and this is another favorite topic of my opinion, as you know – namely the structure of the law on rent, which is currently in force, with its completely different protection mechanisms. This is a major construction site that needs to be dealt with politically. We need a new law on rent law, which includes, as far as possible, all the rental properties that exist. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21082	Mr Heinzl, may I ask you to stop calling? [[Abg. Heinzl: Enjoy!]] Thank you. Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21114	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The late payment law, which is now applicable here, sets quite new standards for the correct and, above all, for the timely payment of business transactions. This is about payments between companies and between companies and the public sector. This law simply protects entrepreneurs from the lack of payment morality of their business partners. And it has already been mentioned several times today that this will improve the payment morale of companies and the public sector, and that this will, of course, benefit companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and therefore, of course, the overall economic location of Austria. The main purpose of the law is to implement the directive on the fight against late payment in business. The reduction of payment delays in particular is a major concern, because you must not forget that the debtors are able to lend themselves to the credit over the back door to the detriment of creditors. Although this may be seen by the debtors as a cavalier’s offence or as a serious sin, it must also be said that this can, of course, have serious consequences for the creditors, especially if several of their debtors tend to have such a behavior. Mr Ikrath has rightly referred to a question of existence. The new rules provide for the extension and strengthening of the existing instrument, namely to combat late payment by companies and by public authorities. This means that we want to achieve a further increase in the morals of payment in the business sector, and indeed to a culture of immediate payment. In order to achieve this objective, we have put in place several measures which I can sum up as follows: The aim is to increase the interest rate on default, a flat-rate compensation for recovery costs, maximum limits on payment deadlines, a temporary limitation of the duration of acceptance and review procedures and the ponization of grossly adverse contractual clauses. In my opinion, there should also be a view over the border in this context, because whenever Austrian law is applied to an entrepreneurial business, which, of course, also applies to the terms of payment. Es It is therefore important that Austrian companies are also protected by national civil law in their export activities. High house! The implementation of the directive on the fight against late payment in business has also given us the opportunity to implement the decision of the European Court of Justice already referred to by Mr Steinhauser. This decision of the European Court of Justice has referred to the timeliness of transfers, and this decision has also led to an uncertain legal situation regarding monetary debt. And we want to clarify this uncertain legal situation now. That means: In fact, this is a very, very practical question, namely the question of when the amount due must be transferred. The European Court of Justice has taken the view that, at the time of due date, the debt must already be on the creditor's account. We are now implementing this jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice with a new § 907a ABGB. At the same time, however, we have also planned measures to avoid undue disadvantages for the population. In the rental and housing law, it is sufficient if the payment is made on the account on the fifth of the month. In the consumer business, a transfer is also timely if it is commissioned on the due date. In other words, these accompanying measures ensure that a system that is useful in itself, namely the obligation to pay in time and in advance and to transfer, does not confuse the population's paid behaviour, which has been so-calledly traditional. I am pleased that this government template is very broad in its support. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21169	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21190	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl has already made it very clear what this is about. Summary: The present late payment law, which implements the EU directives on the fight against late payment in business and also includes changes to the rental law and the Consumer Protection Act, lays down, in its core, provisions with practical effects relating mainly to fixed-term payments. This new law aims to improve payment morality. This will also strengthen the economy. In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, which carry our economy, cannot afford to wait forever for their money. Perhaps some kind of compensation or bankruptcy is averted. It should also be noted that this law does not change anything for consumers. I hope you will give all of this bill your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21224	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21247	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! It is a pity that Mr Grosz is no longer taking part in this debate, otherwise he could have followed Mr Ikrath, Mr Jarolim, and also my comments, namely why his argument that he did not agree to this bill is actually going to be empty: In 2009, we passed, among other things, the Payment Services Act, and therefore the payment service provider must ensure that the money is transferred at the latest at the end of the next business day. In addition, we have laid down special rules for consumers in the Payment Delay Act. In particular, I would like to mention § 6a KschG. This is a question of when a consumer's monetary debt is fulfilled in relation to an entrepreneur through bank transfer. It is therefore sufficient to ensure that consumers issue the transfer order on the due date. There is also a special scheme for rents as well as insurance premiums. In particular, this represents, on the one hand, an implementation of the Telekom ECJ judgment, on the other hand, it is also a further development of the directive already adopted in 2002. I think that since the basket money for the banks has been lost for a long time, it would be good for the BZÖ to agree to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21284	Next, Mr Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21306	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Yes, as soon as a service is provided, it must be paid. I think that's clear. Austrian entrepreneurs are progressing here with a very good example, paying for their outside positions after an average of 31 days. And if you look at Europe's statistics, you can see that Austrian entrepreneurs are always in second place. We've only been overtaken by Finland now, but we're in front of Norway. I think the payment discipline of our Austrian entrepreneurs is exemplary. Despite the high tax rate of 44 percent in the international comparison, our entrepreneurs are always willing to provide their services financially – contrary to the public sector, because the public hand pays only after 42 days. I think one can see that the Austrian entrepreneurs are truly exemplary here. The ‘trend’ survey showed that the state’s payment morale continued to deteriorate with plus four days compared to the previous year. That's why this law, I believe, comes in gold. We have covered the two areas: on the one hand, payment between companies and, on the other, the payment morale of the public sector, which is being forced here. So: The law comes at the right time, and we have taken the right measures. I am pleased to see that, and I ask all the parties to agree to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21345	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21366	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a few brief remarks on the right to rent and the law on non-profit accommodation. I would like to thank the tenants and, above all, the tenants' association very much those who have pointed out the problems very impressively in the review procedure and thus have enabled this very good solution, which has now been created, because the ministerial draft was originally intended as the legal maturity date of the first one month for the rental rate. This would have made it necessary for many tenants to make any interim financing. And now is the future payment date of the fifth of the month, and so the tenants can pay their rental interest with the respective monthly reference. However, new developments are particularly important for social democracy, which also take particular account of the interests of the tenants; first, that the maturity date can be made unilaterally in favour of the tenants. In other words, contractual agreements on the payment date, which set them before the month five, are not permitted. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Secondly, the landlord has to announce to the tenants a usual bank account – all banking connections within the EU are considered to be common – but the restricted right to vote on the fulfilment of the rental interest remains unaffected. These new provisions also apply not only to future rental contracts, but also to existing rental conditions. So please these provisions, and that has already been mentioned, for tenants who are subject to the full scope of the rental law, or for those who live in apartments of non-profit cooperatives, it is a wormwood drop that does not apply to all tenants, that is to say, in the partial scope this issue of maturity does not apply, although it is noted in the explanations that this new standard will be broadcast to other segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21410	Mrs Mag. Hakl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21431	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The law to be adopted today is particularly important for a country like Austria, where most people are employed in very small or medium-sized enterprises. In fact, in recent years, and this has also been reinforced, large companies, including large construction companies, have also become more and more slow in the execution of payments compared to their small subcontractors, that dominant, large companies, but also the state. I have already experienced this in the public sector more than ten years ago, as well as in the Austrian Federal Railways small suppliers treated incredibly badly. that, as far as the morals of payment are concerned, it was necessary to carry out incredibly complex auditing processes for really small orders. In my view, this law is particularly important that the State and all state institutions are also bound to settle the invoices in a reasonable, short, up to two-month period. This will save very many small and medium-sized enterprises from insolvency or at least ensure that they do not have to “repress” themselves, as so often in the past, by an overpowering counterpart in Tyrol. It was not rare that it was then said: Okay, either you now agree that we'll take these deductions off the bill, then we can close it and it'll be paid right away, or you'll wait longer for your money. Under this pressure, many of the small companies in Austria were particularly affected. I am therefore very happy that this new legal regulation has provided support for small and small businesses in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21467	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21489	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A high level of payment creates a good relationship of trust. And a good relationship of trust is the basis for successful economic relations and, in a country, for an economic area, also a basis for trust in the location. In this way, this payment default law is also a measure to strengthen Austria's economic location and, because it is the implementation of an EU directive, it is also a total measure to strengthen Europe's economic location. The details were discussed in depth by my previous speakers, including the important exceptions made for consumers, tenants and tenants. I am concerned about the purpose of this law to raise the morale of payment. Especially labour-intensive companies are very often suffering to an extent that threatens to exist under payment delays of their clients. The salaries must be paid, but revenue often does not flow to the planned extent. And because of the increasing concentration, for example in the area of trade, in the area of trading companies, in the field of construction companies, the pressure on smaller suppliers is increasing, and especially the pressure on employees. And if, in addition to the extremely strong price pressure, payment delays also come, you need not be surprised that more and more businesses, especially in the small and medium-sized segments, are sleeping in insolvency. Therefore, this law is a step in the right direction – although not a cure, that is of course also quite clear. In the course of the current debate, I also mentioned another form of delay in payment, namely the delay in payment for maintenance services, which is probably the most objectionable form of debt. But this is the sad everyday life for many children in Austria, that often the most necessary thing to live is to keep away from the caregivers. In Austria, we have a very short system, namely the maintenance advance system. In this case, it would be most urgent to convert this into a maintenance security system. walk. In this respect, I have also been positively surprised that you, Mrs Minister, have also acknowledged that the current advance system is in need of revision. In this sense I hope and I also look forward to a good cooperation in the National Council, which I have not heard for four years now.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21531	The next speaker is Mrs Heller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21552	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The aim of the new late payment law has already been addressed several times. It is a matter of improving payment morality and thus of ensuring, in particular, business between public authorities and companies, but also from companies to companies, that payment is also made in time in the future. For small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, it is important that they can have the money in time. It has happened far too often that properly performed services have simply not been paid for over months. Conversely, however, companies have to pay the salaries and wages of their employees in time to pay material costs, taxes and fees. – It is a novel that brings about a new set of rules, whose practical effects are mainly fixed-term payments. In short, the most important points: In case of default of payment, a flat-rate amount of € 40 may be required for Mahnspesen. The default rate will be 9.2 percent higher than the base rate. In the case of public authorities, the agreed payment period shall not exceed 30 days, 60 days only in the case of special exceptions. In the future, transfers of funds must be given up in such a timely manner that the amount of the money has already reached the creditor's account in due time, and – and here the Payment Service Act – the Bank Institution of the Payer has to ensure that the transfer amount can be credited to the recipient's account on the following business day. In order to ensure that the amount of money also arrives in good time, it is probably not a major problem in the normal case to give transfer orders in good time – that is, a day or two earlier. But, of course, for Austria, it means a change in the usual practice, with these innovations of the law mainly affecting the public hand. According to the annual poll on payment morality, the average payment period for public authorities was 42 days – that is, in some cases it was far above. On the other hand, companies make their payments on average after 31 days. And the fastest payers are at 18 days the private persons, who, and I would like to expressly note here, are not affected by the regulations of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21586	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The final word of the report will not be desired. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft late payment law, title and receipt in 2178 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their agreement to this draft, to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: A draft federal law, with which the federal law of the 8th. In March 1979, on the common interest in housing and the Federal Act accompanying measures for the introduction of the euro are amended, including the title and receipt in 2179 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees with this draft law at third reading, I would ask for a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:11:35]] 9. Point Report of the Standing Subcommittee on European Union affairs on the project in matters of the European Union: COM(2012) 750 final – Communication from the Commission/Annual Growth Report 2013 (99652/EU XXIV.GP) (2165 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21662	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr Mag. Mag. Rossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21689	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I am very happy that we can now discuss this third annual growth report, which is here and which introduces the third European Semester, here in plenary. - Mrs. Glavischnig laughs. I have recently explained to her what the European Semester is all about. In fact, the European Semester is important in that it is set as a decisive fiscal policy change at European level. And here the annual growth report has a very special meaning, because it sets out the budgetary and overall political priorities for this process. The next European Council will set its economic and budgetary priorities on the basis of this Annual Growth Report of the European Council, which will then be included in the national reform programmes. And on the basis of these national reform programmes, the Commission then makes recommendations which play a very important role in budgeting in the national states. In so far as: This annual growth report and what is in it also very important for the Austrian budget and financial policy. If I look at this new annual growth report, I must say that it is only very marginally different from its predecessors, including what the priorities are. This is linked to the fact that the European Commission's policy is essentially always moving along three strategies, no matter what economic development is, no matter how high the unemployment rate is, whether we are in recession or not, no matter what stability in the financial markets. And these three pillars are: First: Budget consolidation, budget consolidation, budget consolidation. The second thing that comes then is: We must strengthen the competitiveness of European economies. And the third thing is then: Structural policy, structural policy, structural policy. And essentially, it is understood: Flexibility of labour markets. What does this annual growth report say about priorities? – Five priorities are mentioned. Two of them I quite recognize as positive. One is a differentiated, growth-friendly consolidation strategy, in that certain investments, namely future investment in education, research, innovation and energy, are to be excluded from consolidation processes. However, if you look at this more concretely, there is not much more to be found here than this. The second, which is positive, is the second strategy, namely to restore normal lending to small and medium-sized enterprises. Although Europe and also in Austria cannot be directly identified as a credit terminal, we at least know that it has become much more difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to get to credit in many cases. In this respect, all the strategies and efforts that can be made to restore lending to small and medium-sized enterprises are very important. Two days ago, organized by the Greens, we had a survey in this direction, because there are many companies that have these difficulties. This debate in Austria has been triggered by Heini Staudinger, and I hope that in this House we will also find some solutions that can further address this problem. As far as the third objective is concerned, promoting growth and competitiveness, there is in principle nothing wrong with improving competitiveness, for example by promoting new start-ups or by raising the level of education and the like. However, where I have major problems with this report, this is in the goal of combating unemployment and tackling the social consequences of the crisis. The report itself says that the reduction of unemployment cannot be achieved in the short term because the economy is growing too weak. And why does she grow too weak? – Because we are currently dealing with an austerity policy in Europe at the same time, which will continue in times of recession. The second point is that it is said that employment schemes need to be made more flexible. So: Structural policy, structural policy, structural policy. – I said that in the beginning. And the third thing that's said is: Wages in line with productivity developments. In other words, wages should at best increase with productivity development, but better than productivity development. And there closes. the circle of what we discussed earlier in connection with the income report. And then we should not be surprised if the Commission is constantly recommending that wages should develop under productivity development, that incomes should be diverted, or that incomes in the economies of the European Union be weak at all. Finally, the fifth objective, the fifth priority: Modernising the administration. There is no objection either. But, of course, there are also a number of questions missing. For example, the question is neglected that we in the European Union also want to pursue the objectives of the 2020 strategy, i.e. poverty reduction. 20 million people are supposed to be brought out of unemployment, as it were. But please use what measures? It is also not the case that the burden of consolidation should be more fairly distributed, nor the burden of the banking crisis. There are simply no measures to improve the economic and social situation of the countries on the periphery in the south – Greece, Spain, Portugal and the like. The European tax cooperation is also not an issue; I refer to tax havens et cetera. In concrete terms, therefore, measures to combat unemployment are missing. And this is also one of the weak points of this annual growth report, but it will accompany us here in this House for a few months. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21763	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21784	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, let me say that I am very satisfied that we are discussing the 2013 Annual Growth Report here in plenary today. This is the first EU project ever launched by the EU Subcommittee. This also underlines the importance of the new procedures at European level for the coordination of budgetary policy. The annual growth report is the first phase of the so-called European Semester. The European Semester introduced the EU Member States in 2011 in order to achieve better co-ordination between each other and to be able to detect developments at an early stage. With all its proposals, analyses and recommendations, the European Semester has an impact on our own budget planning, and it should therefore be obvious that we will continue to follow closely the individual stages of the European Semester in the future and debate it here in plenary, because the budget is a matter which concerns us all and concerns us all. The 2013 Annual Growth Report has some correct, important demands and recommendations. It is clear that the social dimension of the economic and financial crisis is now being taken much more seriously. This is already evidenced by the fact that the Commission, when preparing the report, has involved the European social partners at an early stage, and I very much welcome this close cooperation and hope that it will also be maintained. It is also true that the annual growth report calls for savings measures not to worsen social systems and the fight against excessive unemployment. Unemployment must also be declared a priority in this annual growth report. We need measures to tackle the youth unemployment, especially in the countries of the south. For example, we need the Europe-wide Youth Guarantee that has been mentioned so often. Their broad guidelines will be adopted tomorrow by the Council of EU Social Ministers. With the fund against youth unemployment reached by the Federal Chancellor, which is worth €6 billion, money is now finally available, which is necessary to implement this Youth Guarantee. That may be drops on the hot stone, but they're important. It would be even better if we could do something like nails with heads and would introduce a ceiling on youth unemployment. Why should what works for debt not also work against unemployment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21826	Mr Donabauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21848	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This Communication from the Commission is about the 2013 Annual Growth Report. This is a written information to the National Council in accordance with § 6 of the EU Information Act. It is, as my previous speakers have said, the third report, which has just existed since the introduction of the European Semester and is being discussed here in plenary today. I personally believe that this is not a series of beautiful words, but rather a requirement regarding the target orientation of the Union and a reference to many of the problems that we have, no doubt, also in this European Union – that is not a question. It's harmless, Mr. Mag. Rossmann, this report – if you study it carefully, you will be able to see it – is not marked in my opinion, but it is very likely to address these issues, although it is clear that each country can, of course, make its own rules and solutions in this regard. The introduction is interesting. It reads as follows: "The current economic and financial crisis in the EU has triggered profound change. This shows the far-reaching restructurings that are currently taking place in our economies. This process is incisive, politically demanding and” – I think that we in our country take it very seriously and really refer to many of these processes – “socially difficult, but indispensable, to “set the foundations for growth and competitiveness” – for good economic development – for the future. It is intended to set a development path for the EU Member States. Of course, it deals in particular with the economic situation, where it is also presented that employment is, of course, a central issue because, unfortunately, jobs cannot be expected to increase at the moment. The five areas have already been mentioned. In fact, I would like to deal with the issue of combating unemployment because, in my view, it is not a matter of weighting wages and salaries, but rather of creating jobs for people. Ladies and gentlemen! If Europe today has 25 million unemployed and has an unemployment rate of 10.6 percent, then policy is called on to act. I am concerned about youth unemployment in particular. I was very pleased at a plenary session of the Council of Europe when the OECD Secretary-General said very clearly that there are a few countries that actually have a good control and control of youth unemployment, and have been called Austria. - I think that's a big compliment. It has also been said why this is so: because we are above all promoting dual training and because we also demand youth accordingly and train for the future professional world. I therefore believe that all this is important, because unemployment is not just a tragedy, but a danger to democracy and society, because unemployment causes social tensions, reduces purchasing power, and, of course, finally introduces problems of growth and development. I therefore also believe that under the 2014-2020 financial framework, particular attention must be paid to addressing the whole employment issue. I personally also believe that the whole question of CAP 2014-2020 – which concerns the agricultural sector – must no longer be taken into account because we are discussing who gets more – for this, ladies and gentlemen, the issue is far too serious – but because of the question of how to employ as many people in rural areas as possible in the future. Because all those that we don't hope for outside move away into the urban zones, and then, please, we've just shifted the problems, but the situation is getting worse. – This cannot be the task or goal of politics. Of course, it also lists a number of other things, including administrative simplification – also a topic for Austria. I think that we should all think about how we could simplify these things so that we can set up businesses and thus enable employment. I am pleased that Austria has also learned that the social partners are involved in the development processes. Finally, I believe that we must strengthen Europe. A senseless, non pragmatic criticism does not solve any problems. We all need to get involved in bringing Europe forward in order to make it attractive to the citizens and make it so strong that we can control and win them in our interest in competition with other economies.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21912	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e21933	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Donabauer, of course you are right: No one strengthens senseless criticism – neither us nor the EU nor our labour force – but senseless repetition of the same phrases does not help either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer]] – This is not an accusation against you, but one referring to the report. I'm already in the report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] You only read some senseless phrases, such as the Preamble, the first sentences. [[Abg. Wöginger: That was an excellent speech!]] This goes seamlessly into the lists of the report. Of course, it begins with the fact that the solution is ever more Europe and never less Europe, centralisation and competence and governance and harmonisation, and so on, that the internal market needs to be deepened, there must be more competition, more efficient administration and a deepening of everything possible. – We know that! At least since I was in Parliament, since 2008, I have been reading and listening to this in the reports. But the interconnecting of these phrases does not bring us any further, I would rather say that it is a pity for the time to produce that – there are many officials – to work, to harm the paper and to print the environmental damage, that, and even more harm to debate that. If so, let us debate the core of the matter. Well, let's read in the report: What are really measures that are supported? – Mr Muttonen, this is particularly important for us both now in the discussion. For example, I read on page 12 concerning work activities that are becoming very famous, as follows: In Europe, “in some countries, several ambitious reforms” – in these countries – “have been taken to reduce redundancies on termination of normal employment contracts and to simplify individual and mass redundancies. Moreover, in these countries, “steps have been taken to flexify wage-finding, for example through simplification” – please listen carefully” – “the conditions under which companies can extend from higher rates”. So that's interesting. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Have you read this, Mrs. Colleague?]] The only thing I think is total disassembly and the transfer of these countries to cheap countries. That is to say, with the protection of dismissal and dismissal, away from the removals and executions, the facilitation of individual and mass announcements and the simplification of wage reductions by exit from collective agreements. And then there's something else: There is a measure, namely “taxation of employment, particularly in the low-paid sector, in order to limit tax relief of the labour factor.” – So only in the lowest-paid sector. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Probably the European Semester!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Bravo!]] So where the idea comes from here that the Social Democrats find anything good about it, I don't understand at all. That's the only thing that's not exhausted in phrases. Of course, as in the past seven years, what really is to blame for the crisis is not, of course, addressed at all. First of all, this is the debt of the European institutions – starting from the euro zone to the central steering of things that are centrally uncontrollable – in this crisis. There is no doubt about that at all. This is, of course, denied and not even addressed in an addition or in a word. There is not a self-critical element by saying: Well, it may not be a coincidence that the euro zone and the European Union have been most badly affected by the crisis worldwide. Perhaps it is true that membership of the European Union was not the lighthouse that brought us out of the crisis, as we have heard from the government in this House for five years. Maybe it wasn't. Perhaps we should devote ourselves to other issues that may give us a key to why unemployment is so high in some countries. Let's go to Spain. 25 percent unemployment, 50 percent – I have now seen the latest statistics –, 51.8% youth unemployment. Horrible! Let us now go to Eurostat's last figures on immigration. Spain. – Migration in 2011 – the last complete number present – at the height of the crisis: 457 649 people wander to Spain. Some have also migrated – I do not have the exact figures yet –; there were less than 200 000, that is, there was a net migration of over 200 000. That's an improvement! In the 2008 crisis year, there are no fewer than 726,000 people in Spain, and in 2005 more than 1.5 million illegal immigrants were authorised, i.e., integrated into the official work process. Like, please, social democrats or also dear ÖVPler, you are presenting a treatment – I am not even talking about a solution, but also about a serious treatment – of the unemployment and youth unemployment programme, when in countries like Spain – the others I am not bringing now – half a million people migrate to a market where half of the young people find no work. I can only do this as the Commission suggests: by turning the country into a cheap and inexpensive working paradise, where I find any cheapest opportunities for these immigrants. The fact that the young people have difficulty in competing with immigrants from Mauritania and Morocco and Algeria and Ecuador and Venezuela and so on – you can take a look at the countries of origin – i.e. those from countries with an average monthly salary of €150 – that the young people are so difficult and that it is not attractive for a Spanish youth to work in the strawberry farms of Andalusia by €400, €500 – because for this payment the immigrants are working there – is also clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But we do not even find all these questions in this report in approaches – not even in approaches! It is as if we were living in a parallel world, as if dramatic things just didn't happen because they were not allowed to take place. That is why this report is complete – I am not even saying bad or wrong, but wrong. It's like we were living in another universe. [[Abg. Krainer: Irre is primarily your speech!]] Mr. Col., please. Did I say that to you once? I'll also censor you next time. Please! – Mr President, I would like to point out that my speech is wrong. [[Abg. Krainer: So from strawberry picks...!]] Yes, my speech is wrong. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Listen!]] - I don't want any consequences now, but I'm gonna remember that. My colleague, I mean where there are no arguments, there is a stupid word at the right time, as it is so beautiful. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls and counter-calls between honourable Members Mag. Stefan and Krainer.]] In view of the circumstances set out above, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22108	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22172	Since it was impossible for me to hear interlocutory calls from the Presidency above, I will have the Stenographical Protocol come to me. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, let's get the protocol! I can tell you too!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: I can tell you too!]] Mr Dr Spadiut has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22217	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The European Commission's annual growth report is anything but soothing. A few quotes from this report: “After several years of weak growth, the social consequences of the crisis are now insurmountable.” Or: "The continuing crisis has not helped to drive Member States' efforts to achieve the Europe 2020 objectives in the areas of employment, climate and energy, education and poverty reduction." Or continue: “Unemployment has risen significantly and poverty and poverty has increased.” The fact is that in the last 12 months, the number of unemployed in the EU has increased by 2 million to more than 25 million. The average unemployment rate in the EU is 10.6 percent, while in the euro area 11.6%. Long-term unemployment is increasing: One out of two unemployed is unemployed for more than a year. Youth unemployment is now over 50 percent. For example, the WIFO warns in its recent monthly report from January 2013 and criticises the EU's course, precisely against this negative development as a result of the EU's prescribed savings rate. It says: These developments make saving policy a key strategy for reducing public debt questionable. In particular, the Fiscal Pact is criticised in this context. To this end, the WIFO monthly report states: Its application in a situation where most EU countries are in recession or at least stagnation could slow down and even prevent recovery, thereby also reducing medium-term economic development. Nevertheless, the policy adheres to this Fiscal Pact. The election in Italy has clearly highlighted the protest of the population against excessive savings measures on the back of the population. Ladies and gentlemen! The population is beginning to lose confidence in the EU. We finally need a Europe for and not for the citizens and Austrian representatives who represent at EU level the interests of the citizens and do not betray them.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22275	Mr Hagen has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22297	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary on the Government Bank! I'd like to read to you a little bit, and I'll start like this: "In total, the Commission's annual growth report does not provide a suitable basis for addressing the massive economic and social problems in the European Union. Rather, the existing problems could be reinforced by key recommendations from the report, in particular by the continuation of the ‘necessary reform process’ of failed austerity policy, which reduces the growth potential in the EU and dramatically increases unemployment’. That's not what I'm saying, but it's in the AK position paper, written in January 2013. The Chamber of Workers is not necessarily a preliminary organisation of the Stronach team, but we know that the SPÖ is in there very strongly, and therefore I am not quite clear why Mrs Muttonen spoke very positively about this report here. I think that's a little questionable, because your positions are not really carried here. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Markowitz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this report is not the yellow of the egg, which has already been pointed out several times here. I'm just taking a few figures out of it: For 2012, GDP was expected to fall by around 0.3 percent in the EU and 0.4% in the euro area, so these are not exactly joyful messages. However, in the 2013 annual report, positive reform processes in the EU countries are expected to stabilise the economic situation. Let's take a look at our neighboring country Italy! There's a little mess right now. After all, it is the third largest economy in the EU, and the political situation does not suggest what is still happening to the EU – all in all, a very questionable situation. I think we need more truth, more fairness and more transparency – and this also in the EU!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22352	Mr Ostermayer, President of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22375	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! One of my previous speakers has clearly shown, as I believe, that the growth report does not conceal the problems that exist in the European Union – but also in other economies or regions of the world – but that the problems are also addressed very specifically and are being tried to define solutions or objectives for these problems. One thing I think is quite clear: If the European Union did not exist, the problems we are currently facing would be even greater. I think there is consensus on the objectives. So I assume that Mr Hübner can also be consistent with the fundamental objectives or priorities – that is, differentiated, growth-oriented or growth-friendly consolidation. We can certainly say that the consolidation package that we have decided on is going exactly in this direction, namely consolidation, by saving expenditure on the one hand, but on the other hand we are also reaping revenue, so as not to put too much investment at risk, which, of course, will lead to growth and employment on the other. There is also consensus on the second point, the restoration of normal credit provision, I believe. Third point: Promoting growth and competitiveness. . I think Austria in particular is an example in this area, which can well be seen by taking into account the consolidation package prepared and decided by the government last year. Fourth point: To combat unemployment and tackle the social consequences of the crisis. – On the way you can be quite different, but from the point of view, I think – or hope – it is so that it is generally welcomed in this house. With regard to the fifth point, the modernisation of the administration, we have also made a lot of provision in Austria in the consolidation package. That is a very important point. One can show it by example Greece: We have seen there, for example, in the area of tax collection, there is a great need for tax authorities, because it is not enough for taxes to be provided, so to speak, by law, but they actually need to be lifted. One point that is also the result of this growth report, which was taken up, above all, due to the initiatives of Austria, the Federal Chancellor, the Social Minister, is the Youth Employment Pact, in particular the Youth Employment Guarantee for young people. Implementation or decision-making is already scheduled in the Social Council tomorrow. This is an example which has been addressed not only in the EU but also through the G20. The Federal Chancellor was with Commission President Barroso and last week also with the Portuguese Prime Minister in a teaching workshop to show how we do this and to convince it. This conviction has now been successful. Why is the European Union so important, especially for Austria? – This has been discussed several times and often already, and this is also evident in the figures of Austria that have been found in the European Commission’s winter forecast: On the one hand, we will also be the lowest in 2013 Unemployment in the EU, we will have a very low value in youth unemployment, we are very good at growth in the euro area. On the other hand, an essential point is that the growth that is taking place in Austria depends to a very high degree on exports – on exports to the euro zone, on exports to the European Union. The figures of the Austrian National Bank say that around 990 000 jobs – almost one million – are secured by export and that some 500 000 of them are secured by exports to the euro area alone. I believe that this is a striking proof of why it is so important for us to be in the European Union that the euro area is being stabilised – and that is exactly the objectives of this growth report, which is now in place. I think we should all make every effort to ensure that these objectives are achieved as far as possible, that at least the basic objectives are achieved. We should also make every effort to ensure that Europe and Austria continue to be so good – without concealing that there have been major problems since the financial crisis in 2008 and there will be much to do there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22440	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22461	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr Ostermayer, you have just said that we agree with the objectives proposed in this growth report. However, the path is not always identical to what is proposed – and I am already with Dr. Hübner. [[Abg. Scheibner: But the way is!]] Last Tuesday in the EU Subcommittee, we had the opportunity, with the representative of the Commission here in Vienna, with Mag. Kühnel as an expert to discuss. As the various reports – in the stability report, in the growth report, in various reports from the Commission – have repeatedly also debated the retirement age, namely the earlier approximation of the age of women's pensions, I have naturally taken the opportunity to debate this also in this committee and to ask the Commission's opinion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber]] On this point, we are simply different from the European Commission, which has made proposals in this regard. I am convinced that it is a good thing that we are harmonizing the actual retirement age of women and men. It is de facto only a year and a half difference between the different ages of entry between men and women. However, it is proposed that the approximation of the different retirement age should take place before 2033, as the Constitution states, and I simply do not think so, because the actual equality in Austria has simply and simply not taken place, because there is still a need for important measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] For example, we need more childcare, we need better billing times, and, and, and. What we do not need in this context is that we have more reductions on this path for women and even lower pensions than we do now. [[Abg. Wöginger: If they work longer!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] I remind you: The average female pension is €778 and the male pension is €1200; since we have already discussed the Court of Auditors' report today, we have to start. The long calculation periods also do not necessarily take into account what working life looks like in the biography of women. Therefore: There should be other ways of continuing the Austrian path and taking practical measures to encourage employers to employ more older workers and, above all, female workers – this is a point – to pay higher wages during working hours, but not to encourage the poverty of old age by proposing measures, which will make the reductions even bigger and lower pensions. I'm sure we can't join the SPÖ, so: Hands away from an early adjustment of the retirement age for women!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22563	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22584	Madam President. When we look at how Austria has gone out of the crisis compared to most other countries in the European Union, we see that we must have done a lot of things right. We've done a number of things. The first is that we have tried to save, so that it is as neutral as possible, that is to say, as little bad for employment and as good as possible for growth. The second thing we did is that we also invested because we knew that education, research, green jobs are future investments that we want and need to make, even in times of scarce households. The third thing we've done is that we've seen that we're producing more just revenue in the state budget, as I say: Reduce taxes and taxes on labour while increasing taxes and taxes on capital and assets. That's what happened. Since the crisis, we have reduced taxes and taxes on work by about €3 billion and increased taxes on capital and assets by approximately €2 billion. And the figures we see – Austria compared to the other countries in the European Union – have given us a right and have shown that the policy we have made was correct. Our main focus in politics has always been on employment, so Austria is among the very few countries in which today more people have a job than before the crisis; although there is now more unemployed than before the crisis, there are still more jobs. Most countries have fewer jobs than before the crisis. Looking at the report of the European Union, it is noted that in some areas this policy, which we have made here in Austria – not only in Austria; there are other countries that have come more successfully through the crisis than the average or most of the European Union – that some of the approaches we have chosen are also elected. In fact, in most cases, what has to do with employment policy, Austria is a model for all countries in the European Union, including, for example, the job guarantee that we have already introduced in Austria. Every young person in Austria has a right to a training place, to an apprenticeship or to an employment place within six months of finishing school or hanging in the air. Young people have the guarantee to get one of these three places within this period. This is at the top of the measures that the European Union wants to implement for all countries, because Austria has just made such a successful employment policy. There are also a number of other questions where one sees that the good policy we have made in Austria will be taken over – but not all. There is, of course, also criticism, for example, that the impact of austerity policies in the European Union, such as the loss of money, is not properly assessed. It is true that both the European Union and the IMF have entered their crisis programmes and have said: If we save a euro, it means half a euro of economic performance is lost. What did the IMF do? – He has seen what actually happened. In fact, it did not lose half a euro, but it was in about one and a half to two euros. This means that the negative effects of this blind austerity policy are much worse than you thought. The IMF draws the consequences from this and says: If our forecast does not match reality, then there must be something wrong with the forecast. Unfortunately, the European Union has not yet fully understood this, who always believe that something is wrong with reality. I claim that reality is always true, and if you've predicted something wrong, it's the prognosis and not the reality. One point which unfortunately does not yet have the importance that he should have in the international discussion is unemployment. It is perfectly true that we have strict limits on debt, strict limits on debt, but the issue of unemployment is equally important. If there is practically a procedure against countries with excessive deficits, there should also be a procedure against countries with excessive unemployment rates, because they are even more dangerous to society than high debt. This is something we need to work on in the European Union so that the question of employment is given the importance it has in Austria and which it deserves. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22623	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word on the part of the reporting is desired. We now come to the vote on the request by the Standing Subcommittee on European Union affairs to take note of its report 2165 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Johannes Hübner, colleagues, on the project in European Union affairs: COM(2012) 750 final – Communication from the Commission/Annual Growth Report 2013 (99652/EU XXIV.GP). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[21:57:30]] 10. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (2133, e.g._Other Organiser Framework Agreements on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part (2174, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22689	We're on the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22716	Thank you, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I think that moderately efficient armlights are now making politics. It is an agreement where it is really very, very important that we protect our people, that we protect our jobs, that we protect our purchasing power. And above all, it's about one thing: It's a lot about child labour. We from BZÖ are the only ones who are here against this madness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] If you today agree that the Republic of Vietnam can import products free of customs duty to Austria, I think that is really significant. For the Protocol: The colleague Hörl from ÖVP can't shout anything like stupid! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's really about very, very much, because a lot of entrepreneurs in Tyrol come to me, they're really desperate, they say – just like the Stubai works –: We develop best tools, we bring them to the home markets. And then what happens? – After three months at the latest, they will be replaced by products from China, India and now Vietnam. And now we're going to let them in without duty?- Oh, my God! Yes, dear friends, we have to think about that! Do we send our entire purchasing power to the Far East and destroy jobs with us? - I think that's the wrong way. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Cap, said very much in the Committee that the Vietnamese produce the best running shoes, I want cheap running shoes – for that we are! Mr Cap, no one understands that. Do you know if there's a kid's work in there? Is there any seal, or does anyone control it? – I think that’s the wrong way. I am also sure that our Austrian companies, the European companies, can produce at least the same good shoes. And a Mr. Klubobmann and a Mr. Functionary, forever in the SPÖ, will also be able to afford European, i.e. Austrian running shoes. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You're unsuspecting!]] He says I'm unsuspecting, for the protocol: I'm unsuspecting. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I'm not unsuspecting! We need our jobs! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] You're totally world-famous, Mr. Klubobmann! They live in a false world. It is no wonder that we have such economic data today that we also receive such reports from the European Union as we have just received them. It's a game of mourning. And you say I'm unsuspecting. Who's unsuspecting? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] We have a duty to protect our jobs. That's really true. A People's Party goes here and represents only the banks, the interests of this Europe, the USSR. We have seen the consequences in Russia. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Let's finally deal with the mind of the house! Let us finally act in solidarity with our value added, with our purchasing power, in solidarity with our jobs! Mr Cap! And one thing I'm saying to you, I have evidence that a lot of suits are being produced by children in Vietnam today. That's what you want to let in all this duty-free? I wish you luck! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If we are not here today as Members of the National Council, where our purchasing power flows, if we do not finally stand before our Austrian businesses, in front of European businesses, then this Europe will have no future and this red-black will have been served. Let us finally start by protecting our jobs and our value added, and let us see that we are producing running shoes in Austria! That would be an initiative. [[Complaints and Yeswelf-Rufe at the BZÖ.]] But we shouldn't go here and say we're demanding running shoes from Vietnam, which are very cheap. That's the wrong way.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22809	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22831	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! We will read the Minutes carefully and see if it is really complete. By the way, Mr Huber, I would really recommend that you consider your role as spokesperson for development cooperation, because what you have offered in this context was not in this role. [[Call BZÖ: Go!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All right, all right. Back to the subject. [[Abg. Huber: This is good for development policy!]] In 1975, at the end of the Vietnam War, a term was coined that is still common today in the refugee field, namely, the “boat people”. Many who have experienced this time in the media will still know how this war has gone. At the end of this war, 1975, Vietnam was at least a destroyed country, and there were a total of 2 million dead in this war. That is why it is actually a bit unreal and almost incredible for me to decide today as the European Union and Austria a framework agreement on comprehensive economic cooperation with Vietnam. This shows, on the one hand, that there has really been a good economic development here. I therefore also believe that it is good and right that we sign this agreement. On the other hand, we must not forget that Vietnam is still a dictatorship led by a Communist Unity Party, and that it is therefore important that this Treaty refers to human rights and the rights of individuals and of individual companies. This is ensured, inter alia, by this agreement. And I therefore believe that it is good, especially for people in Vietnam, that this framework agreement is signed or ratified today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22886	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22907	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to refer to the comments made by my predecessor, Mr Huber. Mr Huber, I think you have missed the fact that this agreement also contains very important provisions relating to employment, social security and the development of this country. [[Abg. Scheibner: Read it!]] I think it is very crucial and very important that the contracting parties have also understood that the recognised standards of the work organisation, the ILO, will also be supported in the future. That is an important point. [[Abg. Huber: It's about my colleague Cap's running shoes!]] I am right to say that the working conditions in this country are not good. But precisely that is why such agreements must also be made so that measures are taken to ensure that the workers employed there have better conditions. This is crucial for the people who live there. At the end of the day, however, this is also crucial for our colleagues in the labour market. Because if working conditions in this country improve, it simply means that no longer any companies that want to produce cheap ones emigrate there and take advantage of the people there. That is why I think this agreement is excellent, important and good. Let me also address a few other points contained in this Agreement between the European Union and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. These are agreements relating to development policy, peace and security, trade and investment, health, employment and social affairs. That's what I said. And what is very important to me is that there are also provisions to be taken to improve the situation of women in the labour market, in the workplace and also in relation to participation in political events there. A good measure, a good agreement, and I hope that it will be implemented quickly in many areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22955	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e22976	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. We support the Framework Agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, on the other, because we believe it is important that the EU finally develops its own policy in the case of Asia. That would be a first step in this direction. It is well known that the EU is still lacking strategic cooperation with the Asian countries. A number of areas to be covered by this Framework Convention were listed by Mr Csörgits. I'm not going to list them all. I agree with her comments and her assessment in this respect, but would like to say critically, however, that we will observe this closely. Should a free trade agreement with Vietnam be drawn up, We must look at this very carefully, because of course it will be a question of whether sustainable economic development would be promoted or hindered by such an agreement. The topic of human rights. Of course, we also need to pay particular attention to the issue of human rights. However, such a free trade agreement is not the subject of the debate. This is a framework agreement. For the above reasons, we will agree to this framework agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23015	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23047	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think that this attempt by Mr Klein, apologise for Grosz, is almost unbearable in the context of this debate. [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's where you took all your intelligence together!]] That is why I really want to get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Partnership and cooperation between the European Union and Vietnam will be put on a new contractual basis. Our main focus is on developing both political and economic as well as social and cultural cooperation. A sustainable investment policy is also important, as the long-term objective of development cooperation must be the elimination of poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, I was able to be there last year when a large Austrian economic delegation traveled under the leadership of our Federal President Heinz Fischer Vietnam. That is why I know from many personal discussions and experiences that many Austrian companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, have great interest in trade relations with Vietnam. What do we expect from this agreement in Austria, Mr Grosz? [[Abg. Grosz: Cheap running shoes for Mr. Cap!]] In particular, we expect to intensify relations with regard to the Hi-Tech market. The Austrian interest lies here in particular in the field of energy, environment and education, Mr Grosz, and not only in running shoes. This to your knowledge.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23114	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. No final word on the part of the reporting is desired. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 2133 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1) B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[22:12:23]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Christine Muttonen, Werner Amon, MBA, colleagues on the talks between the Turkish government and the PKK arrested leader, Abdullah Öcalan (2175 d.b.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment 2028/A(E) by Dr Alexander Van der Bellen, Members and colleagues on the human rights situation in Turkey (2176 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23175	We come to points 11 and 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23202	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The President-in-Office has read the content of the points. Both of these are calls for Turkey to stop human rights violations and, I am now saying quite clearly, to adhere to or introduce European and international standards on human rights. In particular, if negotiations on accession to the EU are open here, it is necessary, I believe, for Turkey to take steps to show that it is serious, for example, with freedom of religion – we still have a point on the agenda on the Mor Gabriel monastery, where we will also discuss it briefly – with freedom of the press, protection of minorities, equality of opportunity et cetera. Now we are not here to play senior teachers, but I believe that it is a human right and a command of the hour that all countries comply with international standards. Much has already happened in Turkey, and it must not be denied either. I am thinking, for example, of abolishing the death penalty, while in many other countries, such as the US, there is still the death penalty. [[Abg. Scheibner: Great, is European standard!]] In Turkey, this 2002 was abolished for peace periods, 2004 for all time. I believe it is also necessary to recognise that there is progress in development, but these are still far from standards. As far as freedom of religion is concerned, this is a chapter of its own, not just for Turkey but for many Islamic states. Yesterday in the “Kurier” there was the title – and it is a special concern for me to point it out: “Today, Christians are in the visor of Islamists”. And there it says: “In Saudi Arabia, Christians are generally forbidden to exercise their faith, Muslims who convert threaten the death penalty. And in North Korea, according to the organization ‘Open Doors’, which is opposed to Christian persecution worldwide, the situation is worst. 70,000 North Korean brothers and sisters were interned in camps. Globally, 100 million Christians would be persecuted.” This must also be pointed out by speaking exemplaryly about respect for human rights in a country. We should always put our fingers in the wounds and not stop talking about it, because the drop is hollowing the stone. I'm convinced that even here the steady drop will cave the stone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23239	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23260	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The violent conflict between Turkey and the Kurdish PKK has cost well over 30,000 people over the past 30 years and prevented a whole region from developing peacefully. Since the end of 2012, the Turkish Government and the Kurd Party PDP and PKK have now made every effort to resume the peace talks. These are hopeful developments – with all due care that is required here. However, the process is still on very wobbly legs. This has the murder of the three PKK activists on the 10th. January in Paris. The exact background of the act is still unclear, but the reactions on both sides have made it clear that there is both Turkish and Kurdish opponents of the peace initiative. The fact that despite mutual debt allocations, the discussions have not been terminated, but have been continued, is already an encouraging sign. A peaceful solution to the conflict would hopefully be the end of the terrible violence and human rights violations, which are particularly affected by the Kurdish population. This, ladies and gentlemen, would be an extremely important contribution to stabilising the region. As a result, the security of Austria and the EU also depends on, i.e. this also has a great importance for the security of Austria and the EU. The present proposal calls on the Austrian Government to actively and sustainablely support peace negotiations both bilaterally and at EU level and at Council level. I hope that a broad agreement will be reached here in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23297	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Nice. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: I do not want to speak! It's been so beautifully spoken!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23335	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Both of these proposals are about the very precarious and problematic human rights situation in Turkey for years. In the second request, tabled by Professor Van der Bellen and I on improving the human rights situation in Turkey, we have once again pointed out that, in particular, the freedom of expression and freedom of the press in Turkey have been under great pressure for a long time, but especially in the last two or three years, that dozen journalists are in prison. and were sometimes held in prison for months, some years, even without any concrete accusation, without any specific procedure. Meanwhile, some of these journalists were released, but others were arrested instead. About two weeks ago, there was a great wave of arrests by trade unionists and trade unionists. Unfortunately, the list of examples could continue. In other words, the human rights situation in Turkey is still precarious, although improvements have also been achieved in recent years in the course of the EU accession negotiations and some laws have been modernised and improved. Nevertheless, freedom of expression and freedom of religion – which we will talk about at the later items on the agenda – remain under great pressure. All the more so, we believe it is our duty to become active together and also to call on the Austrian Federal Government to become active and to work in bilateral talks, but also in the context of the EU, to improve the human rights situation, freedom of the press and freedom of expression in Turkey. I am very pleased that our request was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Foreign Policy. I assume that this will also be the case today, and we are very pleased that we are speaking in the National Council with one voice on the human rights situation – in this case in Turkey. For the first time: We will also support this request by Mr Muttonen and Mr Amon. We are pleased that, in relation to this very bloody conflict, which has now fallen victim to thousands of people, both on the Kurdish side and on the Turkish side, there is now a little hope that it can be settled. At the end of 2012, negotiations between the Turkish government and the PKK began, and despite the murder of three Kurdish activists mentioned by the colleague, there is hope that the negotiations and the talks will continue. Our task and the task of the Austrian Federal Government is to support these efforts by strength so that this conflict can finally be resolved and settled on a political basis so that Kurds and Kurds can secure their human rights, as minority members, as citizens of Turkey, of course, be equipped with the same rights and can live in security and peace. A resolution of this conflict is in the interests of all in this country, but also of the region and throughout Europe. In this sense, I would like to thank you for supporting these two requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23389	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23411	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary Lopatka – I wake up You just briefly, but I would have liked to know about you like yours... – I say that, dear friend! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Clickovits.]] You've just gotten smarter, but now it's really about something significant, about a promise. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Maizovits and Mr Eßl.]] - I'll be right there, my dear colleague. It's about a promise. We are now talking about Turkey, candidate for accession to the European Union, if you did not know, and about the human rights situation there. There was a promise. Mr Cap, I can still remember that there have been impressive speeches here, which, I believe, was in favour of Mr Lopatka at the time. We are all very skeptical about the possibility of Turkey becoming a member of the European Union. In my opinion, it is totally missing to conduct these negotiations in this way. It would be a failure to enter into a tailor-made partnership with the strategically important country than now to negotiate a full accession which, as I believe, can never be realized. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] But – and this is important now – there is a promise of this House – not only the Federal Government, because federal governments are coming and going, but this House, the National Council, that in Austria, these accession negotiations should once be brought to an end, no matter when that is, a mandatory referendum will be held on it. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Mr. Cap, that's what you're giving me? Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, are you right? - That's it. Mr. State Secretary Lopatka, in tomorrow's newspaper, I'm suddenly reading... – I'm telling you now. [[Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka: What do I say?]] I hope you know for yourself what you said. In any case, the heading reads as follows: “A referendum on Turkey’s accession to the EU.” – Yes, but what do you say? [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: I'm not saying that!]] [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: I'm not saying that!]] – You praise the positive signals of Turkey, and then you say: ‘In the light of new developments in Turkey and the accession process, the next government must assess the state of the negotiations. The principle of continuity does not exist,” says Lopatka. “It refers to whether there should be a referendum before accession or not. [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: No, you say that again!]] - No, I don't say that! Then demente it! I'm just asking a question. It is important for us here and, I believe, also for the Austrians, that we are not relativising what we have decided unanimously here. This is also important for the Austrians! Should there be a conclusion of these accession negotiations with Turkey, there must be a referendum on this in Austria! [[As a result, BZÖ, FPÖ and SPÖ representatives are welcome.]] I would therefore have liked to hear from you today that this report is wrong. Then everything's all right. I would have liked to hear that this is wrong and that our consensus on referendum continues to apply, because, ladies and gentlemen, we will also agree to these two requests – no question at all. But it is unusual that it is at all necessary to call on a candidate country of the European Union, a country that wants to belong to Europe itself, because a small part is geographically part of Europe, to apply human rights, in particular the right to freedom of the press and opinion, to protect journalists, to release journalists and politicians who are detained by criminal prosecution. Turkey is invited to implement the United Nations Protocol against Torture, and it is hoped that negotiations with the PKK will not be disrupted by mutual violence. Just to remember: Turkey has also taken action with tanks and with combat aircraft against villages outside Turkey, including the civilian population, just because it has been said that the PKK is hidden. If that makes another country, there are sanctions, there are resolutions, there is a lot of criticism. With Turkey, all of this is very quiet and quiet. I'm just telling you: Measure with the same measure! There are probably in Europe, in the European Union, undisputed standards of human rights. If a country is not even prepared to comply – a country of the European Union is not even recognised in its independence, namely Cyprus – then there can actually be no accession negotiations with that country. We do not need to praise small things, but we should simply stand by these principles and these principles. Human rights are indivisible, whether America or others consider a country important or not. This principle should apply to us, and therefore, from our point of view, these two proposals are unfortunately necessary, but a country that is worthy of Europe is not a country if such applications are necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23522	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23543	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Today, Mr. Erdogan is in Austria, as you can learn from tomorrow's newspaper, on the occasion of the Alliance of Civilizations – civilisations; I read, I apologize. I assume that these requests, which we are now discussing, have already been made to the Federal Chancellor and to the Foreign Minister and that they have, of course, expressed in their bilateral talks with Mr Erdogan these concerns which the Austrian Parliament and the Austrian people are working on. As I was able to learn from media reports, Mr. Erdogan was recently with Mr. Federal Chancellor for dinner. I assume that you have sent it to him that he can do this at the same time, so that these applications will also have effect. Otherwise, I would ask myself what we are discussing here. We could do this quickly, because Mr Erdogan is in Austria. I think that would have been the right step. Maybe some have forgotten to say. 30 000 deaths on the side of the PKK were addressed, of which 5,000 were civilians. - That's a terrifying number. The civilian population is always one of the sufferers in such conflicts, and I believe that it is extremely necessary to act there. Mr Scheibner said this right before: An EU candidate who still has massive human rights violations on Kerbholz is not worthy of accession for me. At present, 63 journalists are in political detention in Turkey, and it is quite clear that they have perceived their freedom of expression. This is a total scandal for me. Ladies and gentlemen, these applications have their rights, but, as I said, I wonder why this is being dealt with only now, after Mr Erdogan is really in Austria and is the first person to respond. Why has the Federal Chancellor, why has the Foreign Minister not already done this on a bilateral basis today?
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23582	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23603	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! I had the opportunity to be an election observer in Turkey in June 2011. I was in the Kurdish region – not in Istanbul, not in Ankara, but in Van – and I was allowed to experience the situation there, I also experienced the explosive mood directly in the city, in front of the party headquarters of the Kurd Party BDP, saw the tanks there, also saw what was happening in front of the electoral venues, that some of them were also military in the constituencies. I have taken the opportunity to talk to voters on the ground, and I have of course come to know that many have still experienced that the parents have been taken out of their homes, so there is still much fear of the military, of the Turkish domination. - That's one thing. On the other hand, in the evening when it came to counting, we also noticed the explosive mood that prevailed there. It would often only be a small spark enough to let something explode. That there is now the possibility of peace negotiations, that the government party, the AK party, is now going to actually call on Öcalan, that is, the Kurd leader, and other representatives to negotiate peace, that it is possible that the Kurdish language is also used as an official language in processes, for example, and so on, I would already regard it as progress. In this sense, I hope that the acts of violence that we had to experience in the January of Paris are not something that, so to speak, stimulates this conflict again. We need stability in this area, which is an important strategic point here in Europe. It would really be desirable if after all these years this country could again experience stability, security and peace. In the Council of Europe, we have the opportunity to talk to the representatives of Turkey, but also the Kurds, also about the detention conditions of Öcalan, the fears and so on. If there is peace, if we as representatives of Austria can make a contribution to this in bilateral talks, then, I believe, this is a very important contribution to our Europe. If the opportunity has been taken – you may be able to provide information, Mr State Secretary, what has been discussed with Erdogan – then, I believe, this is an important contribution, another mosaic for peace negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23637	It has now become Mr. State Secretary Dr. Lopatka in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23658	Mrs Colleague, because you have referred to this – and I would also like to thank Mr Scheibner for asking me to comment on it: First point: A very large conference with 1,200 participants is currently taking place in Vienna on the issues raised on these two agenda items, and in particular on the rights of minorities – whether ethnic or religious. In all the discussions, which are held by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, by the Foreign Minister and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but also by me, we are of course constantly addressing these questions, in order to say this quite clearly. The second point, also very clearly with regard to Turkey: I ask you to distinguish between what journalists do – these are headlines and subtitles in articles – and what I have said. What I have said is the state of the Austrian constitution. I have pointed out quite clearly that there are not only statements that we want a referendum, but that is part of the government programme. And on the question of the journalist – it is popular at the moment to use this formulation – whether this is grounded in stone, I said that this will again be the case with the next federal government, during the negotiations for the next government programme. We have the principle of discontinuity, and I assume that what this Federal Government has established remains. Since this Federal Government is working successfully, these parties will also be involved in the next government negotiations and will not change their position. [[Abg. Scheibner: So are you now for a referendum?]] So it is not a deviation from what we have said, but quite clearly – and I repeat it again for you, Mr Scheibner, which is also read in this article: I have said that the next federal government, or whoever will lead the negotiations, will have the status to be evaluated, and then one will come to the conclusion that there will be a referendum. Let's say it again. Read exactly what I have said, that is exactly what I am saying here, and that is not a millimeter other than in this article. The second point, Mr Scheibner, is that: I'm not just talking about these issues, I'm doing something. I was in Mor Gabriel and I am in close contact with the affected religious minorities there because you also have to do something. I have discussed the issue with the Turkish Minister for Europe Bagis. There is now a highly judicial decision, and the monastery, unfortunately, although it has had the possessions for centuries, has lost this dispute, because there is no basic book like ours. But the Minister of Europe, and this is a pleasure, has assured me that he will now continue these negotiations at the political level. He could also have put himself on the legal point: High court decision, we're not doing anything anymore. What do I want to say? We can't make it easy here. Unfortunately, it is much more complicated than one often believes. Turkey is the only stable factor in this region. Look at the neighbouring states! We can't close the doors. Therefore, France, which had closed the doors, and also Germany – read after, Turkey is very active these days, Erdogan is on the road in Europe – said: Let us start these negotiations again! There's a chapter where the French say they're ready to open it. That is why we are still in negotiations with Turkey, but it is not at all foreseeable, even as far as the next legislative period is concerned, when these negotiations can be concluded, because there is a huge contrast: on the one hand, the economic dynamic in Turkey, the progress that has to be recognized, a lot is happening. I wish for the euro zone to be closer to the economic growth that Turkey has. On the other hand, on the other hand, these are the human rights deficits. There's nothing nice to talk about. We're talking about it all the time. We support all initiatives to make progress. Member of the European Parliament, of the one part, and Mr Grossruck, of the other part, mentioned an important point: Of course, it is European standard to abolish the death penalty, but there are other major states on this planet where we also note that the death penalty is still part of the legal order. That is why I ask you to see what I said. I am glad that there is unanimity in the agenda item on the PKK. There have been tens of thousands of dead in the past, and now one is on one way to resolve these difficult questions peacefully. That's why I'm saying: Acknowledging progress, but not being blue-eyeed as far as Turkey is concerned! That's my point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23697	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23718	I would like to thank you once again for the clarifications made here by the Secretary of State, but I would like to add that the German Chancellor’s “Kurier” article really gave a clear position and said that there will be continuity in this demand that there be a referendum on Turkey’s arbitrary accession. The merits that Turkey has now acquired, especially in the Eastern Mediterranean, by acting there in accordance with its rules, are not acceptable, although it is possible to take critical positions there and there. However, the question of human rights alone is not the crucial question of whether Turkey joins, but it is also the question of whether a country like Turkey should join at all. [[Complementary by members of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] That is 68 or 70 million, and it is related to what this means economically from the integration capacity of the European Union. So there's a whole list of questions connected with it. That is what I place at the highest value when we discuss this. [[Abg. Oillinger: You should say something to Hungary too!]] And that is why we have to distinguish very clearly between the role of Turkey and the fact that we are highly interested in close, tailored cooperation with Turkey, and then finally deal with the question – as in many other applications for accession – whether we consider it to be useful at all and whether there can be a special, different form of economic cooperation for the Mediterranean region in general, including for other countries. The question already arises: Why are we talking so much about Turkey? For example, we could talk about Algeria, which has been associated with France as a colonial region for over 100 years, or about Morocco or Tunisia. This particular feature of Turkey has not yet been explained to me. That is why, I believe, this principle debate has to be held here, and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs we will certainly have the opportunity to do so in the future. But thank you again for the clarification.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23761	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We come to the vote on item 11 of the resolution attached to the Committee's report 2175 on the talks between the Turkish Government and the PKK's arrested leader, Abdullah Öcalan. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 292.) We come to the vote on item 12 on the agenda, the resolution on human rights in Turkey, annexed to the Committee's report 2176. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 293.) [[22:42:46]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on the proposal from Mr Franz Kirchgatterer, Mr Wolfgang Großruck, colleagues on the Universal Periodic Review process of the United Nations (2155 d.b.) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on the proposal from Mr Franz Kirchgatterer, Mr Wolfgang Großruck, colleagues on the reform of the European Court of Human Rights (2157 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23846	We come to points 13 and 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23876	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For us Social Democrats, the European Court of Human Rights is a very important institution. At present, it is particularly – and this shows the number of procedures, the number of convictions – a necessary spearhead for people in Eastern Europe and in South-East Europe to protect human rights. Unfortunately, there are new dangers and catch-up and replenishment needs there. The reform of the European Court of Human Rights should bring about faster procedures, improve the implementation of the judgments in the Council of Europe, but in no way make it difficult for access. Ladies and gentlemen! The use of Austria, the commitment of the Austrian Federal Government, is of great importance in Europe. The credibility of Austria also strengthens the implementation of the recommendations of the United Nations Human Rights Council, involving civil society in item 13 of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the Committee for its broad support and approval and here in plenary.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23913	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23934	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Although we all live in different societies with different rules, we have a common basis with human rights. These human rights were adopted in 30 articles with a UN convention in 1948. It has already been said: The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg is called upon to monitor it. If there was originally only the possibility of state complaints, then – and that was very essential – the right of individual complaint. Only, it does not help any more if it cannot be practised, for example, if there are 150,000 cases. That's why it's about helping this right to break through. In essence, it is also about asking the Federal Government to support all measures here that can help to bring this right to people's good for the breakthrough. I ask for the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23967	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e23989	Yes, we have still agreed here in committee, but there is now a change in our position. The reason was the decision of the European Court of Human Rights published last week by Mr Graupner on unknown patients against the Republic of Austria. [[Abg. Bayr: Whom you congratulated for the process management in Strasbourg!]] - He made this very excellent. We were both there. This has done very well and has also been very successful, as you can see from the published decision, while our representative of the Republic of Austria – I don't want to call anyone and make them bad – has been suboptimal. But that's not what it's all about. It is about the fact that we now have a decision where, in my opinion, the European Court of Justice has misused its powers and, under the pretext of protecting human rights for privacy and non-discrimination, we want to re-write our civil law, namely our family law, and to prescribe to us a complaint by the two patients of Mr Graupner, how we have the right to adopt it. And that can't be! A self-confidence state is at least entitled to make its family law autonomous and according to the wishes of its people, as represented by Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe – and I even turn to Mr Korun – that we should all, whether we like the decision or not, nevertheless have the primacy to regulate the living together of our people, the regulation of family law, the regulation of position father/mother/child, the regulation of family, the regulation of who adopts who can replace a father himself. It must be possible for a society to do something on its own. This cannot be done by a political court such as the European Court of Human Rights. It is not acceptable for such people to decide whether a physical father is replaced against his will by the same-sex new life partner of the physical mother. That's what we want to decide here ourselves. However, the application goes in the opposite direction: It wants to strengthen the European Court of Justice. The last point is well known to constantly improve the implementation of the ECHR and EGMR judgments by the Council of Europe, including Austria. That's not the right direction. I believe that this decision must lead us to a radical rethinking and let us consider whether we should not demand a reform of the overall system here. It is about testing the overall system and also questioning it and getting a solution where such things are no longer possible. First consideration: Does the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights in Austria have to remain in the constitutional order permanently? In Germany, for example, it is not. Therefore, I invite everyone to confess either that we will be free to implement decisions from the outside and without criticism – then we must support all that is then on the table – or to consider whether we want to maintain or strengthen our national sovereignty on this central issue. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We therefore have in plenary a clear no on this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24037	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24059	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the proposal for the reform of the European Court of Human Rights is concerned, we are very pleased and satisfied that most of the Committee on Human Rights and, hopefully, the majority in the National Council's plenary will vote in favour of this proposal. In particular, we support the thrust that we, as representatives of the Republic, face trials and prevent individual complaints from being undermined or further restricted by the European Court of Human Rights. The fact that some political directions do not match the decisions of the EGMR has just proved to be the speech of Mr Hübner. We assume that the European Convention on Human Rights, which was and is a very advanced document, will continue to remain in the constitutional rank in the Republic, and we already want to reject what Mr Hübner and the Liberals have announced, namely that the European Convention on Human Rights should no longer be in the constitutional rank. I would like to make a brief comment on the first request, since it is important to implement the recommendations of the United Nations Universal Periodic Review Process adopted by Austria. This is, in our opinion, a no-na request. It should be obvious that it is just in the recommendations adopted in this process that the government should: Further progress will be made in order to implement these adopted recommendations. In this respect, the application is not quite understandable why it is necessary to request that the recommendations adopted be implemented. In this context, two important points: The Ministry of the Interior has so far failed to work on the implementation of the adopted recommendations, with the convocation of human rights NGOs. Perhaps this request was intended to move the Ministry of the Interior a little bit. If that is the case, we welcome it. Secondly, one of the recommendations adopted is to implement further measures to combat all forms of discrimination. This would mean that all discrimination statistics are taken into account in the Equal Treatment Act and that the victims of all forms of discrimination receive the same protection – keyword: homosexual people. However, this is the very project that has been removed from the innovation of the law on equal treatment. We also assume that, if this proposal is now adopted by a majority, it will continue to work on or even work on the implementation of this recommendation. In this sense: full support also for this request from us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24104	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24125	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Yes, it is about human rights and this human rights committee that we have had. There, I think, is measured once again by two measures. Let's just take my request regarding the Beneš decree, already submitted by us often. He's been postponed once again. One of the greatest examples of injustice that has ever occurred in Europe is really negated. We need to know that these Beneš decrees are still legally valid today. This is also the main issue between all sales associations in Austria, Germany, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. And we're still nagging that today! I believe that with the fact that this motion for a resolution has been postponed in this Committee on Human Rights, we have adopted all human rights and no longer have a right to talk about human rights. Mr. State Secretary, is it today, in the 21st century? Century, still necessary that murder, torture, exorcism, that one would cover governments that one is not willing to recognize this calamity?- Oh, my God! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Mr State Secretary, I have already told you in committee that I know a 89-year-old woman in the Kitzbühel district. This woman was 14 years old when she was displaced. Her twin sister is starved on the run; the mother was beaten with a shovel. This lady is now 89 years old and says: Member, I don't want any money! It's not about money. It's not about reparation. – By the way: They also owned a 300-hectare farm. It's not about money. It's not about a return. It is only our concern that this injustice should finally end! Mr State Secretary, in my motion there is nothing in it but to ask you to report to the Committee, to Parliament, on the results of the Historical Commission. But you refuse that too! With this of yours I can tell you that if you have adopted human rights, every human right will be trampled on by you. We are discussing human rights here, and I would like to say something about it: Today the Special Representative of His Holiness of the Dalai Lama was with us in Parliament. He sent us a letter pointing out: In 2012, 83 people were burned in Tibet. Five were killed by the Chinese authorities, including children under 15 years of age. Mr State Secretary, I would ask you to put pressure on the European Union because I know that Austria alone cannot do anything against China. But if we somehow come into dependence with such agreements in the same way as before in Vietnam, we can never defend human rights. Speak to this on every occasion, Mr State Secretary, because the people are satisfied that human rights are being trampled on! In order to respect human rights, you must finally do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24186	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24207	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have joined the Committee on Human Rights, 13th century. As is apparent in the Minutes, many issues concern what happens to human rights violations in other countries as well. If one hears that the current Assad regime is causing serious human rights violations in Syria, if one reads that there are tendencies in Egypt that democratically elected President Mursi could turn Egypt into a regime in which the rights of minorities such as Christians, but also in particular women's rights, are seriously disregarded, and if one also knows that in the neighbouring country of Hungary, in recent years, the Hungarian government had to take serious criticism from the European Union in respect of respect of European rights, European values, then one can say: Praised country of Austria, as far as human rights are concerned! As far as these two proposals are concerned, which we are now discussing and will also vote on: Of course, Austria also fulfils its obligation to work on the implementation of the recommendations of the United Nations Human Rights Council and to take the human rights situation seriously in Austria as well. The request made by Members Kirchgatterer, Großruck, ladies and gentlemen sets out the further procedure here. The same mandate applies to the second request, namely that concerning the reform of the European Court of Human Rights. In recent years, Austria has been successfully engaged in the European reform discussion on improving human rights in Europe in order to ensure that, in the framework of the Brighton Declaration, the 20th anniversary of the The commitments of the States are also implemented accordingly on April 2012. Both requests, ladies and gentlemen, are further steps towards an even better human rights situation in Austria and Europe, and therefore also to support them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24249	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24271	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Human rights are important to us. We in Austria are actually good, but we also work on improvements. In spring 2011, the United Nations Human Rights Council underwent a general examination of the human rights situation in Austria in the context of a universal state audit. This examination was part of a periodic review of their human rights situation by the Human Rights Council for all 192 UN Member States. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This assessment takes place every four years; Austria was the first time in 2011. An interim report will be submitted to the Human Rights Council in 2013 and will be updated in 2015 in the framework of the next periodic review on the implementation of the recommendations. In total, 161 recommendations were made by a wide variety of countries, but partly overlapd. Key recommendations have already been implemented, but now it is about real implementation of the other recommendations that have been adopted. Given the advanced period, I am saving you from listing all 161 recommendations now, but I can say that we are working in this direction with this motion for a resolution, and I would ask for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24307	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24328	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! On the subject of the European Court of Human Rights, it is not new that the number of cases that can be dealt with at present also has a bearing on some reforms carried out, but that up to 150,000 complaints are open and there is a large setback. So there is a need for reform. The whole has been triggered by a new protocol which highlights the protection of property. As already mentioned, there has recently been a great sensation for Austrian circumstances, which was a judgment concerning family law. But if one considers the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in history, this Court of Justice has very often taken very wise decisions, which often took a few years, perhaps a few years more, to hold back. One thing is certain, though, if you look at the figures: that countries that have very little to adapt their national law to the European Convention on Human Rights, most of them have complaints, such as Russia, for example, have 20 300 – but this is also true of the very high population of 142 million. Germany is also not poorly represented. It does not have the human rights convention in the Constitution, and there is a very high number of complaints, particularly in connection with property rights. It is important to support this request that the individual complaint can continue. The European Court of Human Rights is an internationally recognised instrument to bring a significantly more intensive representation of human rights to the individual nations – in the European area with at least 800 million people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24371	No further words are available. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First: Vote on item 13 adopted by the Resolution on the Universal Periodic Review Process of the United Nations annexed to the Committee's report 2155 of the Supplements. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 294.) Vote on item 14 of the agenda to adopt the resolution on reform of the European Court of Human Rights annexed to the Committee's report 2157. Whoever supports this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 295.) [[23:05:22]] 15. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on the proposal for 1953/A(E) by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Franz Kirchgatterer, colleagues, on the preservation of the Mor Gabriel monastery and support for the rights of the Christian minority in Turkey (2156 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24435	We're coming to 15. Agenda item. Mrs Gessl-Ranftl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24459	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mor Gabriel Monastery is one of the oldest Christian monasteries in the world. The fact that the cassation court in Ankara has ruled against the monastery after years of legal dispute certainly sends an alarming signal to the Christian minority. After all, some 100 000 Christians live in all denominations in Turkey, and this judgment against the monastery of Mor Gabriel is a setback for the entire Syrian Orthodox community in Turkey. It must also be noted that Turkey has signed all the relevant international but also European conventions – conventions that guarantee civil rights such as religious freedom. At the preservation of the Mor Gabriel monastery, however, it will also show how seriously these conventions are actually meant. I particularly address the rights of freedom. The State of Turkey is required – it would be time to think about how to deal with minorities. It should also be noted that the Syrian Orthodox Church can fully exercise its rights and maintain the status of a legal personality. This motion, which is now being put to the vote today in plenary session, has already been adopted unanimously in the Committee, and it is clear from this that this is not the case. that violations of human rights are taken very seriously in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24499	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24520	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Secretary of State actually entered this item earlier and explained to us that the Turkish side is ready to achieve a positive outcome on the part of the government. I think this is also very necessary, because in 2009, Mr Hagenhofer and I made a request to the Human Rights Committee, and now again one of the Members has been put forward. This shows that for four years nothing has actually developed in this subject. I think we should always put our fingers in the wound here again and again – until there is a positive result. In the previous year, the German Bundestag also dealt with a motion for a resolution, which is similar to ours in a word. He also points out that there is a need for action here, that an old cultural property – you have to imagine, this monastery dates back to the third, fourth century AD – is simply deprived of the basis of life by the fact that religious communities in Turkey have no legal personality and have been automatically expropriated in the forest area, in the forest area of more than 300 000 square meters. These are conditions which one considers impossible in a rule of law, but which are currently law in Turkey. I think there is also a great need for action here. I should like to ask the Secretary of State to negotiate actively for a solution. We are also guilty of the Christian minorities, the Christian Orthodox Church. Last year, the archbishop of Aleppo, Gregory Yohanna, was here in Parliament, and we were also at the Minister of Science, because it is planned to set up a chair for Syrian Orthodox Christians at the University of Salzburg – I may also ask for your support – the only one around the world. That would be a great opportunity for Austria. I just wanted to tell you in general that there are efforts in this regard to maintain and maintain this religion that speaks Aramaic, which is the same language that Jesus Christ also spoke. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24553	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24575	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr State Secretary, thank you very much for your efforts and support in relation to the Germans in Slovenia. I would like to say thank you here. Secondly, I do not wish to disagree with Mr Huber's comments: The Beneš decree, also new laws concerning the German minority, is a further discussion, sometime, really worth it and should be discussed in depth. A shame for the Europe of the 21st century. 19th century! However, I am now responding to the request under discussion. I think the previous speakers have already made this very clear. It is about Turkey again and again. It is about Turkey again and again, not only the strategic and the minorities alone, but it is all about the way and perhaps also about thinking. This motion for a resolution says nothing but to oppose, among other things, the disadvantage of Christian, Jewish and other religious minorities. A second point, which was also essential, was this monastery Mor Gabriel. To the story – I repeat some facts again –: It is one of the oldest Christian monasteries, 397 according to Christ. Consider how valuable this is as a cultural property. It is one of the last intact Christian monasteries as a spiritual, cultural heritage and center of the Syrian Orthodox Christians of Southeast Anatolia. And the monastery plays a crucial role in the care of the Syrian Orthodox Church and its Syrian-Aramean liturgy, as we heard before. A deterioration of the framework conditions – I do not quote that the state has reduced the ownership of this monastery, I do not mention that there is not even the right to a training site, I do not mention that there is no right to entertain religious foundations and schools either – that is a shame. The Federal Government is invited to take action. Only: How is she supposed to be? Blue-eyed – we just talk and talk and talk and put no action! I therefore ask you to support the following request – I do not need to read the facts individually, I will simply point to the diversity, cultural, cultural value, even the perhaps spiritual value of this monastery. [[Quoted print version removed]] Let us take a look at the fact that this is actually how the ladies and gentlemen, mainly gentlemen of course, behave on the Bosporus. Next story: If you already talk about religious minorities, I would recommend to everyone, including the ladies and gentlemen in the Middle East, to read “Nathan the Way” of Lessing. In it there is this beautiful ring parabola. Perhaps once in the National Council would be an idea to discuss this. We have not only Turkey, we also have the Middle East. ==References== In the 20th century there were 20 percent Christians, today there are only more than 5 percent. The Foreign Minister has really committed himself to many human rights in Saudi Arabia, but I am convinced that he has not talked about the Christian minority, because, as we know, it is also part of the royal house, the Wahabit doctrine, that everything is forbidden Christian. It is forbidden to introduce crosses or books – but perhaps one can introduce “Nathan the Way”, This book could have been given to the Sheikh without a doubt. That would also be a way of dealing with this. I would not like to quote the warning of the Catholic Church, the Conference of Bishops in Germany, where it is strongly warned that Christians would be persecuted, excluded and prevented from exercising their religion by radical Muslims. Or Egypt: 50,000 have been expelled, driven away since this beautiful spring revolution. However, I would also like to quote Bishop Kapellari from Graz, who says to the “Kurier” that tolerance cannot be a one-way road that only Christians commit. “In response to the persecution of Christians and other minorities, for example, in Islamicly dominated countries, not only Christians but politics, media and the whole of Western civil society would have to be more determined.” “Nathan the Wise”, Gotthold Ephraim Lessing says in this sense. Hundreds of millions of Christians are threatened by persecution. There are enough documents from amnesty international, Helpwerk Open Doors; I don't want to quote them all that would take an hour. A shame for the civilized world in Western Europe that we no longer do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24659	The motion for a resolution will be discussed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24722	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24744	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been mentioned by my previous speakers that there has already been a similar request to receive the Mor Gabriel monastery in Turkey in 2009. This request was adopted unanimously at the time, and I assume that this request will be adopted unanimously today. This new request has become necessary because in Turkey a court case has now been brought and this court proceedings have been lost by the monastery Mor Gabriel, and then most of the possession of the monastery has been confiscated by the Turkish state. We were also pleased to agree in the Human Rights Committee that we all want to work to preserve the above-mentioned monastery, as well as to acquire the right of religious minorities, including legal personality in Turkey, in order to be able to stand up for their concerns. I would also like to conclude by stressing that this is, of course, about the protection of minority rights, i.e. both of the right to free exercise of religion, but to the full extent also about the protection of minorities, because religious minorities throughout the world, in all countries, need to be safeguarded and safeguarded. We agree on this, which we are very pleased with as a green person. In this sense, we shall, of course, join this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24777	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24804	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Col. Hörl just brought me an idea with his scream, a fact you already have to tell me about. About the monastery We've heard a lot about Mor Gabriel. It's very, very old, it's an old cultural site, and we're sure to do everything we can to keep it. This Mor Gabriel is the same as the agricultural communities in Tyrol. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hörl.]] I have to tell you quite honestly, with your chatter you've taken it so far. But now without fun: It really is about human rights, it is about a monastery that is really a concern to each one of us. We've heard all about it now, and we don't need to go into it anymore. But we are Europe – we have heard from the ÖVP – and we are Europe, and we could do something already. We live in the 21st century. At the end of the century, and the EU is negotiating with Turkey at the moment to enter the EU at some point or bring it into any straight line. I believe it is already objectionable, it is simply not understandable, and as long as Christians in this country are persecuted as long as bishops, priests are murdered, mentally armed murderers are apparently classified as mentally ill and as long as Islam so threatens Christianity worldwide, I believe we simply have to be careful. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] None of us want any religion under any general suspicion, but we know that the North Africans are being trained in Pakistani terrorist camps. These Moroccans are trained in bombs, in explosion technology, in the killing of Christians. The Secretary of State will know that too. And such camps, too, we know, are partly financially supported by Turkey. It is therefore the highest requirement that we and our federal government call for us to say once in the EU who is to negotiate with and not with whom. Today, when young people are so trained by the Mullahs – the Mullahs are the Islamic legal teachers – that every conscience, over every bit of conscience, is passed over, we really have to face it. I would also like to say one thing – Mr Hörl – that you will give me the right: If in Telfs in Tyrol an Imam were to bend even one hair, there would be such a tremendous cry in Turkey that Tyrol would still tremble. And we expect a similar reaction, too. For example, the murderer of Bishop Luigi Padovese is, how could it be different, mentally ill and comes into an institution for a few years. The killer of Santoro, a Catholic priest in Trabzon in Turkey, has also been classified as mentally disturbed. There have been many murders, which do not carry out the investigation, so it is, I mean, simply to be guilty of Christians. The fact that Christians worldwide are being persecuted in this way is largely the fault of the EU, for the EU should act at least as much as the Muslim world does. [[Call the ÖVP: Go, stop!]] A Mrs Merkel, an Austrian federal government must consider who they are negotiating with and who is not involved in this idea, because this is about human rights. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It cannot be that when Christians are persecuted worldwide, we watch, but always have the Black Peter. In this respect, our population is expecting something else!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24869	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24891	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Now I have the glasses, now I can read better. – Religionshass, crimes against humanity, says Mr. Erdogan in tomorrow’s “Kronen Zeitung”. Erdogan is quoted there, namely: The cause of wars is not religions, the appeal to religion abuse. Religions are peaceful, hatred against religions is a crime against humanity. What is it like in Turkey in this regard? – There Christianity is very well suppressed, which shows many examples, colleague Huber has brought some, such as these murders of Christian priests. Ewald Stadler presented a case here a year ago and showed how brutal and bestial these priests were murdered. It didn't help him, even though he was walking on the street calling for help, Just left him to the left, the murderer could crush the priest in front of the viewer's eyes. And that's something to think about. I now come to this monastery to speak, it is one of the oldest Christian monasteries in the world and has existed for 1,600 years. And now, in Turkey, a judgment – I would like to say it this way: a rather Muslim judgment; otherwise I cannot explain it – is taken that contradicts what Mr Erdogan has given of himself here today. The Republic of Turkey joined the Treaty of Lausanne on 24 July. On July 23, 1923, Turkish citizens who do not belong to the Muslim faith are equal citizens with the same political rights. We all know from various reports that this is not the case in Turkey. I think there is still a great deal of information to be done. I think that the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister have addressed this issue at today's meeting with the Turkish Prime Minister. We will vote in favour of Mr Riemer's request by the FPÖ. I think that is a reasonable request. Something that is 1,600 years old belongs to the World Heritage Site, it is one of the Christian roots. You can only support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24936	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e24957	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot join the motion for a resolution because the monastery Mor Gabriel has already been declared UNESCO World Heritage Site. - That's the first one. You can fulfill your wishes as quickly as you like. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Secondly, The monastery of Mor Gabriel was not only a political one in 2008 but also a political one in 1915, because the Armenians killed the Christian Assyrians in the genocide of 1915. There were also the Christian Assyrians there. The problem of the Christian Assyrians is that they are not recognized as a minority and therefore also the recognition by Turkey is not there to see it as a minority in its monastery, so to speak. What is it about? – Three villages around the monastery have been entitled to the lands. It is already negotiating the monastery in several court hearings – there are already four court hearings in which the expropriation of these lands is repeated. On the one hand, the court has decided that this expropriation was not justified because the monastery itself has paid land tax for these lands since 1937, but on the other hand, the Cassation Court in Ankara has reversed this decision, and that is not correct. The fact that it is very, very difficult for this monastery now also shows that there are now only three monks and 14 nuns. Nevertheless, in the summer very, very many Christian Assyrians go there who want to learn Aramaic language. But because they are not recognized as a minority, it is quite simply necessary that it be supported and borne by an association, by a foundation. Many families who were expelled at the time try to settle back there. However, they will not succeed as long as there are such actions in Turkey. The monastery has now announced that it will fight this judgment again at the European Court of Human Rights. And I would like to say once again to you, Mr State Secretary, that you are holding the talks – you also confirmed in my question in 2009 that you will do so – that human rights are being respected and that the Mor Gabriel monastery can continue to exist.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25006	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25027	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A few brief comments on this request. In my view, this decision, which is apparently taken unanimously, not only supports the monastery of Mor Gabriel, but also makes it clear that national democratically elected parliaments also have obligations beyond their own national sphere of influence. I think it is a very essential obligation for a people's representation, for respect for human rights and for the protection of minorities worldwide, especially when, as in the present case, States have signed the relevant Treaties, such as the Council of Europe's Convention on Human Rights and the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, as well as in the present case. They have also entered into commitments. However, the dilemma of the Syrian Orthodox Church – and this has already been said by Mr Lueger – is that she was not recognized as a religious minority in the Treaty of Lausanne. It is therefore also a matter of legal personality in the present proposal. The judgment of November threatens the monastery in its economic survival, but also in its cultural and religious foundations, the monastery is threatened, on the one hand, by the prohibition of training priestly offspring – there has already been since about 1980 – and on the other hand by the prohibition to teach Aramaic language, i.e. the original language of Christianity, in the context of teaching. I do not think that there is a good idea in the proposal by Mr Huber that the dialogue with Turkey should not be carried out or that it should be put on the table. I believe that the progress that has been made for religious minorities in recent years – and this has been done – has been due to the drilling of the hard boards and the dialogue that the European Union is having with Turkey. In summary, you can say: We therefore fulfil a very important task, namely to urge and demand respect for human rights worldwide, and it is very much hoped that this request, as well as other similar requests from other Parliaments, will support and positively influence the line of argument of the monastery at the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25070	There is no longer any mention of words to that effect. I'll close the debate. We come to the vote on the resolution on the Committee's report 2156 on the preservation of the Mor Gabriel monastery and the support of the rights of the Christian minority in Turkey. I would like to ask all Members who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 296.) President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The request is rejected. [[Abg. Grandruck: Is already one!]] [[23:31:02]] 16. Point report of the Committee on Human Rights on the Citizens' Initiative (32/BI): “Stops sex trafficking with children & adolescents” (2158 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25121	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25148	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The concern of this petition “Stops sex trafficking with children & young people” was and is to protect children and young people from exploitation in any form, but above all sexual exploitation. This important issue has been supported by 55 000 people in Austria as part of a global initiative. Much has also happened since this petition was received in Parliament in the summer of 2011. After we received numerous comments from various ministries, on 12 November we were able to find a solution to this problem. March 2012 held a hearing on this subject, in which numerous experts from child protection organisations, as well as representatives of various ministries and, of course, also the rulers of this citizen initiative itself took part. In addition, an exhibition on human trafficking in the Epstein Palace took place on the second week of December last year at the decision of the Committee on Petitions. All these activities underline how seriously this issue is and has been taken by Parliament. There are three important points to be taken into account in the intensive discussion on this subject: 16 percent of the victims of trafficking in human beings in Europe are children, two thirds of them girls. In order to be able to fight against it, it is important to raise awareness of the population for the various forms of trafficking in human beings and children. Children are not only exploited sexually, but also forced to beg or commit criminal acts. Victims of child trafficking must be cared for professionally and informed about their rights, otherwise there is a risk that they will be repeatedly sacrificed. Therefore, for example, the Ministry of the Interior for the establishment of appropriate crisis intervention agencies in Romania and Bulgaria has been involved. And in the upcoming novel on the crime-offering law, victims of trafficking in human beings are also compensated. The young people's well-being in the federal states are responsible for the victims of child trafficking. There are a variety of care offers that concern affected children Take care of it. In this context, it is important to combine, coordinate and strive for uniform standards. I just want to see the “driving disc ” in the 20th century. The district is a well-known institution. I would also like to mention the Task Force, which has been in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since 2004. Within the framework of this Task Force, there is also a working group on children's trafficking, which takes care of these points. There is also a third national action plan to combat trafficking in human beings. The motion for a resolution from the Human Rights Committee on the Citizens' Initiative calls on the Government to forward to Parliament all reports in this context, so that this issue of combating child trafficking remains on our agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25200	Next speaker: Mrs Marek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25221	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has already made a very detailed statement on the subject, including the motion for a resolution which we have adopted unanimously in the Committee. I believe there is unanimity and common awareness that we must work together against sexual exploitation of children. We have for many years had a very good cooperation between the departments within the Task Force. My colleague, Mr Lohfeyer, spoke about it. Ladies and gentlemen! What is particularly important, and the aim of the motion for a resolution is that we have the public that we create public awareness. Ladies and gentlemen, you are all multipliers. They all have an environment. We are concerned that we are aware that we must be aware that there can be children in our environment who may be affected by child trafficking. That is why it is also important that we look at all the information that is available that is being prepared by the Task Force and that we keep our eyes open and sensitive. The fact that the reports will also be sent to the National Council in the future, which will be discussed here, aims to make us more sensitive in the future, even more sensitive than before. I am therefore pleased that there is unanimity in this motion for a resolution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25251	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25273	First of all, thank you to my colleagues for making me aware of my mistake. But I am glad that I am in the right way of thinking that this is a world heritage. But thank you, we can always be. Thank you for the note. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] “Stops sex trafficking with children & young people”, this is a great story that has been initiated by the “Body Shop” and ECPAT child protection organization. Of course, what makes me thinkful is that the “Body Shop” – here I found something I didn’t do at the monastery – is actually part of the company L’Oréal with 2 800 branches in 65 countries. I wonder if this is almost an abuse of a business story. You'd have to be very careful. But this initiative is a global campaign. Is there any advertising here? It would also have to light up the backgrounds. Child prostitution is a billion-dollar business. 1.2 million children are being abused worldwide every year, according to the UN Children's Aid Agency, UNICEF. According to the International Organization for Migration, 7 billion to 10 billion US dollars will be earned with trafficking in human beings. This is more random than drug trafficking. An estimated 230 million minors – and now it's going to be exciting! – according to UNICEF, families, housing quarters and prisons and workplaces become victims of sexual violence year after year. Let's go further: We must not forget the fate of those children who are often held by perverses in cellars, losses in Germany, Belgium, Italy, France, perhaps also Austria and elsewhere. One sees as causes a moral-sitting decay of society, globalization of sex tourism, broken families, homes, poverty, and thus ensuring the survival of many families, wars and then also gangs that girls simply pick up to keep them as sex slaves, HIV protection – for some believe they have protection from it when dealing with children. But that would be harmless if you said that's the wide world. However, if one reads on the topic “Stopt Sex Trade” and looks at the Task Force Children’s Trade Group in Austria, then it says that in Austria there is a large dark field as regards the number of minor victims of sex trafficking. Austria is to be understood not only as a transit country but as a target country. That's where you take off your shoes. Victims mostly come from Southern Europe, Asian or African countries. If there is the Task Force for Prevention, for Victim Protection, for Law Enforcement, for an evaluation of the training of prosecutors, prosecutors, judges, judges or executives when Folder is filed, I wonder: Is that enough? Starting from the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights, there is a huge, exuberant concept of institutions, of federal ministries, of NGOs, of ECPAT and of UNICEF. Here you always talk about protecting the victims. I wonder, Do you help victims with prevention only through folder? - It can't be. I don't think that's enough. Who in the public in Austria knows about these activities at all? How did we make this known to the Austrians? What does it look like in Austria if police officers want to get closer to this so-called fine society, for example? How does that look? Is this riskless in Austria? [[Call the SPÖ: Time!]] [[Abg. Riepl: closing, please!]] There is something else that should not be insignificant. What is there in public places is a thoughtful one. Austria is the destination country. Do we all fail in active prevention? Or do we all have to look closer? The FPÖ supports this resolution, which calls on the Federal Government to forward to the National Council the current reports of the Task Force on trafficking in human beings. That's it, please, paper again! Where is the content? Where are the actions? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25331	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25352	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you very much to the initiators of this petition “Stops sex trafficking with children & young people”. These were mainly the organization ECPAT and also very many individuals, not only in Austria but also in other countries. It is very gratifying that so many people face sex trafficking with children and adolescents. They have not done so out of mere interest, but they have actually done so with the concrete objective of improving the existing structures. And that's where my criticism starts: As nice as I find the request of the government parties to make available to the National Council already on the Internet, a second time, or to forward, I must say: In fact, this will not solve the existing problems. The fact is, in most federal states, we unfortunately do not have efficient and effective structures to identify, care and care for victims of child trafficking. These structures are largely lacking. When you talk to people who deal with this topic, you hear behind your hand or under four eyes: Well, you know, there is no real interest in the federal states to do something about this or to improve it, so unfortunately we must be satisfied with sending reports to the National Council already available on the Internet! – The problem will not yet be solved, so we will support and vote in favour of the government proposal. It is important to know and not forget that the real concern of the people of ECPAT and many citizens who have been involved in this petition is not yet being implemented. I would like to stress that once again. And it doesn't help much more if we knock ourselves on our shoulder and say: Well, at least we unanimously adopt a request, if at the same time we are aware and have to be aware that care, identification and accommodation of victims of child trafficking in the federal states is not yet working. That's why we Greens will definitely stay there. That is why we have also made a request with the concrete aim of improving these structures in the federal states. It should not be a coincidence that this Green request has been postponed with the argument: Well, it happens anyway! We will stick to it and demand that this request should come back to the agenda soon, because it is certainly not enough that reports – in order to emphasize it again – are already being sent to the National Council by everyone who could have been interested, everyone and every one of us so far. This cannot yet be the success of this important citizens' initiative. We must continue to take concrete steps, even in the federal states, even if it is said in some federal states: With us there is no consciousness and interest! We owe it to the victims of child trafficking, that they can be quickly identified and that they also receive the best care and support they need as victims of child trafficking, of trafficking in human beings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25406	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25428	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As the Committee on Petitions, I am pleased that this important petition, supported by so many people, has found the right way in the Committee on Human Rights, unanimously. We also discussed this issue in the Committee on Petitions, there was a very comprehensive hearing. This is an area where we have to fight against abuse of children every day, abuse of children, trade in goods, exploitation of children, and the worldwide impact of about 1.2 million children. The dark number is very high. It is positive that the Human Rights Committee has also stressed once again the Task Force, which has been in place since 2009, which fights against trafficking in human beings. There is also a National Action Plan against trafficking in human beings which runs until 2014. But that's where I can join my previous speaker: The best instruments will not be useful if the implementation does not work in practice. The Länder have already been addressed: Especially the federal states act and react very differently here. Some federal states already have care facilities and are very well networked, others not again. Therefore, I think it is necessary for us to be aware that, on the one hand, cooperation between the institutions, the police, the youth welfare and the embassies must work well, that also the employees are well trained and that, above all, there is also the necessary financial resources for care facilities. I am also very pleased that on the occasion of this petition the long-standing hotline for missing children in the family ministry was set up in autumn of last year. It took a long time. This is also due to a request from us, by the BZÖ, because we have called for this very vehemently. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, since 2011, we have enshrined children's rights in the Constitution in Austria. In the national field, we must do a lot to protect children. This is a very big concern for us from BZÖ. We will probably also, next week in the Committee, decide on the new Youth Assistance Act, which we have been waiting for a very long time, with the appropriate framework conditions. Child protection is something that must and should be a very important concern at national level, but of course we also have to live up to our responsibilities on an international basis. This request, which we will of course also agree with today, must not be a conclusion or a calming down that everything is in order with us, but it must be the beginning of a permanent task that we have to inform and inform the people that we are looking and not looking away, that we make strict laws, that we provide working instruments and, above all, provide the necessary means so that this part of organised crime can really be resisted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25476	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25518	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking those who have brought in this petition, who have been committed to this subject. However, I would also like to point out that very good work has been done in the Committee on Petitions. Mr Lohfeyer has already reported on the hearing and the hiking exhibition, which should lead to more attention, more interest in all the federal states. And this is also the most important point that has already been mentioned by some speakers today: It is a matter of making this issue accessible to a broad public. That is also the content of this request. It is about trying together at the federal level, but also in the federal states and internationally, to address this problem with the regular annual reports, also constantly adapted. I would like to thank all those who are here in the boat for the broad agreement that a common success can also be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25548	Next speaker: Mr Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25569	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! At international level, the enforcement of children's rights and the protection of children from trafficking in human beings are priorities of Austrian foreign policy. Austria is an active partner of all major international agreements against trafficking in human beings. And also at national level – which has already been addressed by previous speakers – is the 3rd. National action plan to combat trafficking in human beings for the years 2012 to 2014 already in implementation. This is where the Task Force is working to combat trafficking in human beings, which, of course, sets out measures in the area of victim protection for children. This is very important for our group. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also pledged to continue to support and support the concerns of the fight against child trafficking and the best possible care for victims. You can never do enough in the fight against this hideous crime, in my opinion. And that is why the National Council here also wants to make its contribution to supporting the diverse activities against trafficking in human beings and, in particular, against trafficking in children. And that's good!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25600	Next speaker: Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25623	Mr President. High house! The basis for this agenda item is the citizens' initiative 32/BI “Stops sex trafficking with children & young people” – an initiative that the government is running into the open trade fair, because a task force has already been set up for this because there is already a national action plan. We have also contributed to this citizens' initiative at a widest level here in the House. We consulted six Federal Ministers on this subject and asked for opinions, held a hearing in the Committee on Petitions and discussed this issue in the Committee on Human Rights. The basis for this citizens' initiative is a media campaign of an online beauty product shipping trade, which has collected at least 55 000 signatures in Austria and seven million signatures in 20 countries, from 2009 to 2012. It has generated €70 000 in favour of this action. Unfortunately, how high the turnover of the shipping trade was in the same period for this campaign does not stand in there. What does the Federal Government now have in its National Action Plan for Results? – The BMI announced that it held four training courses on this issue between 06/2010 and 09/2011. A federal police trafficking shooting has been set up, which by the way is very complicated. – I read it three times, I couldn’t quote it out here. The Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of course supports ECPAT's campaign, sells hand creams – I do not know if it is a task of a ministry to support the sale of hand creams – and supports the Ambassador Tichy-Fisslberger as a national government coordinator with talks and press conferences. In 2011, the Federal Ministry of Justice held the seminar “Active Against Trafficking in Human Beings” for prosecutors and judges and financed the victim emergency call of the “Weiss Ring”. – We already have the second hotline. The Ministry of Labour says it has facilitated access to the labour market for victims. – There is nothing to say about it at all. The Federal Ministry of Women has supported and set up an intervention agency for the victims of trafficking in women, for women aged 16 and over. - The third hotline. The Federal Ministry of Economics has said it finances brochures and folder, has its own website violent info.at, conducts information events at schools for teachers and makes folder and roll-ups. And there's a registration address for children's sex tourism. - The fourth hotline. That is, six ministries operate several websites and four different hotlines on the same subject as a result of a National Action Plan. I don't know if that's really useful. There's a very clear emergency call from the police, number 133. And there was already a problem: When a boy from Perchtoldsdorf called and was unfortunately stuck on the Vienna emergency call, he was simply explained that he was not responsible. So with every other hotline you set up, with every other number you set up, there's a danger that someone will pick up there who doesn't understand the incoming call. I assume, for example, that if a Romanian girl who is towed to Austria is able to call and chat in German, there will be difficulties in understanding on the one hand. On the other hand, it is questionable whether the respective hotline feels responsible or if you simply say there – as it was in the case of the mentioned boy –: Unfortunately, we are not responsible! Finally, I can only say: I do not know whether it is the task of a parliamentary citizens' initiative to promote businesses financially. In any case, I would be pleased if a National Action Plan followed that the number of emergency numbers would be reduced to a single emergency number. Ladies and gentlemen, if you can't agree on red and black, then make She holds two emergency numbers: one for the red ministry and one for the black ministry, but not four different emergency numbers.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25696	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25718	High house! I do not want to disturb the mood under the motto “peace, joy, egg cake”, but the speeches – including those of the government representatives – on child trafficking and trafficking in human beings make me do it. Unfortunately, because of this “great” resolution by future popular lawyer Marek to believe that trafficking in children and people has ended in Austria, God is wrong. I would therefore also like to use this speech to raise awareness of the dangers present in Austria in the area of trafficking in children and human beings. What Mrs Korun did not say in her speech is that there is a UNICEF report from 2008 – I emphasize: by UNICEF, the UN Children's Assistance Office – where Austria is massively criticized that nothing is being done in our dealings with children and people, and that is condemned – I repeat: UNICEF 2008! – and by the way, it brings it into a direct connection with beggar crime. It calls for two major cities in Austria, namely the state capital of Vienna and the state capital Graz, and condemns Austria for doing so, and also urges us to remember that there is a direct link with the so-called bet-criminality in relation to the trafficking of children and human beings. If we want to reduce the trafficking of children and people in Austria, we must finally decide to take tougher action. Then: It is not a human right, Mrs Korun, that poor, old, sick and disabled people or school-based children should be exploited, that they should put their naked butt on the earth for a hunger wage, and that they would then, to a large extent, put things to their criminals. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It does not correspond to my world view, nor to my human world view, as we implement human rights in Austria, where, in cities such as Graz and Vienna, where you are responsible, you successfully take action to combat this beggar crime, this organized beggar crime, and thus become part of this human rights crime, that we as the civilized rule of law of the 21st century. permitted by the century [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Poverty is a crime, isn't it?- Oh, my God!]] You can still scream like that, Mrs Glawischnig, but: It is a crime to use poor, old, sick and disabled people to spend 90 percent of their daily wages on rearmen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And it's no human right to exploit children. It is a human right to seek help in a socially difficult situation, and it is a human rights obligation that Austria connects the social network so closely that bedding in our state, on our state grounds, has no justification because people have a clear social security. But it is not human right, colleague Glavischnig, colleague Korun, here to make beggar criminalism a trade, to make the Chamber of Commerce in the back of the House of Commerce and to let them earn a golden nose by allowing school-leaving children to be removed from school and then to sit in Austrian capitals at the arm of their parents as six-year-olds and seven-year-olds like little Kasperln on the street and get the pity of the people so that they can get money that they will have to spend again. These children, who are seven, eight years old and who actually deserve something better, should be educated in their home country, so that they will become something in the future and not the three-gross operas of Bert Brecht once again in the 21st century. Again in the century and here in Austria we have to experience betel crime in our big cities. That is why I am warning today at all the euphoria about this six-party agreement and in view of the statements made by government representatives and also by you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: We will have to take action in this area. To this end, the Constitutional Court, which, popularly speaking, imposes on us hopeful laws at country level, also imposes on us in a series of ways, as we know. In the fight against trafficking in human beings and children, there will have to be a federal legislation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25766	No further words are available. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution on reports on the fight against trafficking in human beings and the trafficking of children annexed to the Committee's report 2158. I would like to ask those Members who support this sign to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 297.) [[00:02:49]] 17. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 2147/A(E) by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the protection of the Arctic (2171 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25816	We're coming to the 17th. Agenda item. The debate opens up to Mr Gahr. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25840	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We will now come to the Arctic at a later hour, but there is a consensus on this subject. We all agree that there is a safe and sustainable habitat to be maintained with the Arctic. This five-party application gives the Federal Government a clear mandate to use itself nationally, internationally and at European level for the greatest possible protection of the Arctic habitat. It is in fact about climate change and The growing economic exploitation poses a risk that the Arctic ice melts. It is therefore important that we show closeness here and put ourselves in a global responsibility. I would like to thank the Greens who have taken the initiative here and brought together the parties. It is a sensible common concern, which we show solidarity and closeness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25876	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25898	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear colleague Gahr, in the north-west Greenland it is now around 7 p.m., that is prime time, main time. We are actually in a good time with our joint request. Mr Gahr, you mentioned the key points. Since the 1980s, the polar area's ice cap has been melted by almost 50 percent. There are therefore new ecological threats to this truly sensitive natural area, ranging from the exploitation of resources to the emergence of industrial fisheries to brutal wildlife and, above all, a race for resources. I am very pleased that we have succeeded in drawing up a joint proposal from this green initiative, which clearly states that Austria will be committed at all levels to the introduction of an international protection area for the North Pole region, that Austria – and that was the temporary bristle – will also use the Washington Convention for the Special Protection of the polar bears in March, and that we will also send a clear signal within the political framework by not giving export promotion to Austrian companies that could possibly come up with the idea of becoming economically active in the Arctic at the expense of the environment. In this sense, thank you very much for the joint initiative and for the unanimous approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25931	Next speaker: Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25952	Mr President. High house! As a child, I had a very personal relationship with the Arctic, but the house of my parents was in the Payergasse, the corner of Nansengasse – Payer and Nansen, two famous polar researchers in the Arctic. Of course, as an animal protector, I also know that the Arctic is habitat for 40 endangered species. It is therefore of course for me, as an animal protection speaker, that we like to support this request, yet there live polar bears, seals, whales, reindeer, caribus, musks, polar and ice foxes, snow hares, hermeline, lemmings and wolves. In the water, cod and herring swim, various whales such as blue whale, fin whale, Greenland whale, Narwal, humpback whales and dwarf whales. Bird species such as snow owls and white-headed eagles can also be found there. This ecosystem is now at risk from the reduction of oil and natural gas. We would have liked to agree to this request in committee, but Mr Auer, with his remarks, has provoked our group in the committee to the effect that he has forced them to leave. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are all the more pleased to be able to agree today. We are happy to support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e25998	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26019	Mr President. Minister for Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen, if someone is still watching us, let us see. Unfortunately, we are not quite up-to-date with this proposal, because the world day of the polar bear is over for a short time. Nevertheless, I believe it is a beautiful signal if we can decide together today to protect the polar bears and the Arctic. The polar bear has become a symbol of climate change and the decline of polar ice has become a endangered species. But the Arctic area is threatened not only by climate change, but also by economic exploitation, because the smaller the ice-covered area, the greater the economic interests of exploiting oil stocks there. This is why it is also important to grant the Arctic as an ecosystem the appropriate protection status. We made a request in December which, like most of the opposition proposals, was first postponed for security. I am pleased, however, that we have now achieved a five-party agreement in which the essentials of our demands have gone through. It is also very important – and this is why we are also involved – that we now decide on this protection status of the polar bear and the Arctic, because in March the Convention of the Contracting States will take place under the Washington Convention on Species, which will deal with the protection status of polar bears. It is important that the Minister of State should now be given a corresponding position by us and that he should be there for the highest possible protection of the polar bears. That is why I would also like to thank you for this cooperation, and I am pleased that we are taking this joint decision here. Even if the Minister is committed to ensuring that the Arctic becomes a protected area, even if the polar bear receives this protection status, that is not enough, because it takes some time for all of this to be established. Even now, oil and gas are being drilled, and there is a need for bans. I think we in Austria have to be so far that there are no export subsidies at all when Austrian companies are involved in this. That is why we need additional measures, and I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is therefore a matter of multi-layered measures to be taken, and with this request we will give you once again the opportunity to really give the Arctic as one of the unspoiled, unspoiled natural areas the necessary protection and thus also to protect the polar bears. If you want to protect the polar bears, you have to protect the Arctic and agree to this comprehensive package. I expect that we will not only perform in international conferences, but also do our homework. [[Abg. Scheibner: Protect the Austrian polar bears!]] This also includes the fact that Austrian companies, which are involved in industrial projects in some way in the Arctic, do not receive export subsidies. An important and essential task when it comes to the protection of polar bears and climate protection would be to make our homework a matter of climate protection too, and finally, I would address you, Minister of Agriculture, and the government parties, to ensure that CO2 emissions are reduced and not, as has been the case in recent years, to continue to rise. Another important measure: Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26106	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26197	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26219	Mr President. High house! The request has been fully discussed. I would also like to thank the Green Group for its idea and for its intention. The application covers three points: The first point is to strengthen itself in international bodies, European bodies and also in Austria to ensure that the Arctic becomes a comprehensive area of protection. Point two is the protection of the polar bear – according to the motto of the singers of grey zone: “I want to be an polar bear” – so that you can feel comfortable and protected in the Arctic and there is no more trading that is excessive. The third point is not to grant export support for environmentally hazardous projects on the part of Austria. – For that I say a thank you to the Greens. But what I criticise to the Green Group – and I would ask you, Mr Brunner – is the political reliability of the Greens, because we have discussed this proposal together in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and we have also formulated it together, and then you come back today and bring in a resolution which is much more comprehensive. One can do this, but I want to point out that what is being done together in the Committee is holding, and that this is the common summary of all the parties here in the House. I should like to make a few points on the Committee on the Environment. The agenda for the last Environment Committee meeting included a total of nine points. One of them was the general debate with the Minister, who is now behind me, who was partly satisfying, partly not very productive – especially in climate protection areas. All the other agenda items came from the opposition. Then the provocation on the part of the SPÖ towards the FPÖ's LED application came to condemn this too. We have problems with the government parties in the Environment Committee on several occasions, because in the environmental field, you do not have anything specific, as if the environmental issues were not important enough to deal with them, knowing that there are a lot of environmental applications from the three – or four – I do not know if you have already entered an environmental proposal in the back there – opposition parties. But I have to say one more thing to the Greens: This inadequacy continues with you, we have noticed today at the ban on speculation. Since you've been negotiating a little bit, then you'd be gone again, then you'd have a little bit of negotiation, then you'd be gone again. In the end, they also hesitate to ignore the ban on speculation. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Where's the connection?]] I don't understand. – This is related, Mr Rossmann. At the ESM you have not had a skruple to put billions on the table, to sacrifice on the altar of the European Union so that we have to pay for it. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Brunner and Mag. Rossmann.]] You didn't care. But when it comes to taking care of the taxpayers, you delay – that is the way the Greens do. What do I want to go out on? – You are not in government, at best on an ice fair with an polar bear, but not here in Austria! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Korun: What do they say?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, one thing you owe us: We have discussed intensively about an antiatomic application – Temelín, expansion of blocks 3 and 4. It has been said by the SPÖ Group that there is a request to be made at today's meeting, and there are negotiations. I miss him until today. If you want to remain credible, if you want to do nails with heads in the anti-atomic policy, Mr. Gaßner, then also submit the requests you announce and do not sneak easily and do nothing. This cannot be the case, because the BZÖ will guarantee that the nuclear power will continue to be actively and massively combated by Parliament in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26281	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26302	Mr President. High house! Estimated Minister! I would like to return to the subject of the request. What are we talking about? - To protect the Arctic. When it comes to the last great natural paradise of this earth, to preserving the Arctic ice and the polar bears, we need commitment, as we are quite convinced. The colleagues have already said how dramatic the situation is at present. The question remains: As a small country, can we do anything at all? – Yes, we are convinced that Austria can play a major role there. Austria has the great opportunity to act mediatingly and remind the big players of their responsibility towards nature. To leave and preserve an intact environment for our children and grandchildren is our goal. I believe that this is an objective that is worth fighting for, and I know it in good hands with our Minister for the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26332	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26356	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Protection of the Arctic is an important concern. The changes in the Arctic have a climatic impact on the whole world, by thawing the permafrost floor, through an increase in sea level. The UN presented a report on the UNEP, i.e. the UN Environment Programme, which says that the Arctic heats up twice as fast as the rest of the world. The thawing of the permafrost soil means that twelve times more methane is released into the atmosphere than other greenhouse gases. The ice area has decreased by 50 percent since the 1980s and 1990s. The Arctic is covered by a UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. It is therefore not possible to have its own Arctic Treaty, which is rejected at international level. However, as Mrs Aubauer has said, Austria is very likely to use international bodies at various levels to protect the Arctic – not only the Ministry of the Environment, but also other ministries such as the BMVIT or the Foreign Office. Austria, for example, wants an additional agreement on the Convention on the Law of the Sea in order to establish high sea protected areas and thus support the Arctic. In conclusion: The polar bear is the symbol of the Arctic and the symbol of climate change. In preparation for the next Conference of States Parties to the Washington Convention on Species Protection, Austria has advocated that the polar bear be included in the list set out in Annex 1, i.e. the most stringently protected animals. I thank you for this request and for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26389	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26410	Mr President. Estimated Minister for the Environment! There's almost nothing to add here. According to a UN study by UNEP, the exploitation of raw materials is increasing. In particular, this will be made possible by increasing melting of the sea ice ceiling and thus facilitating access to previously undiscovered natural gas and oil deposits. It is estimated that about 30 percent of undiscovered natural gas is found in the Arctic. That is why it is very, very important that we could find such a consensus here in the House. Mr Environment Minister, you will soon, in March, have the opportunity to articulate our demands at the Washington Convention on Species Protection. I also thank you on behalf of my group for the great consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26444	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26465	Mr President. Estimated Minister! It's a shame that time is already so advanced – I'd like to say so much – that's why I'm going to take a short look. I would like to join the Greens thank you for this important request and for having come to a five-party agreement. The symbol, the bear, comes from the Greek; Arctic is called Bear. But I want to come back to the Environment Committee. There wasn't the bear off, the liberals weren't there anymore. [[Calls to the Greens.]] It's the accusation in the room that there was a provocation from me. So that's really sad! I have explained in terms of content in another request that it is really impossible, as always, to deal with us when we postpone a request. It is now one of three ways to delay; I believe that you must finally remember this, as it were, by the opposition parties. We will decide in all cases in the future as we think it is right. It was not a provocation on my part, and the press release, which the FPÖ then made, is only a source of untruth. That's all I want to say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And maybe a little more humour – Mrs Brunner, perhaps a little more humor and not as much blasphemy as the chairman of the committee, I would also advise you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26516	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26538	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Even if, as a member of a government group, we are repeatedly criticized by the opposition party that we are adjourning all the requests, we can already say that we have succeeded in supporting together in the parliamentary operation a meaningful initiative of the Greens. I am pleased that we have carried this together in the Environment Committee and that we are calling on the Federal Government to work internationally for the greatest possible protection of the Arctic. I would like to mention one more point: In the historical review, today's decision also concludes a certain circle, which began with the Austrian-Hungarian Northern polar expedition of Payer and Weyprecht from 1872 to 1874, i.e. almost 140 years ago, with the Franz-Josef country. The goal was to obtain more information about the northern ice sea, among other things. After decades of discussions and sporting expedition competition, we have been able to work together scientifically here worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen! We can all make a valuable contribution here in Parliament by pushing energy efficiency and gradually changing to renewable energy. Let's see that we're working energy efficient here! This federal government also supports this path by means of the Ecostrom Act. I would like to thank you very much for this. Especially in my region, the wind power will be greatly increased in the next few years, which is also a valuable contribution to more energy efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26568	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26591	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] It has already been said a lot, but not yet by everyone. It's important to me to mention, just like previous speakers, that the ice in the Arctic melts massively. Unfortunately, ice-free areas continue to grow from year to year. This is also the reason why some companies have discovered economic interests in this regard when it comes to certain raw materials, in particular oil. In fact, a massive race for these raw materials has already been launched, as has been said, especially for oil. Ladies and gentlemen! A few figures that are not irrelevant in this context: In the last ten years, the ice pack has fallen by 11 percent. This is an area that is a total of 21 times the size of the entire Republic! I think that's a problem. This rapid decline in ice, of course, also threatens polar bears. Ladies and gentlemen! The melting of the Arctic has all the consequences for us, especially for the people of Europe, when the ice and snow surface of the Arctic is used as a refrigerator, as an air conditioning worldwide on this earth. You should take this into account. This refrigerator is important so that the earth is not heated up any more. If the cooling system, the refrigerator in the Arctic no longer works, this also means massive difficulties and consequences for Central Europe. The dry periods are increasing, there are more floods, there is extreme heat and cold. I think that's a problem. That's why there's a lot to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26641	There is no further statement of words to this effect. I therefore conclude the debate. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are going to vote. We shall vote on the resolution on the protection of the Arctic region annexed to the Committee's report 2171. I would ask those Members who support this to have a corresponding sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 298.) Debates of the European Parliament Brunner, colleagues on the protection of Arctic II. Whoever supports this, I ask for a sign of approval. – That is rejected. [[00:26:56]] 18. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna (151 BAZ 1837/11i) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Gerhard Huber (2172 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26702	We're coming to the 18th. Agenda item. Mr Grosz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26728	High house! I naturally find it very difficult to speak to the immunity committee now, after this impressive vigor and intensive list of speakers on the polar bears, although I would have missed out on the fact that perhaps Mr Pendl is also quite grateful to the polar bears. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Something worthwhile to say?]] But that has not been possible for us. High house! In March 2010 the municipal council took place in the municipality of Lienz. The 2010 municipal council election was fought at the Constitutional Court by several tenderers, including Deputies Gerhard Huber. The Constitutional Court reversed the elections. The municipal council elections, the mayor elections, were held once again. Majority has changed, and a Social Democratic mayor now serves in a place that had been at the forefront of the Austrian People's Party for decades. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The Constitutional Court has made massive abuses in the conduct of this municipal election. In March 2010, municipal citizens of Lienz, among others the Lienz municipal councillor Dr. Gerwald Lettner von der SPÖ, Lentner von der SPÖ, addressed to the Member of Parliament Huber with the request that the representative be used as a member of the federal legislation in order to abolish the municipal election in Lienz. [[Abg. May. Worm: Lentner!]] Not least because of this – and I say this here too – because the Member of Parliament was also a candidate for an election list in Lienz and is the head resident regional member of the district. The Federal Anti-Corruption Office has received investigations in the course of this intervention by Mr Huber. It has found that some of the documents that had been handed over to MEP Huber were incorrect – affidavital statements whose content was wrong – and then started investigations, among other things against the Member Huber for the purposes of § 293 of the Criminal Code, the accusation of alleged use of false evidence – not the forgery, but the use of these evidences. In July 2010, the Federal Office for Corruption sent a final report to the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna with the request for further inquiries. In the last 24 months nothing has happened in this area. And heureka!, in 2013 a demand for extradition comes to this House, where one tries to make investigations against the Member of the National Council Gerhard Huber during the election year. We have had a discussion today with the Second President of the National Council on the loss of office of representatives. I was in agreement with Mr Cap that we should not allow the public prosecutor's office to choose in the future for party-political reasons who is in this House of Representatives and the legislation and who is not. The clear separation between judicial and legislative should also exist in the future! I believe that we all agree that we cannot be told who represents the Austrians here. [[Abg. Head: A little bit of a twist!]] That's not a twist, deputies' head! But I'm going to quote it to you. We have now obtained an opinion from university lecturer Dr Oberhofer in the course of this immunity committee and in the course of the so-called "hopper" practice of the Immunity Committee. January 2013 – also sent to the President of the National Council – essentially comes to the conclusion that a number of local citizens of Lienz, as already stated, have responded to Mr Huber's request – including members of the local council – that an official examination be made, and that, from the point of view of Mr Oberhofer, this is, of course, comprised of the political immunity of a Member, especially if one looks at § 293, namely the use of such evidence. We know, for example, that the Member of Parliament, Pilz, very often uses evidence, so-called evidence, even here in Parliament, to formulate ads, which in retrospect turns out to be false, often as correct, often false and nothing but a messy slander. We know that it is also a task of MEPs to articulate the political will-building of citizens – including Lienz – here in Parliament, and, of course, to bring to the attention of parish citizens, of citizens in general reported abuses. It is therefore clear from our point of view that the immunity of Mr Huber in this case is fully justified. Therefore, we do not understand that there is an extradition here. We have discussed this on several occasions in the Committee – the Committee was also interrupted and continued yesterday – because we, and we agree with the liberals, also see a political context in this causa, and we should finally take this Causa as an opportunity to discuss the decision-making practice of the Immunity Committee. The decision-making practice of the Immunities Committee is to rub! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's absolutely right!]] It will be delivered to this committee under a very willing Presidency, a Presidency which will rely more on the consultants and less on their own documents, or which will not be delivered, according to pure discretion, but not according to a uniform judgement procedure, as we would imagine them. [[Abg. Street: After political motivation! That's what I'd call it!]] It should also not have been handed over to Mr Zinggl! Parliamentary Zinggl is a cultural speaker of the Greens, at the time he brought something to the display in the Kunsthallenschandal, an abuse. Many other Members, funnyally always such as the opposition, should not have been extradited. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Amon neither!]] [[Abg. Strache: Amon should not have been delivered!]] – Mr Amon, too, should not have been extradited! In this case, he has even been handed over by his own group, and this has also led to misunderstandings in his own group. [[Abg. Strache: Released to shoot!]] This Causa is the reason to finally reconsider the practice of judgment in this immunity committee, as long as we do not have a new regulation of the right of immunity, that we still have respect for ourselves and for our work as 183 freely elected mandates of the Republic and do not deliver according to purely arbitrary circumstances, according to the motto: Now we are happy, now another one has “g’s sniffed” again! In fact, extradition – in the case of two thirds of these proceedings, nothing comes out, they are also recruited – is understood in the population as a pre-condemnification, because in the mouth of extradition one hears only when a criminal is handed over from one state to another because he has killed someone or committed other crimes somewhere. We also leave each time with an extradition that happens so arbitrarily, pre-conceptions of our own mandates and then wonder that the state of politicians in this country is the worst of all professional groups, according to the journalists. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The reputation of politicians is constantly being discussed, dramatised and sad report is being reported. Then we wonder, if we no longer have a reputation for ourselves, to hand over here to the arbitrator's office, and to the prosecutor's office, of which we know that it is party-politically motivated in some areas, to open the door and gate. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We know, Mr Cap, that project reports in the Ministry of Justice are long enough to make them a party-political bomb at the right time. We know that. The instrument is not the investigation of the prosecutors. The instrument is the project reports, where, in cases which should have been recruited for a long time, the Ministry of Justice is ordered to carry out further surveys that the politician or the politician concerned may continue to be criminalised unpunished and use these project reports as a party-political weapon of a political group held hostage by this Ministry of Justice, ladies and gentlemen! We should consider this very carefully, not only with this Causa, but also with many other Causen, where project reports by the Public Prosecutor's Office are used for politics, where justice is directly involved in making cheap party policies and depriving people of their rights, their securitised rights, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! A lot of Members of you say this also behind your hands and expose this double game that is being played in your group. Some Members have also expressed in the Committee several times a lack of understanding of how we in the Immunities Committee deal with the reputation of mandates in this House. This is a very detailed statement here, even at a later hour, why we will not agree to the withdrawal of the immunity of Mr Huber.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26894	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e26915	Mr President. Mr Grosz has already announced this speech in the immunity committee yesterday. In the meantime, we have seen a few things, a little more serious in the meantime, and then the documents have also been selected. So let's try to finish things in a row. Mr Grosz showed up yesterday in the Immunities Committee with an opinion that no one else in the Immunities Committee has seen. You read it. I do not know to whom it has been sent to Parliament. [[Abg. Grosz: I handed it over!]] In any case, the political groups did not get it. There, an expert - I think you said yesterday, an independent expert - found that there should be no immunity delivery. The expert is Bernd Oberhofer. To the expert Bernd Oberhofer you can find a lot on the Internet and look in. Among other things, one can find the following wordings, for example one of the younger questions Gerhard Hubers made to Minister for Agriculture Nikolaus Berla-kovich. And: The extent of the trend is to suggest that the Tyrolean agrarian lawyer Bernd Oberhofer is Ghostwriter of the BZÖ member. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] He apparently wrote the questions of Mr Huber. Further documents suggest that there has been closer cooperation between Mr Huber and Mr Oberhofer on several joint press conferences. Mr Huber can probably confirm it. He probably wrote the opinion at the press conference that it is impossible to deliver. By the way, Mr. Oberhofer, a university lecturer, is currently running a disciplinary procedure at the Bar, because he called the Constitutional Court’s judgment a “justice-putsch”. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: “Justicebitsch”?- Oh, my God!]] A disciplinary procedure is currently under way for its statements. [[Abg. Strache: Because of his opinion!]] - Point one. Point two: You can also look at the act. What is the situation of the file? – Mr Huber has claimed that the municipal election in Lienz has been distorted. Now I have to defend the EIA a little bit and say, in particular, on this occasion, that I consider the preparations of Mr Epp for the Immunities Committee to be highly comprehensible. I think the templates are absolutely correct. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We have also expressed this by saying that we have been almost always on these requests in recent times, because it is not a arbitrariness, but an comprehensible practice in it. What's in that act? This is totally contrary to what Mr Grosz has tried to present. The stand was that in Lienz the BZÖ did not reach enough votes to come to the municipal council. Mr Huber claimed that many people had declared that they had elected the BZÖ, much more than had been necessary for a mandate, so it must have been miscounted. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We don't need a committee here, we ask Epp!]] Then, of course, it was logical for us to find out, and that was very serious. When you look into the act, you can see that a whole latte of people who supposedly signed that they have given their voice for the BZÖ were then also questioned. I don't call the names, I'm just saying the initial letters of the names of the persons and what they said then. For example: Mr G. said he didn't take part in the election at all, but according to Mr Huber, it didn't matter. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Mr. D. said he wasn't at all at the election. The best was Mr G., who said first that the signature was not from him, and second, that he was Croatian citizen and not entitled to vote at all. [[Cheerfulness with Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ.]] He also signed that he had voted for the BZÖ, and thus it would have been clear that this was not there. Mr. K. said – so much on the subject that Mr. Huber was there almost for the citizens – that the forms had brought to him by Gerhard Huberzu. [[Abg. Huber: Who said that?]] – Mr K., you probably didn’t read the act. I can also take the names closer. So it all coincides. The fact is, then they have been sitting there, have had the complaint about the validity of the election, have found that the respondents all say that there is nothing in the back and front, and Mr. Huber has come up with these collected statements – by the way, by the way, from one employee, especially the BZÖ, who has then said again and again, anyway, who wants what you have chosen, that does nothing – and has submitted it. What are they supposed to do if that's all there is? Tell me this is us now? Did he kind of put us on a mishap, and then let's just leave that up? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We do not test material!]] That is why there is this extradition request, and I believe that Mr Epp has prepared it completely correctly, that the decision is correct, and we will, of course, agree to Mr Huber's extradition.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e27049	Nobody's reported word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Immunities in 2172 of the supplements to decide on the following: In consideration of the request of the Procuratorate of Vienna, GZ 151 BAZ 1837/11i, for approval of the official persecution of the Deputy to the National Council Gerhard Huberwill be in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG found that there is no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Gerhard Huberbe. I would ask those Members who follow this request to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[00:43:18]] 19. Point Report by the Immunities Committee on the request of the Central Public Prosecutor for the prosecution of economic crimes and corruption (15 p. 28/12m) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Martin Strutz(2173 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e27104	We're coming to the 19th. Agenda item. There is no word for this. We therefore come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 2173 of the supplements to decide on the following: In consideration of the request of the Central Prosecutor's Office for the Persecution of Economic Crime and Corruption, GZ 15 St 28/12m, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Martin Strutzwird within the meaning of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG found that there is no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Dr. Martin Strutzbe. If you join this request, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[00:44:20]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00191_d7e27159	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 2212/A to 2235/A were tabled. Questions 14090/J to 14146/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 0.45 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
