ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e4930	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 203. Parliament resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament The Official Protocol of 202. Meeting of 14. In May 2013, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Darabos, Großruck, Schittenhelm, Ing. Hofer, Mag. Honey, windbüchler-saushill and duster. [[09:06:29]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the plenary session on 14 November. In the course of the debate on the urgent question, Member Christoph Hagenim made insulting remarks to individual political groups and to Member Dr. Harald Walser on May 2013. In agreement with President Fritz Neugebauerer, who is at the time, I am hereforward and for the expression “lying politics” according to § 103 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Bravorufe at SPÖ.]] For business treatment, I give Mr Klubobmann Bucher the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e5002	Madam President. High house! In fact, I wanted to save myself a new debate on the ban on speculation, after we had had a three-time debate on it, but the last development on the discussions and results of the national conference was already very shocking. For example, if one learns that the chairman of the national conference, Markus Wallner, says: We will no longer be allowed to dance in the implementation of the ban on speculation on the nose!, and the blame for the National Council, especially the opposition parties, is it really necessary to ask whether there has been no recognition of reality here as far as the national leaders are concerned. That is why we would like to put on the agenda today the ban on speculation and have a debate on it again, because it cannot be that the national leaders are making us a fool here.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e5032	You heard the objections. I do not support the objections. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you should!]] Furthermore, the objections are also available in writing. In the debate under § 50 GOG, I limit the speaking time to 5 minutes and the number of speakers per club to three. The debate and the vote on the objections will take place after the current European hour. I announce that the current hour and the current European hour will be transferred live to ORF 2 to expected 11.45. ORF III will forward this session live in full length. [[09:09:17]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e5066	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Workplaces and social security instead of poverty migration and social tourism” As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mr Klubobmann. I would point out that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e5093	Madam President. Mr Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have requested this present hour, because unfortunately God's figures and, above all, the development of unemployment in Austria have taken quite dramatic proportions and unemployment in Austria has increased dramatically – and Mr. Sozialminister Hundstorfer stands up again and again, here in Parliament, but also in the public, and thinks that it is essentially all palette and all very great, and says that we are not so bad on the road at all. In fact, Minister Hundstorfer repeatedly makes the following comparison: the countries in the European Union with other countries which are much worse. - I'm saying that's just not right. We have the highest unemployment rates since the Second World War in Austria, and we do not only have to take this seriously, this is an absolutely negative development where everything is to be done to counter it, Mr Social Minister! This comparison is a weak consolation for the over 350 000 unemployed in Austria, a large part of which is in AMS re-training programmes, up to 80 000 people. In Austria, especially in the field of youth unemployment, it is so that we unfortunately have more than 40 000 young people in unemployment today. It is a particularly weak comfort for these people to point out to other countries where it is even worse. They always bring this argument, which I say is a bad argument, an increase in unemployment, because they cannot buy anything, they want concrete measures here in Austria so that unemployment is reduced. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say that we have to solve the problems in Austria, Mr Minister, and you are missing the necessary initiatives and the necessary measures to really improve something here. But of course also from both sides. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Instead of taking appropriate measures to relieve the Austrian labour market accordingly, you and your coalition partner unfortunately do exactly the opposite. We should invest in training our youth. And I can only remind you once again – we hear it from all the departments, including the small and medium-sized enterprises – that there is an incredible need, especially in the field of teaching, in the field of vocational training, also in the field of care training, and many entrepreneurs rightly note today that there are too few skilled professionals, because in these areas often are saved. Care area: far too few training places in Austria – and then one laments that one has too few trained nursing staff. There is a need to invest in our youth and also to create these training places and opportunities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead of investing in the training of our youth, you prefer to get cheap workers from abroad. They have allowed the opening of the Eastern European labour market against the votes of the Free Party here in Parliament, the government parties, also with the support of the Greens. We are in favour of getting the citizens from Romania and Bulgaria to have freedom of establishment with us in the near future. And, of course, the labour market is burdened, of course, with wage dumping, and of course this leads to a fall in wages in part, and that is negative. I therefore ask you, Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Hundstorfer: Are not 63,000 unemployed foreigners in Austria enough? And: Why do you continue to insist on the opening of the Austrian labour market for Romanian and Bulgarian workers, where other countries have rightly begun a broad debate and discussion about this? For example, in England: The Prime Minister, Cameron, warns from the British Government that the social system in England, of course, will result in the migration of other people, especially from Eastern European countries, to this social state, and one is considering reorientating the claims not only to unemployment benefit but also to social housing in order to prevent immigration to the UK social system and to counter these developments for good reason. I therefore ask: If we have 63,000 unemployed foreigners in Austria today, is that not enough? Why, of course, do you insist on further opening up to Romania and Bulgaria from your side and from the government, and thus increasing the pressure on Austrian workers, but not only on those already well-integrated people, who are already on our side, are working on the Austrian labour market today and, of course, are threatened by this displacement process of losing their jobs? Sometimes I feel, Mr Social Minister, that we have too many jobs in Austria and not too many unemployed. Otherwise, I can't explain your behavior and your position. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, Mr Social Minister, the opposite is the case: We obviously have too few jobs and too many people who are pushing this labour market. We liberals have always warned of the opening of the labour market for Eastern European countries, and at that time you have stood up and said: The liberals, what they already claim, what they put back into the room! Today we have 128 000 workers from the new Member States of the European Union here in Austria. 128 000 are already, and of course, if you open up towards the countries of Romania and Bulgaria, this number will continue to rise and eventually increase to more than 200 000 once. And that means displacement, which means further increase in the labour market, and it is therefore also a danger for Austrian workers and well-integrated people who have work here to land in unemployment. I therefore say: Please stop it! Stop the move of foreign workers! Above all: Stop the planned opening of the labour market for Romania and Bulgaria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This would give you a very responsible service for Austrian workers and already well integrated workers here in Austria. That would be necessary. With the opening for Romania and Bulgaria, experts assume that at least 20 000 workers will also stream relatively short-term to the Austrian labour market, as your own Chamber of Labour quite critically and warningly notes. Austria is not the social office or labour market service of the Eastern European EU countries! While the number of Austrian unemployed has grown by 18.5 percent over the last four years, dramatically enough, the number of unemployed foreigners has increased by more than 52 percent in Austria. And there is also a sharp rise in the number of foreign workers who are out of work today, among those who are considered long-term unemployed. Their number has almost doubled in time, while the total increase for the Austrians is 33 percent. As I said, bad enough! This makes it clear that what you say time and again is not true, namely that without clear rules your undifferentiated immigration is supposed to bring more to the Austrian social state than it costs. The opposite is the case! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have more costs that you deny and where you are still not ready, as countless requests from the Freedom Party prove to allow for appropriate transparency so that you can see: What will be paid out, what will be paid out, and what are the total costs that will be incurred? This is where transparency and cost-truth ensure that you refuse to do so! You do not seem to want to believe the truth from your side to the public at all. But that's your responsibility! They are trying to suppress the truth in this area. The objective of the Wiener SPÖ has been known to me for several decades and for me it is clear: You hope to recruit and partially import new voters for SPÖ. And I'm telling you, that's a lot of Austrians. But I can assure you: Before you exchange the Austrian population, the Austrian population will exchange this red and black German government, because it is necessary and important to ensure that these faulty developments can finally be stopped. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a result of the European Stability Mechanism, Austria is increasingly becoming negative in international developments. billions of investments in Pleite States, in speculation banks, in the truest sense of the word – and every Austrian is right to ask: Yes, please, what is happening to this red and black federal government when billions are pumped towards the bank speculators, but not to be set up in Austria the necessary initiatives to make economic impulses possible to invest in our businesses in order to break up the credit threshold and allow loans?- Oh, my God! As you fail, these two government parties are in the truest sense of the word disastrously on the road, and there needs to be a change in the country for which we liberals stand clearly and clearly as the only strong opposition force.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e5229	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e5251	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You allow me to stress Mr Klubobmann's statement simply because I want to tell you, above all, what we are doing to ensure the Austrian labour market, what we are doing so that we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, knowing that the people who are unemployed are, of course, not calmed down – that is not a question at all! – but it is already remarkable to live in a country where there has been the lowest unemployment rate in Europe for over 30 months. [[Call the FPÖ:Always too high!]] This comparison cannot be simply pushed aside. It is also remarkable that we have the lowest rate of youth unemployment in all of Europe. Show me a country, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, which invests 640 million euros in labour market policy for the group of 15 to 24 years old! Show me such a country! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Switzerland is better there!]] They should be concerned about why, for example, many young people no longer find the teaching attractive. You should worry why we need disproportionately many AHS classes more and have a problem in vocational schools. That would be a real answer! – What you are doing here is demagogy, which I do not want to address. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What are we doing? . We have created 126,000 jobs in the last four years since this government existed. [[Abg. Strache: But not for Austrians!]] We are one of the very, very few countries in Europe that have a positive job and not a minus. Even if you here believe that these are not jobs for Austrians, the truth is that – and there too you punish the statistics –: They are jobs for Austrians, and they are jobs for people who are legally employed here as workers. [[Abg. Strache: But not in Burgenland!]] That is the very crucial difference! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is not a question, people come from Germany, people come from Hungary, people from other neighbouring countries come to work, but these people have some characteristics that should also give us some thought, namely: These people who come here are on average higher skilled professionals. They pay taxes and social security and finance our entire life as well, because they pay income tax, they pay wage tax, they pay taxes. And in Austria we have a principle, and this principle should also be highlighted. And that's... Many of these benefits are insurance benefits. That means you have to do a performance to get a performance at all. I can only pick up the unemployment benefit if I have the necessary working hours if I have brought together the necessary months of employment in order to get into the system at all. [[Abg. Strache: It's a year!]] That's exactly what's going on: We live in a country where people have to provide a service to get other benefits when they get into an emergency situation! [[Abg. New builder: Minimum security! Where's the performance?]] We have said that 20 000 to 25 000 people per year will come to us because of the opening of the labour market, and they are here now. What we've always said happened. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: And unemployment has risen!]] And these people who have come to us since the opening of the labour market have since paid more than €800 million in taxes and social security contributions. These people finance our entire system as well as any Austrian who lives here, like any Austrian who was born here. And it is among other things also these people – namely, all workers in this country! Thanks to the fact that we have the highest employment rate since the Second Republic, we are able to limit our budget deficit accordingly. Because you say these people from the eastern neighbouring countries are lying on our pocket: Since the opening of the labour market, these people have paid €80 million to the AMS, and this €80 million represents €45 million. That is, these people have paid more than they have found out. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: How do you know?]] These people, as I said, are qualified. More than half of those who have come have Matura, and more than a quarter of them also have a university degree. And we very often have the problem that these people are not used in accordance with their qualifications and that these people are very often not rewarded according to their qualifications. Because you say these people would take jobs away from us: I have commissioned the Wifo to study that says that the unemployment rate is 0.8 per millimetre higher than it would be without opening the labour market. [[Abg. Strache: This is a sense of nonsense.]] I believe that 0.8 per cent of the unemployment rate is very likely to be achieved for the country of Austria. [[Abg. Strache: This is a sense of nonsense.]] And because you're public, you're standing for a minute migration: There was once a government participation of the Freedom Party, as the number of foreigners increased by 44 000. We haven't reached this number for a long time. [[Abg. Strache: It's such a nonsense, that's incredible!]] That was 2003. These are numbers from you and not from me. [[Abg. Neubauer: You're twisting the facts historically!]] I am sorry, but that is the same thing as if one were to say here, one wants to protect the Austrian labour market. You only need to see how many seasonal eggs we have in our country in 2003/2004 and how many we have in recent years since this government existed. Much less! [[Abg. Strache: Seasonal kidneys are there for a limited period of time!]] As a result, I may ask you, even if you would still be involved in the Austrian labour market: Where was your activity to create a wage and social dumping law? – We are the only country in Europe that has made such a law! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where's your activity?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This wage and social dumping law gives the opportunity for all control bodies, whether the financial police or the local health insurance fund, the BUAK, to check whether the classification is correct, whether the collective agreement has been properly applied. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not true!]] There were already tens of thousands of punishments. And we have already blocked foreign companies that are no longer allowed to participate in the Austrian labour market. But we are also invited to explain here, namely: All these companies have one thing in common: a domestic client! We must also put the domestic clients who do not act correctly in front of the curtain and say: You are the one who promotes practice not to pay according to the collective contract! You are the one who supports the net construction companies that then go into bankruptcy immediately! This is our common task to protect the Austrian labour market – and not to say to the people who, for example, come to us through the Entrepreneurship Directive: Get off the trip! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have not only created the wage and social dumping law, which has in the meantime also become an export product, because many of our neighbouring countries have asked: Please, what have you done, how can we apply this to us?, but we have also committed ourselves to a training guarantee for young people. And as I told you earlier, we have taken control of 640 million € for the group of 15 to 24 year olds alone. We also support the educational career, for part-time education. And we've introduced the expert scholarship. In addition, we have improved emergency aid, and we have re-regulated part-time work. And, and, and so. In the first four months of this year alone, we had 262,000 people in training, and these can not be so bad, even if they are always claimed to be the opposite, because 60 percent of those who have completed this training have subsequently found a job from which they can live and which has enabled them to be integrated into the acquisition process again. I could continue this list for a long time, but the time management also applies to me. I would just like to tell you the following: For Bulgaria and Romania, what we have always said will happen, and there will be a small migration. We already have 22 000 Romanian nationals today and around 5 500 Bulgarian nationals legally on the Austrian labour market, and there may still be some in the near future. One thing is perfectly clear: We will continue to ensure that the people who are legal here and who provide services in our system, which are included in our system, receive what is due to them. That will continue to be our foreign exchange! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e5535	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e5560	Good morning! Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A current hour dealing with employment and social security is a good thing for workers. It is important that the Austrian Parliament deals with this because jobs and employment and social security networks are existential foundations for most Austrian workers. What leads me in this context, which I did not expect otherwise, is that there has again been a foreign debate, that there is again a blaze of xenophobia, which is being operated here by the FPÖ, and that hatred is spread here. This has not been deserved by workers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If there are problems living together in a society – and there are – then the question is always to ask: How do I deal with these problems? What is the objective? One way is to see that the problem is solved in such a way as to make cooperation easier and to work better together. The other way is – and unfortunately you use it again and again – to use the problem as a lever for doing so, ultimately to sow hatred, discord and enmity. And in the end, no one problem will be solved. – This has not been deserved by workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is about discussing the issue of employment, employment and social security in a solution-oriented way. We are ready for this discussion. And it would also be good because people would see how different the different policy concepts work, who stands for what, and then it would be easy to say whether they want one thing or choose the other. Overall, the Austrian Federal Government has done a lot in terms of work and social security. I'm not saying everything's okay. We know there's still a lot to do, but it's, as I said, done a lot of things right. But that doesn't cover up with so many killing arguments, such as: They're just fighting anyway! They're not bringing anything else! Then: The facts speak a different language! In Austria, the previous year – against the European trend! – 22,000 additional jobs are created. The unemployment rate according to EUROSTAT is 4.7 percent. And no matter who we talk to and discuss in Europe, the first question is always: How do you do that that you have such low youth unemployment in Austria? [[Abg. It is a question of creating jobs, but unemployment has been produced!]] The answer is diverse because it needs a variety of measures – some of which the Minister has listed – to achieve such good results. But fact is also – and this must be emphasized on this occasion –: We have a social minister, for whom work, youth employment and social security are not empty words, who every day does something for that which fights every day for a good framework for more employment! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion and ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Petzner.]] When we talk about work, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about good work. Good work means: It's not just about jobs, it's not about jobs, it's about work that you can live on. It's about work that doesn't make you sick. It is about work that also gives people a certain degree of fulfillment to provide important services for society. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Yes, there is also poverty in this country. There is also a risk of poverty among us. And everyone/every unemployed person is one/one too much. That's not a question at all! [[Abg. Blow: Workers are also at risk of poverty!]] But the common effort must be to develop further steps in order to make employment more sustainable as a whole and to bring about more employment again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is therefore also about doing everything at European level to highlight growth and employment and finally putting an end to the policy of saving the dead in Europe. Then: The fact that markets are breaking into the southern European countries today is also linked to the fact that people who live there and are busy simply do not have enough resources to buy something. But if Austrian companies that export to these countries can make fewer exports, this also has consequences for our employment. Therefore, it does not matter what measures are being taken at European level, nor does it matter what kind of priorities we are moving forward in the future. A good example is also – last sentence! – the further development of social security through the extension of the care fund by 2016. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] You, Mr. Federal Minister, have made sure not only that care is maintained, but also that future jobs are created. More than 1.3 billion have been invested in care in recent years. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] This is social security, as we mean. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e5665	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e5687	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The most important thing is that people have a job. We must, above all, support those who are looking for work, who also want to work. That, I believe, is the most important thing we should discuss during this current hour. Yes, it is true, we unfortunately have God's rising unemployment rates across Europe. And in Austria, too, unemployment has increased in recent months. But – and this “but” I want to emphasize –: With 4.7 percent for two and a half years, we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. And this is proof that this government is acting properly and that we have successful entrepreneurs in our country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] With about 3.5 million people, we have a high level of employment. This is more than 20 000 employees compared to the previous month. As far as the long-term unemployed are concerned, it is true that: Yes, it is right, Mr Strache, that the number of long-term unemployed also increases. But there is a need to consider – only to see this in relation –: Long-term unemployed is someone who has been reported as unemployed for over a year. And of that we have 6 158 people with date April 2013. This is 2% of the total unemployed people in Austria. And: We have the lowest youth unemployment in Europe. That's, I think, the most important thing at all. Then: We must give young people a perspective, we must give them hope. Unfortunately, there are southern European countries which have an unemployment rate of more than 50 percent among young people. We in Austria, on the other hand, have such a figure of 7.6 percent. Nevertheless, we must work hard and strive to minimize these 7.6 percent. But with that we are at the forefront with Germany. And this low value in youth unemployment is also a success of this federal government. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We started the “Action Future Youth” and a training guarantee until 18. ==References== We guarantee a job, a training or a supported training place especially for the 20 to 24 year olds. These are the most important measures we are taking to combat youth unemployment effectively. The task of policy is to create the framework conditions, ladies and gentlemen. The jobs are created by entrepreneurs. And I would like to pay tribute and recognition to the numerous medium-sized enterprises that are the backbone of our economy and our labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: You have overtaxed the factor work! With the highest tax class, the entrepreneurs are not encouraged!]] Strengthening location, creating jobs – so our foreign exchange must be loud! [[Abg. Strache: Then you have to relieve the factor work!]] Since this government is in office, we have created 126 000 jobs, Mr Strache. [[Abg. Strache: The labour factor is too high a tax!]] Unfortunately, 1.4 million jobs have been lost in the EU. Why is Austria better there? This can already be emphasized, especially in the context of such a debate. – The Austrian companies have been at the forefront of global markets. We are export world champions, ladies and gentlemen: 6 out of 10 € will be earned in export! We also want to further expand these markets, especially in the direction of India and China or in the course of the Danube Strategy. – These are the sources of success that we will need in the future. [[Abg. Strache: Why do you expect the EU Internal Market to be exported? That's absurd!]] Dual vocational training is internationally recognised and is finding more and more imitators in Europe. However, we are still faced with the following task: Ladies and gentlemen, we must make the teaching profession more attractive again! A skilled worker is just as important to us as a student. Teaching with Matura must have a future in our country! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Some of the additional 126 000 jobs mentioned earlier also went to people from abroad, from neighbouring countries – from Germany, Hungary or Spain and Italy, who were particularly affected by the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, in general these people are highly qualified professionals whom we urgently need. You also know about the business visits: Specialist workers are in demand in Austria, and they also pay taxes and social security contributions - €800 million have paid these 126 000 people in recent years! – as well as the Austrians. This has nothing to do with social tourism, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! How should tourism work if we don't have a guest worker? [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] This must also be mentioned in the course of this discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago I said from this debate that we must expect 20 000 to 25 000 additional workers from the Eastern European countries. 20 057 were actually from these countries, who have found work especially in the nursing sector, which has already been addressed today. We will develop labour market policy positively, strengthen the location, create jobs and attract the teaching profession. - That's what the ÖVP stands for.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e5795	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e5817	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! There are political debates in which one has to decide whether one argues politically correct in the sense of the grid set by the good people here in the house, including the corresponding painting, or whether one chooses the path that we liberals take, namely that one expresses the political truth, economic policy and social policy truths. – However, it is necessary to know that both often do not go together, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Political truth is there called hatred by the Hetzers of SPÖ!]] The topic of immigration and migration in connection with social policy is just such a field in which one has to decide. The Minister of Social Affairs has decided, the ÖVP has decided, the SPÖ has decided – all of them for the way to enjoy the fine speech. The FPÖ, on the other hand, stands to mention by name the things that the Austrians burn under the nails, and it is now a truth that immigration brings more costs to our country than benefits. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Until today, you have not been able to put any study on the table – you can, because if you could, this study is already on the table – which this is contradicting our claim. You are not able to do this because the facts do not give exactly this result, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] You can then calmly start with your usual maker. I still have it in my ears, because the domestic debate has been dominated by it for a few days – my God, what was that for a sitter! – that the liberals have allowed themselves to take the term “negative immigration” into their mouths – quite, very terrible! There was a huge excitement among the left-wings in the media and also among the left-wings here in Parliament – I have been counting the ÖVP for a long time, as a new favorite bussi-bussi-group of the Greens. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the role the Greens play! What an artificial excitement! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is the meaning of negative immigration? At all events, it is only for a country which must, in itself, develop migration according to certain requirements, according to certain requirements, to organise a return of immigrants if certain rules, certain requirements and certain expectations are not met. That is quite a matter of course! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is devious to me why you need to discuss something like this at all and why there is a cry for the left in the country and in the media when you speak this truth. This is a matter of course! I would have liked to hear this cry, ladies and gentlemen, when the pensioners were repeatedly refused to compensate for the loss of income, when for the time being they did not valorize their family benefits, or when they made it difficult for them to take care of them – all under the pretext that there is too little money in this country to increase the social security of their own people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have not heard this cry, but if you are talking about negative immigration, everyone will start, including the new Bussi Bussi Group of the Greens, ladies and gentlemen! Who's this about? – It’s about asylum fraud, but it’s also about the homeless, and it’s not a free invention to think that someone who comes to a country to work there, but then has no work in the long run, goes back to where he came from. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has also been done by socialist governments, ladies and gentlemen, and these are democratic systems, which are elected parties – no governments or countries that are at the forefront somewhere, because they would, for example, permanently trample on human rights. I am not talking about the USA, where the link between residence and work is a matter of course. [[Abg. Street: Of course, the Green Card!]] I'm also talking about social tourists, and I'm also talking about poverty migrants. I have to be careful anyway, because the language police are sure to be on the road again when using these vocabulary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say one more thing so that you can see what means the ÖVP is working with: The one who is growing up most, namely your Secretary-General smoke – awfully, “negative immigration”, quite, very terrible, these liberals! – is a member of a party that represents the Minister of the Interior of the Federal Government. However, these letters, for example to the European Commission, say that the European Union urgently needs to do something against the social tourists and the poverty migrants who come into the country and cause costs in the education system, in the homes, in rents and in the health system. Something has to happen, you have to drive in there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Here we go! That's the double-duty thing!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer any need to lead the evidence of hypocrisy! The ÖVP is the first address when it comes to this accusation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e5944	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e5965	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kickl! See, that's exactly the difference between the liberals and the Greens. [[Abg. Kickl: Handzahm! You're handcuff! Coalition plan... raised for day X!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We want the people who live and work here in this country to be able to live together in dignity and respect and to communicate with each other at an eye's level, and we want everyone who lives and works here to participate in the prosperity of this country. They deserved it – regardless of their skin color, regardless of their race and whether they are sometimes displeased! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: With your strange fixations you should go to treatment once!]] A few days ago, the news came from your series: No, we're not making a foreign campaign this time. [[Abg. Strache: Who said that?]] - Who said that? I think it was Mr Haimbuchner. Or isn't that your deputy? Political truth or beauty: What is the truth, Mr Strache? [[Abg. Strache: Do you think we're going to be the theme... where there's a problem? That would suit you!]] What is truth now? Is it true that foreigners are guilty of the crisis, just as you have now tried to make this clear to us in the two speeches you have made? Or is it not – and I have thought that this is also happening to you – that a banking and financial crisis has led to an economic crisis that should not only, but also in Austria, banish the wrong ones, namely those who are not the cause of the crisis. [[Abg. Strache: Why do you then support the causers? Then why do you support the bank speculators?]] [[Abg. Kickl: You have made it possible with your support!]] Why do you fall to the weakest in this situation, in which the wrong ones are supposed to escape this soup, namely the consequences of the crisis, and say: [[Abg. Strache: You support the causers, the bank speculators!]] You are to blame that we are bad, you have to leave this country again, you are not worthy to live in this country, you may have become unemployed, out with you! [[Abg. Kickl: Do you believe that the needy in Austria...?]] [[Abg. You're to blame!]] I admit, Mr Strache, that we have a problem with unemployment. I'm not trying to speak up. And we have not only a problem with rising unemployment, but also with falling income. This is where I come to the proposals for a solution from the liberals. [[Abg. There's no wage dumping!]] Let us look at whether the painting is beautiful or a political truth that needs to be pronounced! What do the liberals demand in their manual? – Yes, there are as many people as possible to know what's in there, Mr. Kickl! [[Abg. Kickl: Great! What a suggestion!]] [[Abg. Strache: Very recommended! Should you study once!]] For example, it says inside that foreigners, guest workers, should be employed here only more temporary – a seasonal model for all those who migrate. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, “Guest ”!]] [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: “guest worker” consists of two words! Guest worker!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is the Green Card, the American model!]] That's your idea. Okay, you don't have to think about it. But this proposal is linked to the fact that both these people and their employers are not supposed to pay unemployment insurance contributions anymore, because they are not allowed to become unemployed here. If they get unemployed, they're gone anyway. [[Abg. Strache: This is the American model, the Green Card!]] These people who work here, of course, are not allowed to take children with you according to your model, so they do not receive any family allowance, and they probably do not pay any contribution to the family compensation fund. These people who work here only temporarily are probably not supposed to pay contributions to pension insurance because they can't retire here. Independent of: Unemployment insurance is abolished. These people are to be employed significantly cheaper than Austrians. [[Abg. Kickl: Where did you read that? Where did you get this?]] – Of course, Mr Kickl! If the additional wage costs are lost – and that is in your concept! – people get cheaper. [[Abg. Where's that? That's what you're sucking out of your nose!]] They want to drive people into wage and social dumping, and this is the most favourable condition for the income of all Austrians – or we say it even more clearly: all the employees here – to fall. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: You can't even read meaningfully!]] They want to strengthen competition in the labour market even more. [[Abg. Strache: You should learn to read meaningfully once!]] It's bad enough anyway! At the expense of foreigners, you want a cheap campaign preparation, an election heat, because you believe that you can bring your little sheep into the dry. – This will not happen, Mr. Strache!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e6280	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e6301	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, first of all, it is so that each party is developing its own party programme, for good reason. You don't need to ask any other party what you can and can't represent. – Only so that this is clear once. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Secondly, As soon as you take the topic of foreigners into your mouth in our country, you are already a right-wing radical and you are already being stamped. [[Abg. Oillinger: Go back to your old party!]] In order not to do this favor to you, I am now saying non-Austrian. Mr Hundstorfer, that is a problem, that must have already been recognized by you, because I can't imagine that at the countless meetings in the individual sections in Vienna you will not be addressed at the time, and whenever, to the non-Austrian problem – and it is a problem! Very many Austrians are actually working on this non-Austrian problem. Therefore, we must take it seriously and not discuss in that quality that everyone who takes the word “foreigner” into the mouth is considered to be a radical right and immediately excluded from any competence to have a solution to the problem that concerns many Austrians. – That only once. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] We have a very healthy access to this problem, which is actually one and which is becoming more and more a problem, especially in Vienna. Make an operational visit to a pharmacy, Mr. Sozialminister! That would be good for you. Look at which people there are redeeming recipes at taxpayer's expense! They can't be that sick at all, how many medications they pick up from the Tara. These drugs will probably be sent home. I am not a human being, but it is immense what is going on then and when in this Republic, ladies and gentlemen, dear. There is a need for a regulation. You have to look at that, you can't just look over it and say that's not a problem. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] That is why we represent the healthy attitude: Yes to immigration – and of the good only the best! Those who pay taxes in our country should, of course, be allowed to stay here. But those non-Austrians who are not able to maintain themselves have lost their right of welcome. One should be allowed to discuss this openly and soberly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Their second suggestion, Mr Social Minister, was that we should be concerned about apprentices, the apprenticeship market and the employment of apprentices. – We have been worried for many years about, for example, the shortage of skilled workers in our country, because this development is really worrying. [[Abg. Kickl: SPÖ – everything ruined!]] But here you should consider, as a legislator, why, for example, a Spengler teacher may only rise to the third leadership. [[Abg. Bullshit: Wrong!]] How should he learn his profession in three years if he is only allowed to rise to the third spout? These are those apprentices who are used to go for the company or for the skilled worker to pick up sausages. These are the training regulations in our country! We should think about this, or also about how we improve the qualification of apprentices for the employer, so that he also knows which apprentices he actually wants and can employ. Mr Social Minister, our proposal was to introduce a mid-term maturity, as it already exists in other countries. ==References== School level is intended to be a mid-term check-up to ensure that everyone who is 9th. The employer is able to make an accurate picture of what the apprentice can actually do. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But the decisive, ladies and gentlemen, is what I hear from the ÖVP again and again, which unfortunately will never be implemented, although there are advertising campaigns about the Austrian Chamber of Commerce for sintering money: The best economic offensive would be to finally reduce taxes, ladies and gentlemen, not to talk about it, but to actually implement it in our country at last! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Abg. Strache: But nothing happens – absolute renunciation!]] This is the best economic offensive there is: Taxation down, up with work and employment and with prosperity! You should remember that once. Instead of double-cashing session fees, should You will finally implement the decisions here in Parliament and reduce taxes.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e6417	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e6438	Madam President. High house! When it comes to work and social security today, the economy must work first. If we want jobs and social security, we must first of all achieve what we want to convert into our social systems. There are, therefore, several aspects to be taken into account. First of all, as far as immigration is concerned: No one can seriously believe that we can shoot ourselves in Austria. There is a need for immigration, and it will be even stronger in the future, because we do not manage to put enough children into the world, and demographic change will therefore force us to have qualified immigration. That is why we need to pursue a reasonable immigration policy. The whole can be summarized with the sentence: Immigration must not primarily benefit the immigrant, but must benefit Austria. This means that if we shape immigration on high-quality standards, so that it is not in the foreground that it should be better for the immigrant to do so, but that the immigrant also contributes something to the common good, then we can shape immigration properly and then this debate can be conducted without emotions, because this is what it is all about. Finally, it is about us leaving first of all those people in the country we need. – In many economic sectors, we have too little labour, for example in the care or in the technical field. There are too few sweaters, for example. Many businesses are looking for workers in such areas and do not find them in the domestic labour market. Here you simply have to make a sound immigration policy, which addresses the needs of Austria very specifically, and not primarily the needs of immigrants. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And then you have to look at the second aspect: We have a huge human capital here in Austria, namely all those who are already disqualified and who are poorly qualified and who are struggling on the labour market. We've heard that's a burden – well, of course – but it's also a chance. It is an opportunity if we are able to qualify those who are already here and many of whom are already Austrian citizens. We want to give those people the opportunity to become valuable to society in terms of employability, in terms of qualifications. That means that this is the principle: Everyone is obliged to contribute to the common good within the framework of their possibilities. That is a principle. And if someone does not have the opportunity to contribute to the common good, then it is the task of the state to offer him this opportunity. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is the task of the State to provide training for those who are poorly qualified, because they have a migration background and because there are problems there that we all know. This is a chance for us! It's human capital that won't be used! – That means we have to hand over here. There is an initiative here, and now I have to mention one of the ÖVP praisefully – I do so much too rarely – namely Sebastian Kurz. He has set up initiatives here – unfortunately without being equipped by the government with the appropriate means. That's where we have to stay. That is, it is important that we move ahead with integration. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It is important that we reach out to those who want and that we create opportunities here for those who do not yet contribute to the common good to do so in the future. That's what it's all about. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And we don't need to be emotional, because it's just a reasonable approach to this delicate issue. And then there is another essential point when it comes to social security and employment, that businesses are finally investing in the country again. We currently have the problem that very, very many businesses in Austria do not see any opportunities to invest and therefore invest abroad. This is where we need to rethink. That is, we must give tax relief to those companies that want to invest in Austria – because we need jobs here, we do not need them abroad. And we also need to stop banks from crediting Austrian companies and not foreign companies, otherwise purchasing power will move away and, above all, the jobs will move away. One point might be to conclude, as far as Mr Katzian is concerned, who has once again spoken about social security and more employment: On the one hand, you demand more employment, and on the other hand have She prevents the trade chain dayli with massive pressure from the union from increasing from 2,800 employees to 3,500 employees. This has been prevented with your blocker trade union because you have prevented a concept from being implemented here that brings more employment. [[Abg. Shopf: Sunday! Sunday work!]] That's a lot of, like, a hundred jobs! And that's the problem. This means that the trade union is blocking and preventing exactly what it is always proposing to promote, namely, more employment and social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e6508	Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e6529	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer! Ladies and gentlemen! Just a comment to my previous speaker: The trade union has not prevented the creation of jobs, but the trade union has prevented an entrepreneur from working on Sunday without a legal basis, without having the licenses for it and without the employees getting the necessary compensation and the corresponding supplements. That prevented the union. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I am very pleased that we have the opportunity today at this current hour to deal with the political truth as the colleague Kickl has formulated it so beautifully. Let me start with this: The political truth, Mr Kickl, is that in the year or the time when you were involved in the government – that was in 2005 – we had the highest unemployment rate in Austria with 5.2 percent. [[Abg. Kickl: That's wrong! I've never been to the government at all!]] This is the political truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Strache: The colleague Kickl has never been to the government at all!]] And the political truth is that you were also betrayed by the European Union at the time because you managed the unemployed and did not take active measures to combat unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] – Yeah, yeah, you're never to blame, so that's always your predecessor. Yeah, yeah, we already know that. [[Abg. Kickl: Can you remember Kreisky? Full employment! Full employment was once the slogan of SPÖ!]] This federal government is very simple, very much off-going of what you have done by making more than €1.3 billion available for active labour market policies. That is crucial, that is good, that is important, because we know very well that every unemployed person and every unemployed person is one too much, and that is why we take very specific measures. [[Abg. That's where we've got too much!]] [[Abg. Strache: You have abolished the flower bonus!]] And we have also succeeded in achieving that, on the one hand, women's employment has also been increased and, on the other hand, we are in the happy situation of taking very active measures for young people, too, in order to tackle youth unemployment accordingly – a measure we are admired for across Europe. I have recently been with Mr Steindl at a seminar with European Members, and it has always been stressed how important and good our training system is, how good and important it is to have a dual training system, and that it is important and necessary to make available financial resources for this training system as well. I am very glad that a very special emphasis is now being placed in the European Union on combating youth unemployment. Among other things, we owe this to our Federal Minister, who, together with the social partners in the European Union, has advertised it, and this has fallen on fertile ground. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me just stick to the political truth. What has the FPÖ done under its government participation? – Among other things, a large number of measures have been put in place, which I do not wish to call workers-friendly. I can remind you that, under your government participation, there has been an extension of the shop opening times, that there has been a easing of the protection of employment for older workers, that there has been a withdrawal of the post search and that there has been a limitation of youth prospects for unemployment benefit – and I could continue this list. [[Abg. Petzner: You have a trauma! I'd do a psychotherapy once!]] This means that you have put in place measures that are really not employment-friendly and workers-friendly. And what is particularly annoying about me in this regard is that where the Federal Minister and the Federal Government are setting up measures to eliminate wage and social dumping, you and the BZÖ do not even find it worth agreeing to this good and important law. [[Abg. Kickl: That's a toothless thing!]] So, what do you want, colleague Kickl? You want people to be exploited, you want seasonal eggs to be employed in Austria under bad conditions. We don't want to. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want employment for people, we want people to have jobs and an income they can get through with. [[Abg. Kickl: How long have you wanted that?]] We want qualified jobs. [[Abg. Kickl: How long have you wanted this, Mrs. Csörgits?]] We train and qualify workers accordingly so that they are fit again in the work programme. [[Abg. Strache: Not even for the same performance women get the same wage – to this day, under your responsibility!]] So briefly put to the point: Both are trying, no comparison! We are making active labour market policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e6709	Next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e6731	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, Mr Kickl – I think we do not need to mention Mr Klubobmann Strache, because this was also a kickl speech – has been made here and has always said the same in the first ten sentences. He has not put forward any solution at all. And the fact that, when he has a recent hour on the subject of employment and social security, he always has to hear from the liberals only these witches, that is simply and completely unacceptable. [[Abg. Straight: negate problems – and then “het”! That's your model!]] If I say that we want something for our employees, for our employees in Austria, I would like to include them all. I do not want to separate ‘good’ and ‘bad’ workers from foreigners and foreigners; I do not know why you always have to do this, Mr Strache. We decided on the red and white red card here in the house. [[Abg. Strache: This is unfortunately a pipe-creper, the red-and-white red card!]] The red and white red card has several requirements and several categories. [[Abg. Strache: A pipe maker is the red-white red card!]] We want a qualified, regulated immigration in Austria. There are very clear rules of play, there are clear criteria. And if someone comes in to us all the time when he's wandering, then he can come at any time and it's for him here like in Schlaraffenland – so it's presented here –: This is simply and completely wrong, Mr Strache. People can be informed – there is the Internet, there are the newspapers, there is television – and your hustle and bustle here will no longer satisfy them. [[Abg. Strache: The only ones who hate are you!]] People know the truth and can learn about it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: The only ones who hate are you! Is that not what you're talking about?]] For example, other key forces who migrate to Austria with the Red and White Red Card and come to the labour market as under 30 years of age must already earn more than €2,000 gross. We all know here that a person who earns €2,000 gross is fully subject to social security, fully payable, that the additional wage costs of the company must be paid to the full extent. I therefore ask myself: What is bad about a service ratio of €2,000 gross wages, where someone fully pays into the social system and, if he gets into a wrong situation sometime, from the social system also gets something again? [[Congratulation of the Abg. Amon.]] [[Abg. Stache: I understand why you only have 7 percent in Simmering!]] Mr. Strache, if you were to pursue labour market policy and worker policy, I wonder: Where does the Liberal Group remain in the Chamber of Workers of Vienna when it comes to fundamental solutions – and not only in the Chamber of Workers of Vienna, but also in the Chamber of Federal Workers? [[Abg. Strache: I understand why you only reached 7 percent in Simmering, Mrs. Tamandl!]] If there are fundamental solutions to be found, in the labour market, for youth unemployment, for example now, as far as Sunday work is concerned, where we find joint solutions where we discuss social and wage dumping laws on the board of directors – how can we do controls? – if we are a partner of the economy on this point, then you are nowhere, then you are logged out. Your colleagues in Vienna do not even come to the board meetings and do not even participate in proposals for solutions that mean improvements for workers. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is scandalous!]] And that is scandalous – thank you, Mrs. Csörgits – that is really scandalous. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That wasn't the woman Csörgits!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: It is still scandalous!]] And because we have been told today that we should finally do something for the economy, we should finally reduce taxes: I do not know, Mr Bucher, that in the last few months we have repeatedly expressed, in every committee, here in plenary, on various occasions, that we want to carry out tax redundancies when our government budget is put back on proper terms. [[Abg. Grosz: Who is the Minister of Finance?]] [[Abg. Straight: For 25 years, this has been praying to the ÖVP and has the highest tax burden to answer!]] We want to make tax reliefs for small and medium-sized enterprises, for workers, but of course also for the economy, for one thing is clear, Mr Bucher: The economy – Mr Bucher, perhaps you can listen to me – needs to be debureaucratised. Only the economy can create jobs. We want to create 400 000 jobs in the next few years to boost the economy. But we do not want to divide, Mr. Strache, according to the motto: These are the one who comes from outside, and the other, they are inside. To be honest, we don't want it. [[Abg. You are promoting the criminal immigrants, the asylum fraud and the long-term unemployed!]] They have painted the devil on the wall from the FPÖ, which opens the labour market with 1. This year is the year's issue. There have been 26 000 – with 25 000 – and everyone in this country – 81 percent, according to a European Union survey, believes that the labour market has been totally well received and we have very good programmes to stimulate and stimulate the labour market. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: And how many Austrians have lost the job and been driven out?]] In conclusion: I don't know, we're yelling here, or the opposition's yelling at a high level here. At an unemployment rate of 4.6 percent – where unemployment is more than twice as high on average for the EU-27 – I must say quite honestly to you: [[Abg. Street: Go to the unemployed in Simmering!]] Do something, bring solutions, and don't just hate foreign workers!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e6994	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e7015	Madam President. Federal Minister! In short, to my previous speaker: The voters are not stupid, Mrs. Tamandl! Whether you can hold the 7 percent in Simmering after this speech is more than questionable. But now on the real issue, the problem of the labour market. Mr Federal Minister, you represent it as if everything were as pointed. You have proved this again today in your speech: It's all wonderful anyway, it's just the liberals so bad. – Mr Federal Minister, your own figures – from your homepage, from your home – show that unemployment among foreigners increases disproportionately. April 2013: The increase in unemployment among foreigners was more than 14 percent, while domestics were 6 percent, less than half. And that's going on, and not only in 2013 – I'm saving you the numbers, you know them – it's been going through for years. You know those numbers, but you negate them. They sit here and tell people the blue from the sky: They do so much for the workplace, for the jobs of Austrians. Mr. Federal Minister, that's not how it works. I'm going to tell you something: You've told us here today that those who have been since the opening of the East have been since the 1. May 2011 came to Austria, I do not know how much money has paid, but only half of it is taken out or recovered. – These are interesting numbers that you always tell us here, because as soon as it comes to a written request and we want to ask it, we will get the answer from you: ‘As a result of the existing data situation, such differentiation cannot be recorded...’, that ‘a breakdown of the social security benefits by Austrian citizenship, EU citizens and third-country nationals cannot be observed’. Then I ask myself, Minister of State, if this is not done: How did you get the numbers you told us again today? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: You suck things out of your nose!]] Whenever you stand here, tell us about any numbers. But if we ask them in writing, then there is no such figures because they are not even raised. I think you have quite an explanation. They always do the same stories. It doesn't work. The super opening of the Eastern states: 28 000 workers have so far come to Austria. We have as many jobs as we have never done, because you have created so many new jobs. It's just like: They're only occupied by the new people. Example: Burgenland. In Burgenland it was that according to the worker chamber chief from Burgenland – I already know, now your argument comes again: well, he was in the election campaign, and there he said that stop; it is already interesting: if a worker chamber chief is in the election campaign, may he say everything? – all newly created jobs have gone to Hungary or to people from Slovakia. [[Abg. Brace: To bravo! The Austrian unemployed really have some of that!]] Not a single Austrian has benefited from these new jobs, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you're going a little further and you want us to open this up to Bulgaria and Romania now. – By the way, you have to say, Minister of State: Germany assumes that about 100 000 Romanians and Bulgarians will go to Germany. You say, according to factor 1: 10 you count 10 000 to 18 000. But at the same time you say that there are already 30 000 Romanians and Bulgarians here, who are already working on the Austrian labour market – so you are getting them now, even before you open the labour market – and “we have done a gentle pre-integration with the list of shortcomings”. – A “soft preintegration”! At the same time, more and more Austrians are unemployed, at the same time the unemployment rate is rising rapidly and rapidly. But you are already bringing Romanians and Bulgarians to Austria. And if you show this, Mr Federal Minister, if you present the mirror in the form of your own figures and your own statements – by the way, today you have said that it is only 24 000, so you should also come to know for yourself how much is definitely there now – if you keep your own figures before you, then it becomes clear that something in the system can't vote and that something is not right either. They want to get the cheap workers from the East permanently. That's funny and funny for you, and then you're gonna make yourself up and say we've made the super wage and social dumping law. The wages and social dumping law is of no use to you at all! And you know that, and that's what all your officials at the Chamber of Workers and at the union, you just keep it under the carpet. That's what you're doing, and you're not doing so bad, because you don't leave it out at all. But, Minister of State, you know very well: For example, a Polish worker, a Slovak worker, a Czech – you can apply to all these states – who is registered in his home country for a day on social security, gets the so-called A1, and with this he can work on the labour market in Austria – and it is totally irrelevant whether this employee is re-registered 24 hours later or not. And you know very well, that's the very big problem, and here we have the social dumping and the wage dumping. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then: These workers do not pay social contributions in Austria and are therefore much cheaper on the labour market. These are the real problems, and that is why they are suppressed. And here you can control whether the collective contract is paid, because it is the additional wage costs that are saved here. Mr. Federal Minister, I ask myself: What are you doing about it? You don't mind. There is no comparison with social security funds from the respective countries. You have no way of looking at it. The only thing you do: They put themselves here and say it's all in the best order here. And that's not it, Minister of State. That's absolutely not it. You are doing social dumping, wage dumping, and you know it!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e7111	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e7133	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome the young guests at the Gallery in the High House, the future of our country. I am glad that you are there and that you attend and listen to the debate! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, also in front of the screens at home! I would ask you to join me in a thought experiment. [[Call the BZÖ:Well, please don't!]] [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] Let us move together into the world in which blue visions have become reality! Let's just try it! First of all, in this world, I see the foreign spokesperson of the FPÖ, who sits at home and no longer trusts in abroad, for, how did his vice-party chief Hofer say before yesterday: “Every vacationer () can bring in a disease”! – the foreign spokesperson of the FPÖ, who has to drive continuously in this evil and with disease germs and pathogens. Dear Austrians, forgotten Please visit your beloved Greece holiday, your beach holiday in Egypt, Turkey or elsewhere! There are only diseases and germs waiting for us. Of course, travel abroad must be reduced to a minimum in this beautiful blue world. Second point: In this interesting FPÖ election manual – I quote – the FPÖ rejects any immigration – all immigration! What does that mean consistently? – of course a marriage ban with foreigners. Where do we come from, if every Austrian, every Austrian, could marry the person he or she simply wants to marry? Unfortunately, if this is a foreigner, it is not possible because any immigration is undesirable from the FPÖ. Third point: Interestingly, the FPÖ speaks of “minus migration”. It is not enough, therefore, that no foreigners are allowed to come to the country anymore, but those who eventually came from abroad are supposed to sneak themselves again, as you say so beautifully in Vienna. [[Abg. Strache: The punishers in all cases!]] I would like to ask you, of course, Mr Strache, who are you thinking who should leave the country again? [[Abg. Street: The criminals and criminals in all cases that protect you! And the asylum scams that protect you! They protect you from them!]] For example, the parents of David Alaba, the mother is well known to be the father of native Nigerian Philipina? Should David Alaba's parents emigrate? Would you rather that Attila Dogudan's father emigrate? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. There you are patron saint!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Or would it be better if the Slovak nurse sluggished again, your mother or your father's? [[Abg. Strache: Criminals and asylum scams that protect you!]] Only then do you have to answer the unpleasant question, of course, if the Slovak nurse, who is caring for many of us family members here, leaves the country again – don't get upset, Mr. Strache, you've already been running red, not that you're getting a heart box too! [[Abg. Strache: drug dealers and burglars who protect you!]] We can't all want to. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So if the Slovak nurse, who is doing very useful, very useful work here, if she has to go back, you have to answer just one question.How do you want to do your colleague's job, where you have to take care of your mother or your father yourself, because the Slovak nurse is a fuck, that must not be there anymore. [[Abg. We should go to the drug traffickers and criminals, not the nurses!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Yeah, don't turn it all!]] One last point: The FPÖ speaks of ‘mass immigration’ and wants to limit it. Let's just look at the numbers: Currently we have a net migration of about 35 000 people every year, and in 2005 – I can remember darkly, there was an ÖVP FPÖ government in power – there has been a net immigration of 44 000. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] A year ago, in 2004, there was a net migration of around 51,000 people. [[Call the FPÖ: That's stupid!]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, and you know that just as we all do: You're in front of the ruins of your policy. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] They could not change anything as a government party or as an opposition party to the fact that Austria is a country of diversity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Austria will continue to be a country of diversity. [[Abg. We do not support criminal diversity as you do!]] And all the problems that exist in living together – and wherever people live together, there are also problems – are to solve them together! I would like to conclude with the following sentence: We may not all have the same origin in Austria, but we have a common future ahead of us. And we can only tackle these together and solve problems together. Together we can do this! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e7359	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e7380	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and on the screens! Ladies and gentlemen! If someone has listened to my previous speaker here, he must say that she can be very happy that she lives here in Austria, not in her home country, in her courage, in Turkey – because the situation you have in Turkey we do not want in Austria! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brosz and Mr Csörgits.]] The economic problems in Europe that hit the Austrian labour market. And if I have now heard the speeches by Members of the Coalition Party and also by the Minister of Social Affairs, who is trying to put the things he is trying to do into a positive light, I must say: The unemployment rate is quite different. I believe that SPÖ and Mrs Csörgits – I am sorry to say this – are: You have a trauma, you have a trauma of the black and blue federal government from 2000 to 2006! [[Abg. Csörgits: Yes, exactly!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Csörgits and Mr Silhavy.]] If you go here and say the highest unemployment was in 2005 at 5.4 percent, then you don't know how high the unemployment rate is today. Today we are 7.3 percent, and the absolute numbers are 273 121, do you understand? And 80,000 people are in training; and the trend is rising, Mrs. Colleague, it is rising. Do something! Your party is in the government, do something at last, but dream You're not from wrong numbers! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Csörgits and Mr Brosz.]] Mr Katzian comes out here and says that we have a Social Minister who we are so proud of. He does something against high unemployment every day! – But unemployment is still rising. Yes, Minister of State, I am looking at the labour market with concern. It's like: If the trend is rising, you should react! I know that this is not going from today to tomorrow, but look at the fact that 50 000 people are in addition looking for work this year – most of them come from the Federal Republic of Germany, which comes from outside, there is nothing to say about it – but it will be difficult to lock up the companies in Austria! These are for example the laundry manufacturers Triumph or Niedermeyer. At Niedermeyer, 280 jobs are registered to be reduced, according to the early warning system of the AMS, at Triumph 350, at Sport Eybl & Sports Experts also 250, at Bank Austria 800 to 2016; further at Swarovski 150, at BAWAG-PSK 500 until the end of the year. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Bank Austria!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] [[Abg. New builder: AT&S!]] There are still 100 people in Pago and 150 in the AUA Tirol, who are also registered with the AMS. In addition, the former socialist, S & D Androsch with AT&S in Klagenfurt, also locks his work and goes to China. Yes, a former socialist finance minister is still doing the bulging on the i – and nothing is done about it! [[Complaints and intermediate calls at the BZÖ.]] Now we have a head of state emperor in Carinthia, who does not do anything. That's where he's dealing with the past. It must be, I'm right about him, but he has to do something for the future, because we have the highest growth in unemployment in Carinthia! Nothing happens in this area. [[Abg. May. Muttonen: Why is the situation so bad in Carinthia? FPÖ, FPK!]] And now I come to immigration: There are qualified immigrants, there are low-qualified immigrants. You know what we need? – We need key workers, we need them with us, and it is not the question whether they are high or low. Key workers are exactly what we need. By the way, we have this in popular desire – do you remember that in the nineties it was the Haider FPÖ? – “Austria first” already demanded. Also the red-white red card has been demanded, thank you for using it now. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brosz and Mr Silhavy.]] At that time, it was “humane ” to you. The non-profit activity of the long-term unemployed communities has also been implemented in this popular desire – thank you. It used to be “manual despicable. ” Yeah, that's how it looks. Today, we are ready for the asylum seekers at mayor Stauber in St. Andrea to also make non-profit activities. That was forbidden in the past. I'm even for doing it. Only in the past was the economic side a bit opposed, because the economy has done certain activities for communities. Of course, there were private companies there. But, of course, if it is possible to do other things in non-profit activities, I am right. I don't care if it's private or public, it just has to be managed economically. That's the succus, that must be it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And the SPÖ prints giant folders: “The Party of Work.” Yes, then finally do a job! [[The speaker keeps the above-mentioned folder up-to-date.]] You're just talking about it. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at BZÖ.]] “Mile stones of social justice”, “lowest unemployment rate” – we have record unemployment. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Do something about it at last! “Jobs through investment”, “Youth employment” – also high unemployment, although still relatively low in Europe, but far too high for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e7553	Mr Hundstorfer, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e7574	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! - Yes, yes, yes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: that was a true social minister!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, look, I don't go in on calls from you at all, because it's completely pointless: The audience doesn't hear it, the gallery doesn't quite understand it. As a result, we leave that to be. The fact is that, Mr Dolinschek, I would very much like to see Turkey's economic growth in Austria – yes, I would like to. So that we can take a little bit. [[Abg. Grosz: Turkey in the European Union, as we know! You can drive to Turkey!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] I would very much like [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Would you also like the women's rights of Turkey?]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I would have liked to make a few things clear. Point 1: It is perfectly clear that in April, foreign unemployment increases disproportionately more than anyone else. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Not only in April!]] It's perfectly clear. Why is it perfectly clear? Once again, the best winter season is coming to an end, and as a result, after having over-proportionally many foreign employees in tourism, we simply have a stronger increase. [[Call BZÖ: Go! I'm sure there's black and blue to blame!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, yes, the weather!]] This is a milkmaid bill, whether or not You want it or not. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Leave the milk girls alone!]] It is also a milkmaid bill when you say that the sentencing directive is not controlled. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Look, here's the crucial difference: When you were in the government, there was the same posting policy. Your answer was silence. Our answer was not silent, our answer was to create a wage and social dumping law where we can control at all. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Praßl.]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] And then you explain to the district authorities that they do nothing at all if they have already declared punishments of 9 million at the same time. That's nothing? [[Interlocutor Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein and Kickl.]] We can discuss whether it should be more, but 9 million of outspoken penalties, among other things because of non-compliance with the Entrepreneurship Directive, you should also take note of that, I believe. I come to the conclusion: I am very pleased that Mr Strache thinks that they should come in on time and then go back. I am going to discuss this with the Serbian community, which he is trying very hard to do. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do this!]] And then I'll invite you to something: You have in your ranks a few very prominent delegates who are lawyers. And if, for example, they were to look after the Austrian labour market more intensively, they would ensure that we finally bring together a collective agreement with the Bar Association for the people working there.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e7759	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e7780	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! In principle, it is to be said: Mr Minister, I found this a bit funny, what you said before, namely that we as an opposition are almost to blame or should give us thoughts about why the apprentices quit their teaching or why we have so many school dropouts – that is, 10,000 young people each year who do not have a school degree. For years, Minister, we have been saying that we have to do something in the teaching business. That means we have to expand this, we also have to do something about the care teaching. The SPÖ is always the first to say: Okay, you can't imagine that to the young people! So when I look up at the gallery there, I see young people there, whom I trust very much. I see young people up there who are not only interested in politics but probably wonder what we are palaving there, but who are also very motivated. I trust young people in Austria a lot, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And when I look at the SPÖ policy in recent years, I have to say: We have always pointed out that we have a lack of care professions, but – I can turn the microphone back if it is too loud for you, dear Mrs Colleague, but we are here in Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] That means “parlars”, speaking, and I’ll do it here. That's where the SPÖ can't ban my mouth. For years, we have been fighting to do something in the teaching profession, for example, a teaching for the care profession. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: The BZÖ! That's my call! No own ideas!]] – Of course also the BZÖ, Ursula Haubner, no topic at all, but at the time I was still there. And I've always been committed to doing something with you, too, that we have to do something there; and nothing has happened. It has always been said that it is impossible to imagine this to young people. Now there is a campaign where you can see how many young people care for parents and mothers. What are you doing about it? - Nothing, you don't mind. They're yelling down here and doing nothing for young people in this country. But I trust a lot, Mr Minister, and above all you, that in the long term something is done, that we are not always standing out here before the election, saying: Well, the young people, unemployment, everything is crazy, we have too few skilled workers! – And what do we do at the end of the day? - Nothing! At the end of the day we do nothing, and above all the Federal Government does nothing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] But, Minister, because you are also here as Minister for Consumer Protection and the issue is also poverty. I can only say one thing: In March, something was implemented, namely that you can pick up bank cards without a PIN. Each of you must have wondered what these two castles have to mean in the food markets. This has nothing else to mean that we can cancel without PIN code, namely 25 €, ten times a day, that is 250 €. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: What are you talking about now?- Oh, my God!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what did you do? Did you inform the population from above? Have you informed the people about what this means? That you can cancel 250 € a day, without PIN code, and that the banks have already sent out these new cards permanently? [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: apprenticeship training?- Oh, my God!]] I can tell you something: This is true of the people who cannot afford it! Because what happens? – There are already code castles where you can pass and pick up the 25 €. That is, there's a wild growth like that. I also expect from the Federal Government and, above all, from the SPÖ – as I do not expect anything more soon – that the population will be informed of what is actually happening there. It was neither warned nor informed. Nothing was done at all. This was simply implemented in March, silent, soundless. Each of you got a new bank card. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, as a tax advisor, this is good for you as a tax advisor that you have done nothing! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You were once State Secretary yourself; and the thing looks like you don't do anything for young people, that you don't do anything for apprentices, that you just cover everything up. This is also the case with consumer protection, Mr Matznetter. I'd wish you'd do something here! One important point to conclude, Minister: We need a variety of apprentices. We also need people who do great things on the labour market, and this also has something to do with payment. Just like the seasonals, where you only think about the fact that there are huge problems in Tyrol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e7889	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:38:58]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e7914	We're now coming to the current one. European hours on the subject: “The challenges at Europe and Austria’s economic location” The Federal Minister is present. First of all, Mr Haubner. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e7944	God, Madam President! Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Austria and Europe are currently setting a goal: strengthening the economy, creating work, income and social security. However, the challenges that must be overcome at this time to achieve this goal are very big. A view of Austria shows us: The Austrian entrepreneurs and their employees benefit from the Common Europe, as it guarantees them prosperity, peace and security. Every day, we use the benefits of the European Union in the economic use of the EU internal market, in cross-border opportunities and, of course, in the EU co-financing of Austrian infrastructure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury]] We therefore need – and I believe we agree – no political polemics, because the figures and facts speak for the European Union. The Austrian Economic Research Institute and also the IHS, the Institute for Higher Studies, have shown us with two studies – and the economic experts confirm that – Europe is securing our economic location and, of course, our future. Ladies and gentlemen! Through Europe, through our EU accession, Austria has certainly become international. Starry structures have been broken down, and the EU has been a competitive and innovative engine since then. The country has opened up, and we can say: No other state has benefited and achieved more than Austria through the opening of the East, its accession to the EU and the euro. It has already been tailor-made in the previous discussion: We are export world champions; we are a country that lives from export. Austria earns 6 out of 10 euros in exports, and 70 percent of them – I believe that is absolutely crucial – go to the EU area. So 4 out of 10 euros our businesses are producing today in the EU. The fact is that, through our favourable geographical situation, we serve as a hub between Central and Eastern Europe, and we can only use it as a member of the EU Internal Market. If we're outside, these benefits are gone too. It must also be clear to those who are always talking about leaving the European Union. On the topic of export, one can certainly refer to the successful period between 2000 and 2007. It was the German Chancellor Schüssel who has promoted this internationalization of the Austrian economy, from which we still benefit massively today. If we look at this more precisely now, the export figures speak a very clear language: Last year the highest level, an export record in Austria with €121.8 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister, together with the Chamber of Commerce and the Go-international initiative, is a very crucial catalyst, and thank you very much for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the figures show how Austria and the Austrian economy have benefited from the EU. Thanks to the EU, we have a growth bonus, because we can say that the normal growth we generate annually has caused this EU accession about 1 percent of additional economic growth per year from 1995. There are, of course, also positive effects on the labour market: Since joining the EU, we have created 375 000 new jobs, which are 17 000 new jobs per year. Here too a warning, because that would have fatal consequences: If we left, we would put thousands of jobs at risk. Whoever wants to do so is not responsible in this sense. The Austrian regions also benefit – and the regions are very important for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and for our small-scale agriculture, because it is only common. The Austrian regions receive funding from the EU, and together we have set up €4.5 billion for projects in the last six years. This money goes into research and development and the promotion of entrepreneurship as well as the creation of work, which is very central. Especially in research, it is very important that we participate in international research projects, ladies and gentlemen. With the new research framework programme, which was set up in 2007, we have been able to receive about half a billion euros for the Austrian programmes from Brussels. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us look at this very concretely – we live by concrete figures –: 1 800 Austrian participations in 1 300 projects. I think this is an impressive result, and this is very important for our Austrian innovative companies. If we look at the current priorities and challenges in the European Union, it is a fact that we are simply going through difficult economic times across Europe. However, the fact is that 7 per cent of the world's population live in the EU and that 7 per cent achieve an economic performance of 25 per cent, but that they receive 50 per cent of the world's social benefits, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, it is particularly important for our Austrian companies to ensure that savings and investments are consistent. In other words, on the one hand, administrative savings are carried out and on the other hand, expenditure on future research, education and infrastructure is increased. The field of innovation is of great importance for this offensive. We benefit from this area, because we cannot live by domestic demand alone. Our prosperity – I have already done this – comes from the export. It is also very important that we keep the value chain in Europe and also in Austria, because when we look at China, Russia or America, what is happening there, we have to say quite clearly: We can't decouple ourselves in a cost-effective way, that's just not possible! We need a framework for the European economy to remain competitive. That is the great challenge, and we must do everything for it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Subvention nuclear power, or what do you mean?]] For we know, ladies and gentlemen, if tax and tax benefits, energy and environmental costs are too high, then the farms can easily migrate, and this is a major problem. That is why we need impulses and no new burdens, and we will take the right steps. [[Abg. May. Kogler: subsidize nuclear power?]] In this respect, too, the EU has provided the right impetus with the Horizon 2020 research funding instrument, where 80 billion will be made available in the coming years, to combat the crisis and unemployment and to ensure Europe's competitiveness. Work for the people is at the top of the list. This is the most important thing, and this is only with a strong economy, because only entrepreneurs create jobs – not politics! There's no poster, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Bucher: That's what the right person says! That was good!]] Small and medium-sized enterprises are the employment engine; 99 percent of Austrian companies have this size. That is why it is also so important that Austria and our Minister for Economic Affairs in the EU have enforced their support for these small and medium-sized enterprises and that there will be a strengthening of SMEs in Europe. The competitiveness of these SMEs is very, very important. Again: The economy is creating jobs, and that is why we in Austria are on the right track with our policies – and especially if you look at this in an international comparison, on a better path, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One of my main points is that Europe is learning from one another. I think there is a very good current example. With a recent decision, a European government plans to privatise state-owned companies to finance their investment programme. – The decision in the near future: first, privatisation revenues for investment in the future; second, compliance with the consolidation path; second, lower taxation of profits after sale; and targeted promotion of investment in SMEs. Ladies and gentlemen, where does this take place? – In France, under a socialist government! This means that the French Socialists admit their tax increase errors from last year. After the election, the time of promises is over, and so it will be in Austria, but we are just ahead of the election, ladies and gentlemen. That's why I warn everyone about new property and property taxes. These are poisons for the site, thus for competitiveness and the final impact on jobs, honourable Members and colleagues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I note the following: Austria is a beautiful and successful country in a common Europe. Austria has committed and diligent workers. Austria has innovative and responsible entrepreneurs. Austria is an attractive economic and work location. We all want this to remain so, that is why it is our responsibility not only to maintain this advantage, but also to further develop Austria as the most attractive economic location in Europe – for secure jobs, for successful companies, but especially for our subsequent generations!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8059	Mr Mitterlehner spoke in favour of an introductory opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8080	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker just mentioned that Austria has benefited from Europe. Of course, it is not only these positive effects to be presented, but above all the question of how we can develop in the common Europe. And above all, we have to deal with the question of how Europe's competitiveness is being ordered. Can Austria do something here in order to strengthen competitiveness, and, above all, can Austria do something to go on an independent path in this Europe and take advantage of its own? If you have been looking at the last years, you have all been able to observe that since the economic crisis in 2009, it is not really the question whether we are now in the fourth year of economic recovery, but that we have to say that we are in the fifth year of the economic crisis. The frequency between recovery and new financial crisis is getting shorter and shorter. That is, the problems have not really been solved. But above all there is an impact, and this presents us with serious difficulties, which is the effect that Europe has a weak growth – a weak growth, which is expressed in such a way that in the euro area, according to the European Commission’s estimates, we have a 0.4 percentage point decline in the economy. Austria is better placed: Austria will probably have 0.7 percentage points of growth. That's relatively better, but it's not good enough yet. This, of course, raises a second question: What does it mean if Europe does not grow, what else happens in the world? In the rest of the world, we – unfortunately, you have to say, or, positively, because on the other hand, as an opportunity for us – have more growth. World economic growth will be 3.3 percent in 2013; in China alone, we will have 7.5 percent growth. What does that mean in the consequence? – In the consequence, this means that the forces have shifted, that Europe is in danger of losing the link economically and that weighting is divided differently – and also because of a second consequence that we have experienced from the debt crisis, namely that Europe has increased indebtedness. Indebtedness in Europe will be 100 percent of gross national product in 2020; Maastricht criterion would be 60 percent – you know it. On the other hand, the countries in the so-called Emerging Markets, such as Brazil, India, China, have a 35 percent debt. But what effect does that have? – The ones that these countries can handle more money for infrastructure, for research, even for education, because they have fewer debts, while on the other hand we have to repay debt and on the other hand have no money for new economic programmes. This is also a further problem, and this is the rising unemployment, the social issue that is simply playing a part in Europe. You can remember how I recently presented Austria – especially youth unemployment – not with a number, but with a comparison. And that's... Every second youth at Messe Wien has had to stand up at an event at the invitation of the presenter. At the moment, it was very quiet in the room, and those who remained sitting correspond to, for example, the unemployment rate of young people in Spain or Portugal. And now we have to say what the European Union is doing – I have just seen the last hour. It sounds great: You take €6 billion into your hand! – €6 billion to combat youth unemployment sounds a lot, but do you know what time it is? – For 2014 to 2020. Now look at what Austria is doing for youth and youth employment: In the year € 350 million! And I think that's right and positive. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If you multiply this once in relation to all of Europe by 30, you have about 10 billion, which would have to be the share to combat youth unemployment in Europe per year. And if you multiply this by six – because it's six years old – you would have 60 billion €. So what does that mean in the final effect towards the EU, of which we ourselves are part? – No question, we have to make even more effort to really combat youth unemployment, otherwise we have social tensions to an unprecedented extent or else we have a “generation of jobless”. What do you say to those in Spain who have no options? [[Abg. Bucher: That means increasing taxes! How do you want to finance that?]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the trade union, one must implement savings programmes throughout Europe, one must reduce social benefits in order to increase competitiveness. They have the idea of increasing social benefits at the Trade Union Congress. Don't you notice that this reduces your competitiveness? You – that to the socialist colleagues – can pass it on to your trade union colleagues. What did the EU do right, what did it do wrong? – Only three comments and three positive consequences: I think the EU's huge error was to put everything on CO2 reduction. Why? – Because you believed that with the 20 percent target, all the other countries in the world would also be lagging behind, and we can deliver our technology to China, to India, to the United States in order to be competitively successful there. - Please don't! The others didn't do it. That is why we have a problem, and the problem is our industry: She's going where – see? – To America, to the United States, to Asia. Why does industry do that? – Because energy costs now amount to a quarter. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Go, please! Go, stop it!]] And now, so that no error arises, Mr. Kogler: I am not for shale gas and otherwise something without conditions, but with social acceptance. But that we have to face up to the problem of energy costs – whatever the EU is doing right now – is simply necessary because otherwise we will lose competitiveness. Our main problem is no longer wages, our main problem is high energy costs. Therefore consistent and correct: The EU must address energy problems! But we also have a second problem: Wherever we come with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany with delegations, others have already been there. What did they do? – They have entered into free trade agreements. Therefore, the EU must do one thing: complete it faster! I see a positive development in the fact that the EU will now, for example, make a free trade agreement with America. This alone brings a growth of 2% in Europe. In this way, we place three quarters of all business cases under better conditions, each other. It's a shame that we haven't done this before. Second consequence – because we have just talked about how we have benefited from Europe: Take a look at the steel area! In the steel sector: Steel production has increased by 80 percent worldwide in the last ten years. What do you think is the current share of the steel industry in Europe? – This was 23 percent of total production in 2000 and is currently 11.2 percent. So if we don't recognize the signs of time and initiate a reindustrialization, we can't help! Therefore, the positive consequence is: The EU, also under the influence of us – the voest general director was also involved in this round table – has set a 20 percent industry target, because it does not help us if we have 11 percent of CO2 emissions and 5 percent of industry. This is not the consequence that we should have, therefore the link between the objectives: on the one hand, the CO2 target and on the other hand, the industrial target. I think that is very positive. You can stand as cars as you like, but the CARS 2020 initiative is just an initiative that helps us – which helps us to exist because in more than half of Austria has automotive supplier industry. Now we do not need to say that all this is environmentally hostile, because in the final effect, e-mobility, gas cars can help us technologically, so this is another important consequence. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] Now on the question: What are we doing in Austria? If the EU has recognized the signs of time, can we do something to reindustrialize it? - Yes! I also think we are very successful with diversification. What have we been doing when exporting in recent times? – We had 83 percent towards the EU. If growth moves, we have to go somewhere else. And there was already a problem that 22 percent of our exports went to the ten weakest countries and 8 percent of our exports went to the ten strongest growth. That is why it is great to deliver to Italy, our second most important trading partner, but we need rather the others who have a greater growth. Therefore, our efforts are going in this direction and also towards Green Technology. It is clear that we also have something to do with qualifications in terms of jobs. And I would like to conclude with a crucial point. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to discuss how we develop our social benefits. We don't need a discussion about how we're better redistributing. We need a development where young people confess to entrepreneurship. [[Abg. Bucher: Yes!]] And here I say to you that youth innovative, the children's day of the Chamber of Commerce, the economic week for children in the industrial association is exactly the right starting point, so that there is a peace of business, because you seem to forget the following – you don't need to place this or that –: If we don't have businesses, we don't have jobs either! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's right!]] Therefore, last but not least in the summary: Austria benefits if we have many innovation-friendly, research-oriented companies. We have never succeeded in wage dumping. We have benefited when we go abroad, and we want to do so in the future. An asset that I would like to mention at the end is the compatibility of family and profession that has increased enormously in us. If we continue to expand this, we will simply be competitive with other issues, such as targeted integration, which we can solve well, in the future, but not with the wrong focus, this will not help us, but only with competitiveness towards a competitive Austrian and above all dynamic European economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8182	I would draw attention to the fact that, as in the previous hour, the speakers now have a speaking time of 5 minutes. Mr Matznetter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8206	Madam President. Federal Minister! Another supplement for the last time. Mr Dolinschek was concerned about the workplace. I'm also worried sometimes when the BZÖ is no longer there. I can recommend that there are entrepreneurs who employ people. Mr Markowitz was also appointed by Mr Stronach. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Not necessary!]] Perhaps you should apply there as well. Then you also have a good job opportunity after the 29. September. – That only as a supplement to this part. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! They have rightly listed the flaws that Europe has. The social drama of youth unemployment must not be underestimated only in Spain. They mentioned that every second youth is unemployed there. In the south of Spain it is every fourth of five. We have a situation there whose drama cannot be underestimated. The key question is: How could Europe get into such a situation? If we consider this question, we must also deal with the economic policy that has prevailed on this continent over the last 20 years. The promises of neoliberalism were, with complete deregulation, full release of capital flows and as strong a competition between states as possible, we will have an optimal growth and become the most growing and most innovative economic region in the world. But reality has not matched the theory. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It would be most useful now to finally forget the theory and deal with reality. You can continue like that. A crucial point is the following: You, Mr Federal Minister, have quite rightly said that it would be time for economic programmes in Europe. We can't do it, however, because the public hands don't have money anymore. And it is not the Maastricht criteria that have not been met. Spain is the best example. Spain was the model boy of the European Union four or five years ago: 25 percent public debt, budget surplus. That wasn't the reason. The reason is quite different. All of Europe, all public funds are currently in a state that they are in a debt crisis from which we do not come out. [[Abg. Amon: Completely right!]] Why not? It has already been discussed how high the tax and tax rate is. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amon.]] No, no, Mr Amon, completely wrong. They're paying for the wrong people. Small businesses and employees pay high contributions, high taxes, but they have an ever smaller share of what is added value. Then there is a large part of the added value, which doesn't pay at all. [[Abg. Bucher: Banks and corporations!]] Does anyone have an iPhone? – The CEO of this company was invited to the U.S. Senate yesterday. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: Nobel Prize!]] Mr Cook defended himself there and said that we are paying 30 percent of taxes in the USA anyway. As regards the crucial point, he had no answer at all. How can it be that such a group – and I recommend here the article from the “Press”, which is not a Communist Fighting Body, dated 22. May – for € 28.7 billion profit abroad, speak outside the US, has only paid € 556 million in taxes in 2012? [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Ireland operates a tax haven industry which is the endpoint of the so-called tax competition. It is evil to occupy it so positively, because that actually means nothing but inability to act in the governments if the big corporations pay nothing more. If we do not solve the financing problem – and the European Council, the Heads of State and Government will deal with it today – we will not get out of the financing problems. With the taxes of coffee seeds in the small coffee house around the corner we will not be able to finance the budget if the American big chain pays zero cent. And Austria is part of the tax havens with Ireland. Ladies and gentlemen! We need to fix that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There we will have to collect taxes and see that we close gaps. We will not be able to refuse to talk about group taxation privilege. We'll have to talk about holding privileges. And we will also have to talk about the need to pay contributions where a high capital accumulation is, because one thing is clear, which has already been saved, Mr Hörl, at the expense of millions of unemployed people in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] Therefore, we will not continue to save on the back of them, but we will have to ask the high gentlemen, whether they are called Cook or otherwise, to check out. I ask colleagues from the government to finally give up the resistance. For the location, the nuts bring. There is the energy question and everything else where the Federal Minister is right. But we need adequate taxation for the future of the continent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8329	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8350	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was not all wrong what Mr Matznetter said, because of course it is so that the question of competition with other countries also concerns the question of a country's tax policy, the issue of distribution issues, and the question of wage policy. All these are, of course, factors that ultimately decide whether an economic location is successful or not. But if, as it were, you completely ignore the question of the budget, the budgetary policy and the regulation of your own budget, Mr Matznetter, then you are absolutely wrong. It can't be. [[Abg. Riepl: He didn't say that!]] You know very well that at the beginning of the budgetary crisis of the European States, of course, someone like a German Chancellor Schröder in the Federal Republic of Germany, who first said: What do the Maastricht criteria mean to me? Let's finance well on pump, let's make a deficit-spending! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Of course, this has been a problem, not at the end for the Federal Republic of Germany, because by means of a sensible policy that CSU and CDU operated with the FDP in the Federal Republic of Germany, they have reversed in time, but the problem has been that many countries have followed this example, which then have not opposed. This is the problem, Mr Matznetter! And these excessive debts, which have been made, naturally also ruin the economic situation of many countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I agree with you that you are, of course, right in many respects as far as the fully depleted financial capital is concerned. It was Treichl senior who once said: When he started banking, products that the bankers and customers understood were sold. Then came a time when the products were only understood more by the bankers, and today we have products that are no longer understood by both sides. This is the problem that we have in the financial markets today. I agree with you that measures such as financial transaction tax, if many participate, are ideally all involved, are sensible measures, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since the issue of location is the crucial issue of this current European hour, it is also about the question, and that is what it has brought to us that we have joined this European Union. And it really is a foolry to tell people that it would be more sensible to leave, it would be more sensible to stay alone, it would be more sensible to return to schilling. Some even want to introduce the crown again. There are all kinds of proposals. Some say that each country should have its own euro. So if you look at things a little realistic, you can actually see that Austria has benefited greatly from the euro and also from the accession to the European Union. It has already been said that 375 000 additional jobs. These are 17 000 additional jobs that have brought us to join the European Union each year. 17 000 people who find work, 17 000 people who have more meaning in their lives, ladies and gentlemen! That's not nothing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you know that virtually every second job now depends directly or indirectly on export, that almost 70 percent of our exports go to the European area, then it would be absurd to think that it would be better for us all to leave this common Europe. Not to be forgotten: the removal of customs formalities. 3 to 4 billion € annually saves the Austrian economy through this fact. As we are basically in favour of Croatia now, for example, 1st. In July, the European Union accedes to: There are still some who ask themselves whether the enlargement of the European Union makes sense or not. – In any case, it makes sense when it comes to Croatia. It must not be forgotten that we now have 750 Austrian companies that have a location in Croatia. So, for the Austrian economy and therefore for countless jobs, Europe makes sense, important and right, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8412	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8435	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haubner, you have said that figures and facts speak for this EU. I don't know, don't you know the current numbers? Do you not know the EU's economic growth figures? Don't you know the preview by the end of the year? Do you not know that the economy in Europe is stagnating, that there are some EU Member States where the economy is even in a deep recession? Do you know that despite billions of aid in the meantime, Greece has lost 30 percent of its economic performance in the last four and a half years? I don't know where you're taking your optimism. I must say, Minister of State, that you were much more honest. You said it was not so easy and the problems have not been solved until now. And the frequency of economic problems with financial problems is increasing. So that means it's absolutely no end in sight and you don't see any light at the end of the tunnel. Mr Matznetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of Mr Matznetter, we would like to propose to you for the next Nobel Prize, but we would already have a condition attached to it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] Mr Matznetter, would you be willing to list all cross-border business of SPÖ-led communities and institutions? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, cross-border business, which has been so incredibly successful and which has served to nothing but to avoid tax. - So much for your tax thoughts. But if you bring this list, we are willing to support you in your efforts to get the Nobel Prize, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now we are coming to the ÖVP as a so-called economic party. We are part of this EU and, according to all the statements of the members of the government, we are always the best in Europe, and you are not even talking about the EU, but that we are the best in Europe. I have already told you x-times that Norway and Switzerland belong to Europe. But you have obviously not yet taken note of that. These are, by the way, much better than that, in all the figures. But that doesn't matter. What did the government do? Once upon a time, I would expect you to do exactly what you do in the Chamber of Commerce, as the Federal Economic Officer, who sits inside you, to support these proposals, which are accepted there, which are partly very good, also in Parliament. But make it there. You're the exact opposite! In recent years, they have tied up two load packs that burden the Austrian economy and the Austrian citizens with amazing €50 billion by 2016. That's your success. So much about that: less taxes, simpler, less, more performance-friendly. You always preach it, you just don't. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And don't make sure your red partner doesn't join us here. They have found no warning words from the ÖGB, for example, in foolish proposals. I heard her today from the Federal Minister. He's totally right. You have to consider: If there are no more farms – and I give you 100 percent right, Minister Mitterlehner – then there are no jobs, and then there is no longer the possibility of making the money to top the social benefits that have been done so far. And if you've been listening to the ÖGB's proposals recently, after which the domestic economy is to be taxed with an additional €8 billion, I ask you: Where do you want to do this in case of record unemployment? Now on unemployment. In Europe, hundreds of billions of euros were taken into control, in cash and in liabilities to save the financial system. They do nothing else, and the ÖVP is a model example of that as lobbying for the international financial market and for the international large industry. There's nothing else you're doing. And do you know what the success was? – The “success” of these hundreds of billions that were taken into hand was record unemployment throughout Europe! According to EU statistics, we officially have 26.5 million unemployed in Europe, of which 6.5 million are unemployed. These are the EU statistics! If you look at EU statistics, you can see that Austria is 4.7 percent. There are 80 000 AMS participants at the end of April – 79 999 according to statistics – not yet included. If you are expanding this across Europe, then in Europe we have an unemployment rate of over 30 million, despite the fact that hundreds of billions of euros have been taken into control. And then you also believe that Europe in this form is a success project!Unknown term type: "%s".? Where are you? Don't you think? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They do nothing but lobbying for the financial sector and the large industry. It is absurd when the seven largest oil companies in the world profit 350 billion US dollars and the pensioner who can no longer afford heating. What do you think this will lead to social unrest if you don't slow down here? They are not in a position to propose rules to the financial market either in Austria or in Europe, which makes it quite clear that a different redistribution must take place. We told you at the time when you sent the first money to Greece – by the way – if you were sending money to Greece, then use it to stabilise the labour market and keep the economy in swing. You did exactly the opposite. And what is the case? – In five years a minus economic growth, a loss of over 30 percent of economic growth! And then you really still believe that we'll ever get a cent back from the money we've sunk here? No, no, no, They are on their way and you should bring the EU back to their original thoughts.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8538	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8560	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Haubner said: We need work for the people. That's right. We have heard it, more than 26 million unemployed in Europe, ten million more people than before the crisis, with unemployment rates in some countries of southern Europe around 27 percent, youth unemployment rates from 60 to 70 percent regional, in southern Spain, for example, but also in Greece. But we're not from the spot. Unemployment rates continue to rise. And the Minister referred to it, why. We have a weak growth in Europe. Yes, the latest forecasts have shown us that Europe, the Eurozone, is in a recession in the sixth quarter. One and a half years of recession! And, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and Mr Haubner, one must ask the question: Why is that so? Look we are a little behind the strategy pursued by the European Union to answer these questions. When we look at the EU concept, we see that it has always been the same for years and days. Consolidation of finances is one thing, reinforced by an austerity policy, especially in the countries of the south. And the second is to strengthen competitiveness through structural reforms. We have heard these answers before the crisis, but we have heard these answers since the crisis. However, we regularly miss the objectives with this strategy because we pursue a therapy that does not relate to the causes. We are fighting debt, and we are saying that we need to strengthen competitiveness. But the debts are the consequences of the crisis and not the trigger. The causes of the crisis have been deregulated financial markets, there has been an uneven distribution of income, in particular of wealth – and precisely there these structural measures do not follow. This is symptomatic of EU policy. Mr Haubner said that higher taxes on wealth are harmful to location. So I'd like an empirical proof before. This is a displeasure of the special class, let it remain at last! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us return to the structural reforms and see what structural reforms have been imposed on the countries of the South by the Troika! – These are wage cuts, which are interventions in the wage autonomy of the social partners, which are cuts in social benefits, which are cuts in minimum wages, which are privatisations. In one word: Wage dumping and social reduction! But who has benefited? – Not the states of southern Europe, no, but those states have gained benefits that call themselves export world champions, Austria, for example, but in particular Germany. What is behind the model of the export world champion Germany, what is behind the Austrian model? – There is a need to gain an advantage through extreme wage restraint in Germany through the development of an extremely strong low wage sector. With this policy, ladies and gentlemen, we will not come out of the weakness of growth in Europe if the burden of adaptation is not also felt by the states of northern Europe, by the surplus countries, in current account balances – Germany, the Netherlands, Austria – but only by the states of Southern Europe, with extreme social outrages. This policy, this insanity, is now to be extended by a pact for competitiveness, through bilateral agreements between the national states and the European Commission. In one word: What the troika imposes on the countries of southern Europe, this wage dumping and social reduction, is now to be Europeanised. Europe is going differently, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, if you are talking about or dreaming that we need a dynamic Europe with a competitive economy, I am replying to it: We need a change of course in Europe, a change of course, which offers money to drive business programmes. The German public budget will soon have surpluses again. Why are the Germans not fulfilling their responsibility for a more expansive policy? Or: Today, the European Council is meeting on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion. 1 trillion € annually escapes public households through tax fraud and tax evasion. The European Council today has the power to make nails with heads and to make money for an appropriate economic policy, for economic programmes in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8632	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8653	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since the ÖVP has today chosen the topic of competitiveness and economic location in Austria for the current European hour, I thought it will come up with new figures. Indeed, it is so – and it seems that some of you have already known before, otherwise the interest to listen to the debate, to follow the debate, not to be so overly negligent – that Austria, as far as competitiveness is concerned, is slipping ever further. It is already a matter of making this the subject as an economic party and the Austrian government party, knowing that we are continuing to lose competitiveness and that Austria is increasingly losing attraction. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have heard a beautiful speech by Mr Haubner – that is, for the wrong position you have taken – you have given an excellent speech, but the position was mistaken and wrong because he justified the economic policy of Austria in that we are only so good because Austria is a member of the European Union and a member of the eurozone. I'm assuming you're a businessman. I do not know how long your company has been, but I hope you know that there are also companies that have existed before membership of the European Community, that even before accession to the European Union we have traded with European Member States, even international trades. The world does not exist even since Austria has been with the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, but all the figures and facts have been calculated repeatedly since Austria became a member of the European Union. If you hear your conclusions, you really feel as if Austria had been a developing country before joining the European Union. No, Austria was not a developing country, ladies and gentlemen, but Austria has become a great country, a great economic location. From the ruins following the Second World War, many men and women have been proud to build this country in whose prosperity we are allowed to live today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We do not owe this to the European Union, but we owe it to the creative and labour force of many people and generations who have worked for this country. All of this has now fallen victim to the Brussels EU technicians. In an approach of self-criticism, Mr Mitterlehner has admitted at least one thing: that it would be much preferable for him to spend and invest the money we still have for research, development and innovation, instead of for pleite countries, unemployment in the south and for marode banks. That was an approach to self-criticism, and that should now follow action, Minister of State Mitterlehner! The most glorious act would be to finally bring taxes to a lower level once again, instead of adding this sluggish evolution of taxes and charges upwards, which is currently taking place. That would be the best service to the economy you could provide. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A few economists are still in the ÖVP. Mr Federal Minister, you yourself have said that a small, medium-sized entrepreneur has no pleasure in being a self-employed person today. He already advises his children to enter official status because independence in Austria means almost self-exploitation and remains less and less under the rule, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There are clear statistical records that prove this. In Austria we have a tax and tax burden of 53 percent. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: That's not true! Expenditure ratio!]] The Germans have 46 percent, and the European average is 42 percent. No wonder, Minister of State, that so many employers have to lock up so many small middle-sized workers and can no longer even afford to go into retirement. This is the picture of the small, medium-sized entrepreneurs in Austria. That is why there can be no more sensible measure than to reduce taxes and push down the tax burden, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The recipe at European level cannot be that we constantly support the Marod banks and the Pleitelands – in view of the fact that nothing turns to the positive, everything gets worse and worse. The debt burden is increasing even in those countries that we support with billions of money in which savings policy is operated, where unemployment is rising, where there is no perspective. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must consider Austria's economic location. That's our future. Forget the past of the European southern countries, which no longer emerge from their maritime situation!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8714	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8735	Mr President. High house! We have heard from many people today that Austria is relatively good in the European comparison. The question now arises why. Why, for example, are we relatively better off than other countries in some areas of unemployment? There is a reason for this, which unfortunately will be kept silent again and again. The reason for this is that we – historically considered and still up-to-date – are hanging on the economic locomotive of Germany. This has always been the case, and it will probably continue to be the case in the future. Germany benefits from an undervalued euro, which does not compensate for the different balance of payments flows and is thus artificially low. That is, Germany exports above average, Germany exports much, much more than it should normally be. Germany has more than 10 percent trade surplus, with other countries having more than 10 percent trade deficits. Germany has a model built on sand. Germany is not only export world champion, no, Germany not only exports goods – Germany also exports money. That is, Germany has a model that from my point of view is very, very peculiar. First, it exports money via TARGET2 and via the Deutsche Bundesbank to those countries that then buy the products with the money of the Germans, and no one asks whether the money will ever come back. That is to say, in this game, nearly 1,000 billions have already been accumulated in the TARGET2 system. The Germans and we Austrians are pleased that all of this will work so perfectly – until evil awakening comes, and I tell you that evil awakening will come. Then the question is, and I ask this question here today, because this question has not yet been asked: Are we prepared to see that the German economic locomotive is growing? Then what are we doing in Austria? I can tell you – we saw that in 2008 – when the engine dies in Germany, it will be with us. That was in 2008, and then we learned that we need reserves. We need reserves to be able to intervene in labour market policy. But what did we do, 2008? - We just made more debts. This is what we are suffering today. If this happens again in the near future, and it will happen – I am not a blind man, but I can prophesy to you, it will happen; also all experts say that –: Are we prepared then? - No, we're not! Why aren't we prepared? - Because this government has been doing nothing for years. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] When I think of all the projects that were planned before this legislative period! – For five years we have experienced a standstill, and now it is about quickly implementing a few points before the National Council election. But it doesn't even work. There is a long list: Teacher service law, for example. – Reasonable things, but they are not implemented because the union is blocked. Rental right: The supplements should finally be discussed and put into a proper law. - It's not done either. No speculation: It's blocked. Reform of democracy, minority law, with regard to the establishment of committees of inquiry in Parliament, official secrecy, federal army. What didn't they promise us? If military service remains, there are great reforms. Where are they? - Nothing happened. I'm not talking about the big construction sites yet. I am not yet talking about the educational construction site, the health office, the huge pension office or the administration. Nobody does anything, nothing happens in this country. It's just a standstill, and this standstill will cause us to stand there, when the crisis breaks out again – and it breaks out – with down pants. We have no room in the budget. We have no room, even though the money is formally on the street. There are international studies, and there are also some studies in Austria that prove this. 1 billion is lost due to social fraud. – We could get the money, but nothing happens. 1 billion is lost by sham companies. What are we doing? - Nothing! 2 billion are lost due to tax fraud. What's going on? - Nothing! 3 billion are lost by Push and Over 20 billion through corruption. That is, the money is on the street, that is, we here in the House must make proper laws. As an opposition, we give you the hand as a government. Let us make proper laws before the National Council election, which go exactly in this direction, and prove to the citizen that we can and are not just a subscriber of the government. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8842	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8863	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I was actually hoping that I could somehow stop speaking to my predecessor and perhaps replicate it. I have to say that you are in good company with Mr Markowitz, who has also started with A and finished with Z, and his bow has been so “good” that it is not possible to stick to it in any way. [[in the direction of the Abg. Ing. Lugar]] As you can only do this – the talk about youth unemployment was much better – from the “bankomatkassa” to the trade unions, very scurry. You said I should replicate it. You can't replicate. It was such a creeping madness that it was best not to replicate it. What we see, I think, is that Austria is very good in the context of Europe – you should see that, especially since you are always talking about high economic competence. Mr Haubner, I believe, has said that the Social Democratic Party places it as a “party of work” and that posters do not create work. – Yes, I agree with you, but it is not just the economy that creates jobs, because the economy depends very much on the political circumstances in which it is located. We all know that we are so attractive to foreign companies, to large employers only because politics in Austria also creates the necessary framework conditions for these settlements. We have a good crime rate, that is, we have social peace. We have a social state that takes a lot of action. We are dealing with youth unemployment – the lowest rate in all of Europe: every unemployed youth is too much, too much, too much to talk about. We are putting forward initiatives, spending a lot of money, much more money than the European Union to combat youth unemployment. Mr Haubner mentioned the Horizon 2020 project with 80 billion. On the other hand, 6 billion for youth unemployment. – Yes, you have to think where we want the European Union to go, I believe we agree. We must also see, however, that the 6 billion have been used to combat youth unemployment, because the Austrian Federal Government has made itself very strong in Europe because Rudi Hundstorfer, with his models of youth work, job guarantee, job coaching, is intertwined with all these models across Europe and has advertised them in the European Union to see how to bring out our youth unemployment models. Mr Federal Minister, you have referred to the Europe/USA agreement. But we also know that by these ILO core labour standards, which have been formulated worldwide, America has only ratified two out of eight. These are things like: not child labour, allowing trade unions and all these things. That is, since an agreement is to be concluded when you know that the partner does not adhere to many of these rules of play, which are quite common sense in the international workers' movement, of course, makes this a little more difficult. Question Social Fund. – Today, Rudi Hundstorfer has already spoken, Minister Mitterlehner, two former social partners – I say – and the social partners continue to live in the government. The model of the social partners It is something that makes us unique in Europe, including in dealing with crises such as we had in dealing with unemployment. We remember short-term work agreements, we remember all the models that have managed to keep as many people as possible in Austria in employment. The Stronach team has just recently said that the trade unions are the brakers in Austria, trade unions are not needed, are an antique instrument that has been used to solve problems, but now they only have their rights in individual cases. – Mr Lugar, dear Mr Stronach, trade unions are responsible for the fact that workers come to their right! Mr Mitterlehner, you have called the ÖGB programme a load programme of €11 billion and €8 billion, depending on who calculates it. – We have called for a relief programme for employees in Austria, for a simple reason: because we know that workers have been taxed more than over a fee in the crisis. Any burden on workers or, as you may call it, relief of the economy or any return to social benefits – as you have said – can be learned from the European Union and returned to social services – creates dissatisfaction in the country and creates unemployment. We've seen that in recent years. – There will be neither social democracy nor the social-democratic trade unions!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8939	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e8961	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators! Let me sum up the current European hour with the following words: Europe strengthens the strengths of Austria and weakens the weaknesses of Austria. – This small innovative country in the heart of Europe has gained enormous importance through the large community in international competition. We have contributed to this Europe, we are part of Europe, and we have also learned to take advantage of it. What can this Europe do with us? – It is about winning global competition that we bring innovation performance to a concrete product, to a concrete workplace, to a concrete benefit. This only happens if we have well-trained employees, if we have high-performance and innovative businesses and if we have the courage and the self-confidence to export worldwide. That is why Europe is: to be well placed in this global competition together. The field of education is not a construction site, but an export product is located in education. Vocational training is one of our key success factors and is at the same time the idea that we can carry out throughout the world. At the age of 19, 80 per cent of our young people not only have a high level of education, they also have vocational training which they can contribute to and contribute to our small and medium-sized enterprises. What does that bring us? – Let me illustrate this in the example of a small Upper Austrian company. INOCON GmbH has around 50 employees and highly risky and innovative owners. The employees generally have an HTL degree, a degree of the conclusion of our higher technical schools. They have developed a globally innovative process in the field of high-performance welding technology and soldering processes, a technology that is needed worldwide in medicine, industry and the leisure industry. The fact that the Federal Minister Mitterlehner comes from this innovative federal state assures us that such innovative businesses will be supported in the future and can export Europe-wide and worldwide. [[call to the FPÖ]] We need economic support for this, and we also need a corresponding educational development. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we also need entrepreneurs who support us who are willing to carry this risk. In the example of the INOCON company, the owner who had invested in a sustainable way was the owner, because in the short term the success would not always have been possible. That's how it's very easy for innovations. We must not make it more difficult by more taxes, but by tax relief. This is the future that we need to go into: not even more requirements, not more regulations, but debureaucratisation, targeted economic support for innovation and tax relief, so that we can also support these businesses that secure our jobs every day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek]] We do not create jobs, it is the businesses that create jobs. And that is why it is about promoting education, science, research and innovation to the extent that we have done it so far, and others like the INOCON company will be able to export successfully worldwide in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9036	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9057	Mr President. Mrs Cortolezis, since you are wearing such a beautiful blue dress today, I am not sure how to deal with you like Europe with Austria, namely to strengthen the strengths of your speech and to weaken the weaknesses of your speech, because I do not think much of the strengths; only one: [[Call the ÖVP:Frequent!]] You should have noticed in all the weaknesses and strengths of your speech that we are in this Europe in that region of the world, which has had the greatest economic difficulties for five years. We live in a region – now I am not even talking about the euro zone alone, we are just talking about the EU – which has been stagnating for five years and will stagnating in 2013. [[Abg. Amon: Would you rather live in China?]] [[Abg. Amon: Would you rather live in China?]] There are no such problems – not in Africa, not in North America, not in South America, nor in Asia, by the way, nor in Australia, nor in Oceania, nor do I know any country with such problems – and there must be any reasons for that. [[Abg. Amon: Would you rather live there?]] [[Abg. Amon: Would you rather live there? Africa? China?]] Interestingly, no one addresses these reasons. [[Call the BZÖ: This is the government!]] If you allow your eyes to wander across from left to right: You hear a few phrases that we've been re-introduced for years. Mr Matznetter and the other colleagues from this side want to collect taxes. – Well, all we lack is tax collection; then we have money, then there are economic programmes. Unlike the Greens, Mr Matznetter accepts that there is currently no money for economic programmes, therefore: Withholding taxes. Mr Amon thinks that it is in principle all right, because the euro zone – as far as I can remember – brings 17 000 jobs a year. And customs formalities also fall away, so it's all good. The colleague of the SPÖ has said that the most important thing is to maintain our social standards, then more passive. [[Call the SPÖ:Do you think?]] But I have never heard anything you hear in all the deep economic analyses, and that is the question: What does the euro zone have to do with this crisis? Why are the countries in the south, why are Greece, Spain, Italy, Portugal and Co unable to recover from the crisis? Why? – I hardly know an analysis that does not come to the conclusion: because they do not create the euro zone, because they cannot participate in this hard currency zone and because they do not succeed in regaining their competitiveness. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is done – that has been mentioned – is the reduction of social security, the reduction of wage levels and so on; this is what you try. This means trying to devalue inside, but this is of course a halfhearted thing and leads to enormous social disruptions, leading to the questioning of democracy in some areas of these societies. - That's something we don't want. Now, if I were to argue like Mr Lugar, I would say: I wonder why this is not the subject. But I also wonder why it is not possible to address the problem of immigration in Europe – and that is why I come back to the topic of the current hour – and why this is only commented on with humor and ridicule and with absurdities. I mean, there is not only a social minister in Europe, there are many dog-tores in Europe, but still the European Commission has made a paper on migration and the future, in which all this is presented positively, but where you find the figures, the Minister refuses to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl]] In 2011 – the last paper reports on 2011 – we gave 2.5 million first-time residence permits to third-country nationals, there were 303,000 asylum applications and between 2.6 million – most cautious estimate – and – realistic estimate – 4.5 million illegal immigrants, as well as 203 000 deportations and similar residence-ending measures. - I don't need to figure out how the difference affects you. Let me say to you that this does not affect unemployment, employment, wage levels, social circumstances and social peace in Europe, especially in view of what the main immigration countries are. Is that perhaps Austria, Germany or Holland? – No, first Spain, second in Italy, third in France, fourth in Greece, and then in the UK. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] No one can tell me that this isn't completely crazy. Everything went out of the row. If we can no longer mention such a subject, such a burden on citizens in these countries, without – as Mr Korun has done – reducing it to the fact that the great-grandfather of Mr Attila Dogudan should then be shown, I do not understand the world. In conclusion: I ask everyone to follow our example here – and this is the free example – and to look at things realistically, not with the scams of ideology, not religiously, but in the interests of the citizens concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9192	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9213	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, colleagues from the government parties have rightly emphasized the success of the European Union, the success of the Austrian economic location. – But you must not forget that there are also blatant weaknesses about these successes, and let yourself say one thing: It is not the past success, according to which society, economics and politics are assessed, but it is the prospects for the future that are now important, and that is to be assessed. We are in a difficult situation, in Europe as in Austria: Unemployment is increasing, especially among young people, and there must be an increase in unemployment. The question needs to be asked how we can create safe, good jobs, and that is, of course, about investment in the future. This is about investing in safe and environmentally friendly energy supply. This is about climate protection, environmental protection. It is about innovative products and services, and we are of course on the major topics of education, research and development. And if you look at the figures and facts, then it is not as pleasing, not as rosy as the picture that is drawn today – no, on the contrary – and not only at European level, but also in Austria. At European level: As the budgets for the period 2014 to 2020 are being negotiated, we know that this very future-oriented sector should receive a budget that does not even meet the challenges in the approach. There's a lot more to it. The Minister has already stressed today – with regard to youth unemployment, but this also applies to research and development – that: The 69 billion will be too little, it will need at least 80 billion. – These are the challenges. An innovation system, which is being designed here, is, of course, much more complex and wider, so that good jobs for the future are created accordingly. This is about education, it is about openness of a society, it is about good framework conditions for businesses and, of course, it is also about reducing administrative agendas. This is, of course, a question of making rules easier, for example, because in Austria we are also concerned with shattering the trade regulations and strengthening one-person companies and small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, it is also about making budgets sustainable, i.e. with a modern approach to the structure of revenue. Of course, it is a matter of course of providing for environmental and social re-taxation in revenue – and this, ladies and gentlemen, is long overdue. It also looks like the budget for research and development in Austria. We will discuss the Federal Financial Framework 2014 to 2017 tomorrow, and, ladies and gentlemen, what is available here is actually not sustainable. Finally, the research and development area will lose millions of euros over the years, and in real terms, taking into account the inflation rate, much more. This is a very worrying development, Minister. There is also a standstill in the budget group allocated to you on research and development. Standstill, mine Ladies and gentlemen, this is a step backwards in this important future sector. We need more investment in the field of research and development, in the field of environmental protection, both in Austria and at European level, and we need to work on it. It is important to end the standstill and to make the future here in this form sustainable.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9261	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9283	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! On today’s theme “The Challenges at the Economic Location Europe and Austria” I would have expected to be introduced by the ÖVP at the beginning. A look at Europe's economic location shows: It's anything but pink. We now have around 26 million unemployed. A comparison with 2008 – outbreak of the crisis – shows: It was about 10 million less, then it was 16 million. That means: There has been a great deal of money in the hands of the people of Europe, and we have an additional 10 million unemployed in response. Youth unemployment is a very special problem, with about 6.5 million unemployed young people. I entered into a partnership with an Italian community, Placanica in Calabria. I can only tell anyone to look at something like this on site: If there is a youth unemployment of 50 percent and more, you can see how desperate these people are. There is nothing more socially harmful than refusing to work, so everything needs to be done to create jobs. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr President!]] Job creation is only about a thriving economy, and there are, of course, appropriate measures. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner speaks to the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] In contrast to the first speaker of the ÖVP, the Minister of Economic Affairs was quite prepared to list the trends that can be described as negative trends. So now we'll wait a little until Mr Pilz has his information. [[Abg. Grosz: Yes, let's just interrupt! as a plenartourist again!]] Are you all right? [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: (returning to his seat) Yes, yes, go on!]] - Well, everything's fine. Peter Pilz gets advice from the Minister of Economic Affairs. There are, of course, also problematic developments in this area – and not to close your eyes: Europe does not create economic growth in 2013. It is nice that we will create one in Austria, though a small one – it may, or hopefully, still be increased upwards. For Austria, this is really a good situation, but it is a pan-European view: We have no economic growth. In addition to this lack of economic growth, we also have a debt that is enormous. Compared with others, this brings us into a defensive, and the question is what incentives we can create. I'm just saying, Young entrepreneurs really expect incentives. I also say: Tax policy. To all those who believe that increased taxes will make it easier for the economy: The opposite will be the case. International companies and companies will make a price comparison, so I would like to address a particular problem here, namely that of energy prices. There is a very remarkable interview with Walter Boltz, the head of the E-Control, in today’s “Kurier”, and I quote from it two questions and the corresponding answers: Question: “When will electricity and gas in Austria finally become cheaper?” Answer: "For three years, the electricity price has been falling in wholesale trade and retail prices have not done anything. The suppliers try everything they need not to lower prices. For they have losses with their gas power plants or abroad.” Question: "High energy prices in Europe are even a topic at today's EU summit. Is the problem really that big?" Answer: "In the EU, high prices are slowly becoming a serious problem for industry. Europe has always had higher energy prices than the US. But in the last three to four years, the distance has grown enormously. Europe sells the industry and also creates energy poverty because many people can no longer afford energy." My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we too are called for, especially as the government is required. Federal Minister! There are numerous requests from the BZÖ on this subject. I think you have to step in there. I have chosen a comparison here, the source is the energy price monitoring October 2012, example gas price, wholesale price development in the period July 2008 to October 2012: plus 12.4 percent. – The increase was 30 percent and more. That's not all right. Example Electricity price, wholesale price development in the period July 2008 to October 2012: minus 23.8 percent. – The price increase was still 20 percent. Mr. Minister, there's a lot to do here. This was just a small section of action. It is a pity that the ÖVP was not man enough to announce further measures still in place here today. The economy has no time. Better today than tomorrow!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9357	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9378	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now give me a few minutes towards the end of the discussion, so that I can sum up a few points or answer a few questions that have been raised here. I would like to thank you for the constructive, differentiated and further discussion that I see. I would like to comment on three points. The first point is: Mr Matznetter noted that Spain had no problem with the problem of indebtedness. That would be just a question of redistribution, which is the reason for the difficulties. I can quote what Spain's actual debt development is: From 2010 to 2012, there was the 10 percent net deficit in terms of the respective budget, and since 2010 – 60 percent in real terms – an increase to 84 percent in total debt. Therefore: Spain has a huge problem, which is the dynamics of debt and the fact that one could not balance the budgets. This is also the background to the difficulties. The most interesting economic policy presentation in my opinion came from Mr Rossmann. Mr Rossmann, you are going in a wide range of passages, which the IHS has also noted once in a summary of the problems, namely that Germany and other export-strong states have co-financed part of the export success due to wage restraint. – As far as the IHS and other experts with you are concerned. But in the consequence, if you now take over the argument of southern states, I think you have a serious mistake that the IHS does not make, namely the problem that you have de facto used exports on a credit basis. Look at the structures in Greece or in other indebted countries: There's no industry there. But there, on the basis of officials and pensions – even now – one has much more consumption than Slovakia and other comparable countries. And Germany and Austria have waived part of their export performance with a lack of debt, debt cuts and their loans. That means they pay the bill anyway. If you go here now and demand in the consequence, well, they should continue to finance the export programmes and the economic programmes – do you know what happens there? – There is nothing more than a continuation of the crisis, because in turn one disappears and de facto says that it is enough money in the market. And that I'm lying right, you'll notice the following: The EU has set up so-called project alliances. These are not Eurobonds. The European Investment Bank is funded by the European Investment Bank, which is used to force projects in Europe that have an economic background. Do you know where the projects come from? – From Central Europe and Northern Europe, not from the south – because this is the problem! And so the course that the Troika, the IMF or anyone has ordered is a real course. Unfortunately, one can only achieve competitiveness there through appropriate restructurings, which does not go any way. Third point: Mrs Oberhauser – she is not present at the moment but does not do anything, she will be safely directed – you say, in the form, nothing will be restructured at the expense of the workers. As I say to you, because the costs there have increased so, that's right. Look For example, you can only pay the fees in Vienna: 30 percent increase in fees in Vienna! You should turn your energy to that at the Trade Union Congress, not to the economy! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mrs Lichtenecker, it's all right, just one thing is wrong, what's happening to research and development. Just yesterday, we made a broadcast and showed that Austria has developed very dynamically in relation to other nations. We have increased at the F&E quota despite a difficult budget environment. – This yesterday’s broadcast is to be read. Mr Windholz, last but not least: It's great when you quote the e-control. But can you also read how correct the e-control is always when it comes to future assessment of how the electricity price develops?- Oh, my God! She said he's going up by 25 percent in the next few years. In fact, we have a stagnant development, it could even go further down. And anyone who does not predict higher prices will not see the market going into this development either. We have prepared a number of measures, such as the electronic change of providers, in order to support this path. I believe that the crucial point lies with us: towards strengthening competitiveness, strengthening businesses and not redistribution and other measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9454	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9475	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, thank you very much for your comments and your second speech. It would have been nice if you had waited until the round of the political groups had ended and you could have taken my contribution to the debate in your reply. But maybe it's the next time. What are the challenges facing Europe and Austria? This was the theme of today's current European hour. It's now coming to an end. I would like to focus briefly on a few points. There was a lot of talk about it from the previous speakers. Problems have been identified. It was shown where there is a need for action and where it is necessary to work. We all know that the National Council election is about to take place in autumn. Whether something will be changed by then, whether this government will change until then? - I don't think so. Let us pass the problems of Revue again! We have the highest debt in Austria, we have a per capita debt of € 40 000. Interests, ladies and gentlemen, eat our hair off our heads. We have an administration, not only in Austria, but also in the EU. We have few incentives, few tax incentives for business start-ups, for companies. We have an extremely high tax and tax rate in Austria. The more debts are made, the less prosperity there is; that has been mentioned many times today, that is also true. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, also a few words addressed to you! However, the ÖGB does a bear service to your party and also to Parliament and the Austrians when it proposes a billion-height tax package as a discharge package and also answers the asset tax again or wants to introduce it again, which is unfair, which is a expropriation tax and which is absolutely rejected. Thank God you do not have a partner here in the current coalition partner as far as this property tax is concerned. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Debt making in the federal and in the countries must be stopped. The expensive, exaggerating administration must be reduced. And companies investing domestically have to be taxed off. With regard to debt making, I would like to refer briefly to the ban on speculation, which is not on the agenda today, but which will be debated following this debate, because the government parties still do not agree with their blockers, with the national leaders – mainly called Pröll and Häupl – who oppose this speculation ban. But, ladies and gentlemen, we need a ban on speculation! We need this ban on speculation, as well as the administrative reduction that has already been mentioned. We're over-advertised. That is true, one must say again and again, because it is probably only in the minds of the acting persons in the government and the representatives of the government parties. I would also like to lose a few words on Europe. Europe does not need centralization, but we need self-determined Member States. Every centralization is at the expense of competition and prosperity. And we need competition and prosperity, ladies and gentlemen. I should also like to quote a passage from Mr Minister's speech, where I am entirely of his opinion, when he says that if we do not have businesses, we also have no jobs and no prosperity. – I'll give you a hundred percent right, Minister. But, as mentioned earlier, there are not enough incentives for business start-ups, tax incentives for businesses. I would like to put our model of employee participation on the tapet. We want to relieve small and medium-sized enterprises – on the one hand, relieve them so that there is no membership of the Chamber and no compulsory fees. Membership should take place on a voluntary basis; if the chambers do something, then people will be happy to pay for it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We want, as has been said, to tax entrepreneurs investing domestically and to support companies investing in their own businesses with the 10% tax; if they pass it on to employees, they should not have to pay a tax. This is the model of employee participation, because this will also motivate employees. If these are involved in the profits of the company, they are more motivated, better results are achieved and all are better. It doesn't mean for nothing. “It’s good for the economy, we’re all good.” Ladies and gentlemen! This was, in short, my view of today's subject of the current hour of Europe. Finally, I would like to give the active persons a quote along the way, a quote by Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, and may you ask that you take this to heart and also listen well: “Man can do a great deal if he only wants to.” – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9554	No further words are available. I therefore conclude the debate. [[12:11:22]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9576	We now come to the debate on the objections to the agenda of the clubman Bucher. As already indicated, the speaking time is 5 minutes each. We are going into the debate. Mr Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9603	Mr President. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen – especially the guests from Styria! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] We from the BZÖ have called for this objection debate because in the meantime a number of things have happened again. There has been a development around the ban on speculation, which you really have to break on the tongue. For many months here in the house, we have exchanged about the possibilities to finally ban speculation with taxes on pump. We have missed out on uniform accounting in Austria, on accounting rules which should not only be made by the Federal Government here in the House, but also by all countries as a matter of course. That is to say, a uniform accounting system across Austria, so that the Court of Auditors too is finally satisfied, is rightly satisfied and can examine what happens to the tax money in our country. Then we have come to the conclusion that many countries do not want to. The countries have refused. On the other hand, the Landesführers Pröll and Häupl were aware that there was a uniform federal rule as regards accounting and a uniform ban on speculation, as set out in the Constitution. Then there was a national conference. In this national conference – I am now reading the APA message of 25th April. April – said Mr. Markus Wallner from Vorarlberg: “We will no longer let ourselves be danced around on the nose and continue in the implementation undamaged.” – No longer on the nose, he wants to let himself be, the chairman of the national conference. I quote: “The countries have no increased interest in participating in the National Council”, says Wallner. Scheingfechte are being led here in the Hohen Haus. [[Abg. Head: But from the opposition!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, you have to explain this to us now, which Scheingfechte are being fought there. From the beginning we had only one honest face from the BZÖ: Tax funds are inviolable for speculators in this country. Finally, we have to stop speculating. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] And it's negligent. It is also, ladies and gentlemen of red and black, a pure plantation of taxpayers you are doing. As you are always telling the public how important it is to you that there is a ban on speculation. You blame the opposition, where we were maximum willing to go to you and respond to your demands. You yourself have been involved in the negotiations, which have also been correct and approved of what we have called for, namely the involvement of the Court of Auditors. He is supposed to tell us how he wants to know the most appropriate and best the bookkeeping of the countries, the communities, the cities, but also of the total 380 distributed societies that exist in Austria. There are 380 distributed societies where there is no ban on speculation. They can do with taxpayers' money and leave whatever they want. The Court of Auditors cannot give an opinion, it cannot examine it. You want to allow all of this to continue. I am curious about what Mr Cap will reply to what Mr Wallner said in the APA report. That's what it says: “The SPÖ, in turn, block the revised 15a provision, which, in addition to the implementation of the speculation ban, also includes regulations that according to Wallner would lead to a better comparability of the budget rules.” Well, now you are suddenly the debtbock, according to Wallner, according to ÖVP. You're blocking that. Why are you blocking that? Give us the answer! I am already waiting for it and then above all for the replica of the ÖVP, as it actually holds it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is all just a shit of SPÖ and ÖVP! You are the ones who really do not want a ban on speculation. You want the countries, the cities, the municipalities, the 380 distributed societies to continue to operate as they have done in the past. We from BZÖ want a ban on speculation in the Constitution. We want uniform rules of play for all those dealing with taxpayers in Austria. It is hard-earned tax billions, which are in circulation by the workers and workers, by the entrepreneurs in our country. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] Now I want you to take care of this! I hope that Mr Cap will finally make a clarification here.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9660	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9681	You can make a little more intelligent opposition policy, Mr Klubobmann, because you know exactly how the negotiating lines are going here in the house. [[Abg. Bucher: Clear text!]] You know very well that what SPÖ and ÖVP have proposed ultimately also found the approval of the President of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Grosz: Torped by their own national leaders! From Pröll and Häupl!]] And this is an agreement that is very important to us, because the President of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors have always been involved in the debate and have presented proposals, we have taken up these proposals, with the aim of finding, in respect of the tax money, a regulation that is important for the whole of Austria and which must also be observed in the countries. [[Abg. Bucher: How do you interpret Mr Wallner?]] [[Abg. Grosz: Classic defense!]] This is about a single accounting system, which is about a new budgetary law. Look, I just need to look at that bluff in your ranks. You don't take this seriously at all. That's the truth. [[Abg. May. Kogler: “Bubble ”?- Oh, my God!]] No, I didn't mean the greens. I was at the BZÖ right now. You should take this more seriously. [[Abg. Grosz: Your national leaders are torpedoing this!]] Yeah, you should take this more seriously. This is also important for us because there are examples which should not be repeated, and because the taxpayer and the taxpayer rightly say: This should not be repeated, there should be clear rules. And we're for clear rules. We believe that the National Council is called upon to take steps here, too, so that there are these clear rules, but, as you know, we need a two-thirds majority here for a provision that really applies to the countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Why don't you do anything?]] If we present a proposal and the Court of Auditors or the President of the Court of Auditors supports it, then only the question arises: Where is the third party or the fourth party, which then decides together with us here? And if one now pretends from election tactics as if one wanted a regulation – we have no majority with you anyway. [[towards BZÖ]] But it is about the liberals and possibly the Greens going along with a solution which is then binding on the countries. That's what it's all about! If we do not have a third party at our disposal, it will have to explain it. That, I suppose, is what Mr Wallner meant. As he comes to say that we're blocking something, I don't know, he must have been kind of confused. We do not block anything at all, but we have made a template with the coalition partner to which we stand. We will continue to decide on these as soon as possible. The liberals were just about to agree. The liberal negotiator has already agreed to this. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They can also be failed!]] Then you got rid of it again. And now I wonder why the liberals do not agree, because that would be the two-thirds majority. I am not talking about the Greens, because they have moved back to some position that is not supposed to play a role here, because they have no desire to vote; they do not seem to be particularly concerned with finding anti-speculation regulations here. [[Abg. May. Kogler: No!]] – Mr Kogler, you can then leave it to yourself, but funny that you do not offer yourself for serious negotiations on it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We left the topic to the Burgstaller!]] So to say that we don't want anything there, or to sit down with an ultimatum – I didn't understand the speaker of the national conference Wallner either. What's he talking about? Which Ultimates? Where are we at all? The question is that the two government parties need a third party, and one cannot find it with an ultimatum, but with persuasiveness and the appeal that the National Council should send this signal. If you want to act responsibly – I now look at the liberals and the Greens – if you really want to take care of the taxpayers, you really want to have a regulation that makes speculation impossible, then you have to decide this. The criteria that are necessary are given. First: The work of the Court of Auditors should be facilitated. That is one of the reasons why the Court of Auditors is in favour of it, it seems. Secondly, There should be a uniformity in order to enable the Court of Auditors to carry out audit work or to facilitate that one comes out of this regular salad federal/national and has a uniform budgetary law and so on. These are issues, and I think that the citizen has the right to learn. – Thank you for having this objection debate, yes, so we can present it again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] We do not need external calls in this context, but we should be able to do so ourselves. SPÖ and ÖVP are ready to do so – so we need a third party anyway – but we need a third party. And I think the speakers should explain why, despite the approval of the Court of Auditors and the President of the Court of Auditors, they are not willing to agree to this. What's the real reason? The real reason – not the pre-played reason because we just have election struggle, but the real reason! I would like to appeal to the speakers after me – you will come right away – to express your views. You then have to explain, both outside and inside here, about the media, television or whatever, why you don't participate – apparently because you need any electoral campaign ammunition – or there's a change, but then please explain this here so that we can finally decide together.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9858	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9881	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Klubobmann Cap, the repeated debate, which is grateful today, shows a lot. If this government were really serious with the ban on speculation, then you would finally be taking it on the agenda so that we could carry out appropriate discussions, continue the negotiations in the Committee and then have a result that we could vote on once. The basic problem is that you have not addressed any of the proposals that have so far come from the opposition side. What is the basic problem, Mr Klubobmann Cap and Mr Klubobmann Head? As far as I know, you personally have not even answered my letter to date, Mr Klubobmann. We have made concrete proposals for solutions in writing. Of course, it is necessary to debate which of the terms – “risk-affected” or “mortal-safe” – is better. We believe that oral security would be the right way not to open speculation holes and interpretation possibilities. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But lock it up. They are from the SPÖ and the ÖVP, of course also the heads of state, because it is unpleasant if this is laid down by law with such clear terms. We think that with the safety of the mouth we can ensure that, and we want to make sure there are no back doors. But there's the devil in the detail. Of course, we can all agree to this today on the Constitutional Law, on the first part, § 16, absolutely positive. The positives already mentioned are: common budgetary law, common accounting. - Yes, excellent. And we will also submit a request concerning § 16, which you can then immediately agree to. That means no one's gonna stop you from doing it, and that's going to be the nail sample. What we do not want is the second part, § 17, where instead of the speculation ban, the speculation hole is opened, namely by the back door of an empowerment law. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And here you are looking for a cheap Jacob, who offers red and black with a constitutional majority the opportunity in the future to peer through everything by a simple majority, that you and the heads of state in the Article 15a agreements then have the sovereignty of interpretation, which is speculation and which is not. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is in the truest sense of the word a completely inappropriate process in order to really prohibit speculation. This is exactly what we are talking about, and that is the crucial point: We will not be a cheap Jacob and give you an authorisation law so that You can then continue, as you want, because we are responsible and we want to have the safety of the mouth inside and we want to ensure that the constitutional good is enforced, but also with constitutional majority as to how the areas of speculation are to be defined. Of course, I do not want to follow the example of the Wiener SPÖ, where public taxpayers and areas of responsibility are outsourced into holding companies, where the Court of Auditors cannot control anything and is then speculated forward. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is what Mr. Landeshupmann Häupl might imagine. There you are the guardian of this head of state, the money in these areas, namely public Money, let go, let go, let go of any control, and actually live up to exactly what we want to prevent. There must be audit checks everywhere. For these areas too, we need a definition that one cannot speculate there – even where it is not about borrowings, but rather about revenue and reserves, as with housing companies and cooperatives, which one cannot of course use for speculation. However, these areas have not yet been regulated. You have not received any of our proposals. This shows you don't mean it seriously with the ban on speculation. Then, as national leaders do in part, produce and speak of a blockade that is fixed by Mr. Landeshuppmann Wallner towards the SPÖ, being pushed by others towards opposition, is in the truest sense of the word dishonest and also a ugliness if you think you can sell the citizens for stupid. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are all the opposition parties who have made many proposals that take this issue very seriously and want to exercise responsibility and do not have a constitutional law, which at the end of years later shows that one could continue to speculate, because no truly powerful and safe speculation was decided. That's what it's all about. This is the responsibility that all the opposition parties here in the House live seriously and responsibly. But you keep trying to turn through and display it differently by means of your rhetoric. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] This is exactly what we have written to you: § 16 we can decide immediately, but, as has been said, the empowerment law for § 17 in this form is not certain.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e9998	Next speaker: Mr Dkfm. Dr. stupid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10019	Mr President. High house! We had the same debate quite a month ago. Mr Klubobmann Bucher, the parole here seems to be: Because of success prolonged! – It will not be a success today, because you can't make anyone know that no speculation ban will be decided here. You know! [[Abg. May. Kogler: There's none yet!]] The government immediately responded after the Salzburg scandal. Already in January there has been an agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder, the Municipal Government and the Municipal Government with very important principles. You all know that anyway. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You decide a license to speculate! Don't you understand?]] You think you have to show a spectacle here, just because pre-election time is. I quote head, chief has once said: [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are the chairman of the Financial Committee, you need to know! License to speculate!]] Pre-election times are times of focused inflexibility! Mr Kogler, you know, I appreciate you – I have always said so – but your behaviour on this issue is completely incomprehensible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I think you, too, Mr Klubobmann Strache, are sitting in the Court of Auditors case. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What about the Wallner?]] I mean the following: If the Court of Auditors is often rightly criticizing the government, you are fully in line with the Court of Auditors and are grateful for the Court of Auditors' arguments. But if, as in this case, the Court of Auditors is on the side of the government parties, you say: No, that's all too little, the Court of Auditors should control much more! [[Abg. Strache: At § 17 there are also the critical points there!]] Ask the President of the Court of Auditors, you have already spoken to him, I know, and he has said: There are also other ways, but this path is also common. You have to decide: Do you recognize the Court of Auditors as the supreme authority and control authority, yes or no? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] But apply the Rosins principle and say: If we are right when the Court of Auditors criticizes the government, we say that the Court of Auditors is right, but if it gives the government the right, we say it is not right! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's not true!]] They're in the trap, Mr. Klubobmann Strache and Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. [[Abg. Strache: Who said that?]] That's the Court of Auditors case! [[Abg. Strache: Who would have said that?]] Who said that? - Don't do that! [[Abg. Strache: Yes, you just claimed!]] You have held a meeting with President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser. He was present at our group leaders' meetings and said: Yeah, that's a common path. [[Abg. Strache: He says that exactly § 17!]] And you say here that the Court of Auditors cannot examine and so on. – The Court of Auditors can examine very well! Let's stick to the facts! The agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities sets out four important principles that we have not had so far. [[Abg. Bucher: He's already checking!]] First principle: It must be done at risk. – What does risk avers mean? – That means that any avoidable risk is to be neglected. A completely clear statement! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Only not in Lower Austria!]] Secondly, for the first time, a strategic annual planning in the field of liquidity and debt management – and that has not been done so far. Third important principle: a strict separation of treasury and risk management – there has not been so far. And fourthly, full transparency in all actions taken. – Yes, all of this is nothing? Mr Klubobmann Strache, you have said your proposals – do not constant three! – were not accepted. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's not there at all!]] . We have had a government paper here in the house, as your representatives have rightly said, there is a lot missing. We have accepted that the government template has been changed, that has been written in – in committee we have done so –: no credit shots for the purpose of reporting. – This was a call for opposition and was fully fulfilled by the government. Then you said: But derivative transactions were actually prohibited. – We have also recorded this: no derivative transactions without basic business. [[Abg. Bucher: But that's the minimum, please!]] Then you rightly said that in § 17 there is a can-determination inside: The Minister for Finance and Finance may, with the President of the Court of Auditors, determine everything in detail on the accounting system. You said that “can” is too vague, you want “must”. – We have written “must”. Three important demands, all of us have fulfilled, since we want the ban on speculation. [[Abg. Not everyone! Partially fulfilled! Not everyone!]] Mr Strache, Mr Bucher, if you block it now, however, the development goes beyond Parliament: Vienna decided two weeks ago. They said: We want a ban on speculation in the constitution, and we have decided on it in the country day. Tomorrow it will be decided in Lower Austria. And now we're standing there and saying, Because election time is, we do not get the opposition's consent! You know exactly, this speculation ban will also be decided here, even before the summer – the only question is: simple legal or constitutional? We will strive until the last day. [[Abg. Bookbook: Let's put it on the agenda!]] Mr. Klubobmann Strache, I spoke to your two negotiators today. Until the last minute, we will have every opportunity to reach a constitutional agreement, but, of course, we cannot force you. [[Abg. Bookbooker: You have to put it on the agenda!]] I know you think you can beat political capital out of it in the pre-election campaign. [[Abg. Street: Follow the suggestions, optimize it!]] I can't force you, I can only say that I am in best contact with your negotiators, we have a really good contact, are very constructive, and we don't give up the hope, we want a constitutional law. But, once again, you or the Greens must participate – the BZÖ is unfortunately, Mr Klubobmann Bucher, too little. We really want it. But – once again – if you think you can put the government there in the tight, then I can only say: As a matter of fact, you are sitting in the Court of Auditors case, because the Court of Auditors says: Yes, this is a common path!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10312	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10333	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of my speech, the most pleasing speaker said: He doesn't give up hope! Thank you. The hope is green – this explains the whole process up to here: You will not get a green seal of goodness for calling anything a ban on speculation, which is, in fact, a license to speculate for national leaders in the decisive places! That is the reason for the rejection! You want to choose here – you scatter sand to the eyes of the people – only quite the possibility to speculate in some places, but pretend as if it were different. And that's why there's resistance here. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Do not keep the Liberal Group in mind that it can see something different here by means of negotiations. How many times have you turned around on the stand?- Oh, my God! – Government since the Babenbergers, opinions often change like the underpants, just because it fits you politically – but the opposition must not. That's not how it is! I am really sorry to be constantly taken by government representatives here as a member of the opposition, which applies to every political group, even though we are trying to do so, and I know that in this case the Liberal Group is actually trying to do so. I have to say so, we have enough disputes otherwise, but in this case that's right. The reason we're not going to do that, I just tried to explain to you in a short summary. We want to and will continue to negotiate – we already talk to individual national leaders, the transfer has obviously only failed you – so that we can still get something done here, because we know the real constitution in our country, even if we want to adopt a federal constitution law here, which is only the task of the Federal Constitutional Legislator – that is, of us here. That is why we will also need to talk to the countries – that is not wrong – but then right. Finally, it should come out and be in the box, which you also want to pick on top – and that is actually not playful! I'll explain the difference to you now. You have told my colleague Bucher here that he repeats, as you say, this theatre, something unsuccessful. This is wrong, because the BZÖ is doing something very right here, in my view, because the proposals that would actually have to be negotiated here and then would not have to decide would actually have to come to the agenda, because we are only making such a referral to the Committee, there could be a successful reorganisation of this unfortunate matter – as far as possible, with a large majority as possible – in order to bring it to the plenary and decide here. That would be a normal process. But you are opposed to this reasonable knowledge just because you are already in the election campaign, just because you want to defend your sonic head of state in Lower Austria. Now we come to the root of the matter: We have here the so-called speculation ban with this complicated article-15a formation, which in the end has always brought only disaster and never anything good. But be it, if it were to fit in with content, you could still join. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] They prohibit what no one will do with this article-15a agreement: Loans for re-investment. That's forbidden now. Okay, it's better inside than not – for me. Of course, so far, so good, so far, so irrelevant. [[Abg. Strache: The rest remains possible!]] But where it becomes relevant, there is no ban, where it becomes relevant, the countries must continue to define for themselves what a risk is. This will now be very good in Salzburg, it will be very good in Carinthia, it will be much better in Tyrol, and that has always been good in Upper Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But why should we give the Lower Austrian head of state a license here to speculate, yet with a constitutional title? Ah, now my colleague, Cap, is awake. He asked for a statement, now he's looking! That's right. They are ultimately left in action, if you allow it there, because if each country finally defines what risk is and only the credit is forbidden, the following - pure fiction happens, let's figure it out –: [[Abg. Strache: But in Vienna this is not optimal, Mr Kogler!]] A few billions of housing funds – in reality there are not –, demands on them – there is not – the demands are sold – there is no – billions come in – there are not – there are not, are hidden in societies – there are not – there are no again, there are not – in the City of London – there is not – because a state captain believes he can do it better than the bankers there – there is nothing – and at the end half is gone, 4 billion of 8 billion are gone! With this Constitutional Act, which you want to adopt here, and with the Article 15a agreement, this would be possible further! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's it!]] Pröll himself further defines what risk is and what is not! [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] They want to secure this afterwards, and we won't let that happen. This is actually a speculation bomb, a sugar product – take what you want, it's all, just no ban. And you don't get the seal of goodness for that. But we're going to negotiate ourselves again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] And I'll tell you: Many of your heads of state are more reasonable than you present it here; we can now learn. In this way we will solve it. Finally, just agree and stay out of the way before, because in reality, you've pumped all of this now!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10428	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10449	Mr President. High house! The main problem of this Constitutional Act is that there is “risk-seekers” and the Court of Auditors has repeatedly complained that this is not precisely defined. There has then been a proposal on the free movement of persons to make the whole thing sound. – I would, however, like to say one thing: If you look back in history on the year 2007, then you see, at that time ABS papers, these Asset Backed Securities, which came from the USA to Austria, were rated with the best score that were mouthproof – 2007. In 2008 they were then suddenly nothing more worth it. That is, we have to be very, very careful, because the safety of the mouth is too little. It is a question of prohibiting the countries from installing themselves at all. There is the Federal Finance Agency. That is, the federal government relies on experts. When it comes to managing its deficit and all the other financial policies, this is what the Federal Finance Agency is doing. And this Federal Finance Agency also lends loans to the countries – that was true in the past. The only problem was that the countries did not access or only have very limited access. Why? – Because this loan is accompanied by control possibilities from the Federal Finance Agency. That is, the Federal Finance Agency can see exactly what happens to the money. And that is why the countries have gone the way, themselves have gone to a bank and have taken money from there, often even at a worse interest rate. And later on, one has tried to improve this worse interest rate with so-called interest rate exchange transactions and other risky actions. All this just to avoid this control. Now it is about the fact that we are finally trying to introduce, with this Constitutional Law, the control that the countries seem to need. But the countries don't want that. Mr Cap then says it is not true that the President of the Court of Auditors has agreed to this. - That's not right. You have to quote him exactly. The President of the Court of Auditors has said that it is a minimum consensus and a small step in the right direction. However, he would have wished for something quite different, namely that we should define exactly what the countries are allowed to do, which is risk-affected and where risks can be avoided. That's what the Court of Auditors wanted, but it didn't match. Let us look at how the Court of Auditors will be dealt with at all. Unfortunately, I have to address the last committee. The President of the Court of Auditors has been sitting there, and we have talked about the fact that the Court of Auditors has been removed or at least reduced in respect of the important tasks it has. There has been a huge discussion as to whether the government, which is controlled by the Court of Auditors, will remove the funds from its own control body. That's what we've been discussing. Mr Stumvoll then encouraged us as an opposition, but to ask that the President of the Court of Auditors take the floor there. Someone from the BZÖ then filed this request. What happened? . The government voted in favour of this request and thus prevented the President of the Court of Auditors from taking the floor. That's the way it works. They are quoting the President of the Court of Auditors and saying that he has voted in favour or wrong. That also has a background. The background is that the rod is deliberately placed in the window, according to the motto: If the Court of Auditors continues to look so closely, then there will be some consideration in the support. This is very undemocratic from my point of view. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] Look, we could just talk about an actual speculation ban. However, we must take over the organization over the interests of the countries. Why? – You remember 2008. After the financial crisis, after countless institutions have made crazy speculations and the whole world economy system has been threatened, it has been said: These institutions are supposed to regulate themselves. You have to imagine that! For a whole year in 2008, it was expected that these institutions themselves would impose rules on how they could give up profits and benefits. Of course, that didn't work. This won't work either. It will never happen that the countries themselves are limited. Who believes this? Who believes that the countries come to us and say: Please take the opportunity to fatten our budget? That's not going to happen! The only way is to impose a constitutional law on countries. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] But you're not ready for that. They are not ready because the national chiefs are so strong and rule here. Finally, you want to make a Constitutional Act that acts as a placebo. This is about popular calming, and everyone will continue as before. If you complain that we are not available as opposition for this, I can tell you: We are generally not available for such things. Either you mean it seriously and actually want to move something in this country, or we are not available. But if you want something positive and an actual speculation ban, we are all available as we sit here. I have not heard from the opposition any single word that not all would be behind this speculation ban, if it is also one. That's why: Don't give us any sand in the eyes! Do not try to achieve something with a placebo, but make a proper law! In particular, involve the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, for he knows what he is talking about! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10529	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10552	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Who is it that collects taxes in Austria? Who has the tax authority? – It's the covenant, isn't it? The countries then spend it, speculate with it, and we have no control. Can that be? Then the government doesn't think anything better than that colleague Cap thinks the opposition would be unintelligent. Mr Klubobmann's head thinks we should stop this because of failure. Unintelligent is the government that does not work. The government of the ÖVP and the SPÖ is unsuccessful, which does not finally deal with the subject. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] People want you to create facts that you're putting into practice a real ban on speculation. Mr Auer! You don't. You refuse us. They do this on many levels, and people don't understand. At the residential building scandal, speculation was performed in Lower Austria: There has been €8 billion of capital. What's left? – A minimum of € 650 million, says the Court of Auditors. It is precisely you and the SPÖ who prohibit the President of the Court of Auditors from speaking in committee at my request. Where are we? They of the ÖVP then draw over the President of the Court of Auditors and say: He doesn't know. Do you know each other? - You just speculate the money. We have experienced the same in red in Salzburg: there is also a huge speculation scandal, new elections, an exit for red and black. What are you doing? - You're sitting here grinningly and saying, No, the opposition is blocked. - It's not like that. The government is blocking. This is how it continues in Linz, where the swap scandal has flooded 450 million € of tax money and the money is missing in the back and front of this country. You're not just unsuccessful here. They are now bubbling on the part of the ÖVP in the pre-election campaign also of tax reduction. The SPÖ thinks living has to be cheaper. Where are your specific applications? Where are the implementations? They present to people an X for a U and lie to them. [[President Neugebauer is rowing.]] Mr President, I heard it. They just don't get through. They are, in fact, announcement giants, but implementation dwarfs. They're not doing anything. We were already very far from the ban on speculation. We have also gone very far on the part of the opposition. We agreed that the ban on speculation should be written into the Constitution. We agreed on the ÖBFA guidelines. We have agreed on the regulations of the Minister for Finance. But it was still in detail to regulate certain things so that the heads of state did not set out for themselves what speculation is and what is not. This is exactly what is happening in Lower Austria or Vorarlberg. Then the state government or the country day sets out what speculation is and what is not. Do you really want nothing to change in reality? Do you want a placebo paper? Do you want to regulate a national law, nine times different, which, in fact, does not prevent expensive tax money from being speculated in the future, housing money that people outside would urgently need? Don't you want to stop that? In reality, if such a embarrassment occurs at the country level, it would be necessary to go here, to take away legislation from the countryside and to make proper laws here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I quote from a newspaper article of the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of 26. February: ‘SPÖ Finance Spokesman Kai Jan Krainer believes that at least three to four parties in plenary will agree to the draft law. ‘If some countries do not welcome the new rules, that is not crucial to me.” It seems, however, that it is crucial for SPÖ not to go ahead and implement the law accordingly. We've always said: Point one: Speculation ban in the Constitution. Point two: a uniform budgetary law so that the countries can also be compared so that we know what it really looks like with the debt, what it looks like with the liabilities et cetera. All of this is packed in and is also specified and demanded by the EU. We also called for the President of the Court of Auditors to be involved. We said: If the President of the Court of Auditors says that this is basically a good thing, then we can also agree with it. We've been almost done with the whole thing, and you've finally bombarded all of this. What we do not need is these nine country regulations as a pure placebo. They do not include the communities either, that is to say. Countries cannot bind the municipalities. You haven't discussed that yet. So, what do we need this embarrassment for? - We really don't need him. They have watched the countries speculate the money. Then the countries – in particular Häupl and Pröll – have blocked, and now you're embarrassed. I would expect a government capable of action, a government showing leadership, a government that says: There are zero tolerances when speculating taxpayers. I expect a government to implement it, and it is missing far and wide in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10643	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10665	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen on the audience gallery! We now have a third debate on the ban on speculation and have not taken any further steps. Then you hear Mr. Klubobmann Cap say: This is not a matter of opposition. – If it were not a matter of opposition, we would not have this debate. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Bucher.]] Why vote Don't you agree to refer it back to the committee to negotiate it in a serious and sensible way? From our point of view, it is not about terms – whether this should be risk-related or oral – but at the end of the day only about the content. In the future, speculation will no longer be possible, both at federal, national and municipal level. In the end, that must be the goal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The formulations we are currently making are still possible with speculations with housing funds. That is, the head of the state of Lower Austria can still speculate with his housing funds. [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] I don't think we can be called upon to do so as an opposition. Next: It is possible, for example, at any time to establish state companies, so-called financing agencies. This goes down to the municipal level, where the funding is then outsourced. They can then speculate at the end of the coin. It's a totally toothless tiger that should be decided here. Of course, there has been the argument that the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors has taken a very positive view of this. Yes, the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, in particular, assesses the draft § 16. § 16 includes the uniform accounting of federal, state and local authorities. That would be an instrument for continuous control. As a result, individual local authorities could no longer hide debts, and the Court of Auditors could really control it in accordance with its mandate. That is what the President of the Court of Auditors wants. He said at the end of the negotiations that he could also live with § 17 because he would have the opportunity to point out abuses with the instrument of § 16 – with the single accounting system. But that's too little for us. We want speculation no longer possible, and therefore we reject § 17. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, last time in the same debate, I said that we are ready to vote in favour of this § 16. We will also make a request on this subject. Then we'll see. That will be the sample of nails for the government, whether it really takes it seriously, whether it really can create a uniform accounting system and thus the requirement for the Court of Auditors to be able to control it. § 17 is unfortunately included in the current templates. The Court of Auditors' control is limited, and these outsourced legal entities can continue to speculate. That's the cracking point for us. As long as this is not repaired or in a corresponding design, we cannot accept it. That is why: back to committee, proper proposals to that effect! Then, of course, we are also there as opposition. That we are very likely to be interested in a solution proves that our clubman has sent a letter to Klubobmann Cap as well as to Klubobmann Kopf. We have made the effort to make a proposal. It is once a base on which you can build and talk about. But unfortunately, the counter-proposals are not yet so necessary that I say: It is possible that we agree. Finally, once again: Please agree to § 16! § 16 would be the first step towards a uniform accounting system. Then, too, speculation would not be as easy as possible, or it would finally be possible for the Court of Auditors to recognize the true debt that lies in our country. I believe that then no community and no country can hide any more debts, and the Court of Auditors would finally have an instrument to control. That would really be a step in the right direction. Therefore, support our request!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10716	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10738	Mr President. It must be assumed that a speculation ban is, of course, something that everyone here wants in the room. That's what I'm going to assume. However, we of the Greens want to have a system that is waterproof, verifiable and controllable. § 17 of the Financial Constitution is now to introduce a new passage, which is based on a ban on speculation, on a risky financial performance, and which explicitly calls some transactions. However, it must be said at this point that a transaction in this section 17 is not included, namely the sale of land assets, the sale of federal assets. Of course, it cannot be said in this law that disposals of state or federal assets are no longer allowed to take place. However, it must be fully clarified how to proceed in terms of charges when it comes to disposals of state or federal assets. I miss a clear regulation. In other words: As long as these provisions do not exist, this section 17 will remain dizzy, and as long as the speculation à la Niederösterreich with the housing funds will be possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! That's what we want to rule out. [[Call at the ÖVP:But the Greens have agreed!]] Talk to your Mr. Landes Captain and tell him that we want a waterproof solution and no solution that is soaky like an Emmental cheese! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Second point: This section 17 provides for a uniform federal regime. But with the Article 15a agreement, a federal solution will be adopted precisely, because the interpretation of what is to be risk-affected will be left to the federal states. In some countries we have already seen what is contained in the implementing laws on this Article-15a agreement. - Nothing! If Mr Stumpfully wants to tell me that it is clear what risk there is, I must say: unfortunately no. What Is Risk Avers? – It would even be a risky process if I took €10,000, went to a bank and put it at the base rate. This is a speculative process. You want to tell me all that I'm serious, that it's completely clear what riskavers are? - No! That is why we have always said: We want to include in the financial constitution the principles of risk-taking, and not leave the sovereignty of interpretation to the federal states. Another aspect concerns control, § 16 of the Financial Constitution. This financial constitution dates back to 1948, i.e. 65 years old. With this financial constitution we must, I believe, be in the 21st century. ==References== There is an authorisation for the Minister of Finance to discuss, together with the Court of Auditors, the form and breakdown of proposals and accounts. But we need to talk about the content, not form and structure. Because if we have no means of control, then every ban on speculation, which is anchored in § 17 or elsewhere, is completely useless. Yes, Mr President, it is not enough to report the transactions to the Court of Auditors or to the Austrian Coordination Committee. What does that bring me? - That doesn't give me anything. I need to know how the financial transactions behind them have developed in their assets. It is only this that enables me to control, and I need a modern accounting system to do so. We have not yet achieved this kind of accounting. In § 16 again, the way was to say: We are going to transfer this back to an Article 15a agreement and we are going to leave the sovereignty of interpretation, such as a budgetary law, a dopian household, back to the countries and communities, although we have a new budgetary right at the federal level, which has entered into force this year, where we could take measures. But we don't. Why don't we do that? - Because we don't have a trust relationship between the federal government and countries. There is a crisis of confidence between the federal government and countries. We know this from the financial balance. As long as we do not come to a solution on federalism – and this is also an eminent federalism issue – in which we say goodbye to old patterns of thought and build a new relationship of trust, new federalism, we will also not come to any meaningful and waterproof regulation of the speculation ban. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10791	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10813	Ladies and gentlemen! Politics has not learned anything from the speculation scandals of a rocking head of state and black councils in Salzburg, but also from the speculation scandal of a Mr. Pröll around the hypo in Lower Austria. This can be seen again today. This house, the federal legislation should once again be the useful idiot, the beating hub for the countries that push us into the shoes, that we do not want to ban speculation. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] But you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, are deliberately blocking a ban on speculation for months. They even block the negotiations on this, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Cap, how honest you feel about your Sunday speeches here, we will notice if we now decide whether or not to put the ban on speculation on the agenda. You'll say again: It won't be possible. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why?]] For fear of the heads of state and the prölls of this earth, you would rather save yourself from the election over the next few months and can also be said by the national leaders that the federal legislation does not do anything, rather that we negotiate and decide on this long-needed speculation ban in Austria here at the parliamentary level at the democratic level. All the opposition speakers, starting with our clubman Josef Bucher, have today once again - as can be read in the Minutes - signaled that we agree with this speculation ban, if it is a ban, which also deserves its name, of course. It is the content of our demand, our programmatics, that in Austria we introduce a barge to speculation with taxpayers' money. It is not a question of sacrificing the valuable tax money of the Austrians, the employees, the economic operators in that country on the altar of international speculation. You, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, have learned nothing from these scandals from the federal state, from which many visitors are here today, from Styria. Where is the consequence of the speculation scandal in shoots, where millions of euros have been lost to municipal budgets? Where is the consequence of the speculation scandal in Fohnsdorf, a nearby community? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Hartberg!]] Where is the consequence – thank you, colleague Kogler – from the speculation scandal of a black community like Hartberg? You don't want to do that. You want your mayors, who are moving in your reign, to continue to carry out their accusations, which are insidious and nationally harmful. To date, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, you cannot explain to us how high the economic damage of these speculations has been since 2008. If we only produce Salzburg and Lower Austria – without counting all other speculation scandals of national undertakings, of community-owned undertakings which have been excluded from public control, which still sleep under the spell, then the amount of damage goes to billions. On the other hand, you try to get back money through tax increases, through charge and tax increases. Mr President, you have said that the opposition is in the case of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is over things. As an objective, good and valuable instrument of this National Council, the Court of Auditors clearly identified the importance of a ban on speculation. The Court of Auditors is here in good company with the opposition, because, as we clearly say, only a ban on speculation, which can also develop its effectiveness, is a ban on speculation with which we become the master of the past. What you want here is a placebo solution that you have presented to the opposition, in order not to catch up with your country leaders. What kind of self-understanding is that? How do you feel about red and black that you are handing down the puppets of national leaders here? Are you still part of the federal legislation or are you in hostages of national leaders who, beginning with Vorarlberg's head of state, align the federal legislation on every occasion that it does not do anything anyway? Let us show the heads of state today that we are doing something! Let us set in motion the mechanism of parliamentary negotiation of the long-needed ban on speculation! Let us be the real lawyers of taxpayers and not just give it in Sunday's speeches to prevent anything that could save tax money in this country! [[Call the ÖVP: Madness!]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, Whose lawyers are you? Are you the lawyers of the speculators? Are you the lawyers of the co-cashing banks? Or are you the lawyers of taxpayers who have paid enough for such painting? We will not tire of addressing this ban on speculation in the National Council in the next few months.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10881	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall proceed to the vote. I would ask those Members who want to take account of the objections, i.e. those who vote in favour of the inclusion of Annexes 2131 of the Supplements until 2187 as Agenda items 1 to 5, to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. This leaves the agenda for today's sitting in writing. [[13:05:56]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e10920	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11172	The debate on points 2 and 3, 4 to 6, 9 and 10, 12 to 14, 16 to 19 and 21 to 23 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11196	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7.5 “Vienna hours” has been agreed. In accordance with the provisional The following speaking times are available for 7.5 ‘Vienna hours’ within a ‘Vienna hour’: SPÖ and ÖVP per 105 minutes, FPÖ 94 minutes, Green 83 minutes, BZÖ 71 minutes and STRONACH 60 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[13:07:19]] 1. Point Report of the Teaching Committee on the Austrian National Education Report 2012, presented by the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture (III-382/2283 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11241	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Mayer. If desired, 6 minutes of speaking time will be set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11269	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to begin by congratulating the second National Education Report, which is not only informative and self-critical, but also visionary, because, as I believe, it is also very broad. It is also the educational speakers of all political groups who have been involved in the preparation of topics – which we want to deal with here. I mean, the first part of this National Education Report is extremely informative. It is a reference work for all those concerned with education policy only on the verge of it, especially when it has to contend with discussions relating to education policy. The report is an indispensable reference work with details on everything concerning the educational landscape in our country. The report is critical, indeed self-critical, as far as the analysis is concerned in the second part, where the important issues we have worked out together in scientific discussions are presented. In my view, this report is also a guarantee that there will no longer be a standstill in education policy in the future, because this report is too much on the move, calling for too much action to be taken on the ground. And finally, The report is visionary. I mean, visionary in the sense that we all started from the vision – I keep remembering it again and again during educational discussions and everyone starts their word messages with it – that our common goal is that if possible no child should stay on the track. As far as possible, we want to promote all children in such a way that they can actually benefit from their individual gifts in life. Individual support is highlighted in this second part of the education report and is also our guiding programme. All the measures we want to put together here – and I refer to everything we have already taken in the past five or six years – are steps in this direction. We have passed from the vision to the programme and have now taken concrete action in the form of these legislative initiatives. Since you are very light and very I would like to make a few important points on this path to a modern, open school, which opens up and reminds all children of their opportunities: First, the smaller classes. You know the discussion about the maximum number of school students that we have decided together. Secondly, targeted and improved language promotion, starting in the kindergarten. For this purpose, the countries will be provided with money to carry out their early-educated tasks. It is not only a matter of establishing the language level and identifying the deficits, but also of taking action. The deficits that we know now must ask ourselves: What can we do? The corresponding financial resources have been made available here. Thirdly, The free repetition of educational diplomas, which was also widely discussed here. This is, as I believe, a great social policy achievement, which cannot be estimated to be sufficiently high enough in terms of education. Fourth: Teaching with Matura – a part of our education system that is no longer to be considered a few years after its introduction. Fifth, the education standards for the fourth and eighth levels. I know they are only decided and still in development, but what we want in this field of competence-oriented teaching already in primary school, in folk school, is remarkable. As you know, we want the children to be able to read, write and calculate accordingly when they leave the public school as well as be able to speak freely. To this end, it is important to work specifically towards competence-oriented teaching. This can be best tested and questioned with the educational standards – in the fourth and eighth levels. Sixthly, the form of the modular upper level. We have not yet reached a final picture of how we can imagine an upper level, but very important steps have been taken in this course system. These show how, in the upper level, individual educational sections, modules can be completed, and how they can be further developed. This concerns particularly talented children who can then make cross-border modules. However, the system also provides for re-help, support for the weaker at school itself. – You know what it is all about, we have decided together here. This goes until the New Matura, which has now been throughout the whole federal territory in the trial phase, which we have decided together, because we also want to ensure competences here. We want to make sure that students who have completed the mature exam actually have a guarantee for their skills and know: I'm ready for the next step, whatever I want to do in my career career – whether that's studying, enter the profession, whatever – I know, I'm equipped with the corresponding skills and it's feasible. The New Secondary School is not yet the common school. It is, however, a very important step towards where we want to go, namely that movement comes into secondary level 1. Even the Tyrolean head of state is awake and says: We need to take measures. The Greens in Tyrol are now trying and saying: But we have to work at a proper common school towards the whole school. I think that when the Greens in Tyrol deal with a similar commitment to the matter as they do in the National Council, they will also be able to implement it accordingly in Tyrol. However, the corresponding concepts do not necessarily lead to that being done. Another important point is the expansion of all day care. A new Article 15a agreement is currently in progress. With all nine federal states, we have once again doubled the funds – i.e. the four times €80 million – so that the countries can actually be put in place – and I also say that there is no more excuses – that they can actually be expanded all day long. This is a very important and crucial challenge. Here, too, the Federation will introduce and implement measures. Nevertheless, we all know that the educational vapour is moving slowly, i.e. the effects of the measures we are all taking are not yet measurable tomorrow. I am always saying that it will probably take five to six years to prove what we are doing here on the basis of international standards and testing. This is not like buying up newer and faster machines that work better, and then you immediately see that the output is also a correspondingly higher and better. Everyone dealing with education policy knows we need this time. But the measures that we have put together are the right ones. Finally, I would like to mention an important milestone, which we will decide at one of the next meetings, namely the new educational training. In addition to the two ministers, I should like to thank Mr Cortolezis-Schlager for the really good cooperation in this important area. We all know: The quality of a school stands and falls with the teachers we have there. We need the best-trained teaching staff in the individual schools. That is why this measure, which we are setting up here, which we are bringing together, has been excellently successful in terms of our possibilities and external circumstances. We will have the opportunity to talk about it very intensively later. Mrs Minister, I would like you to be very strong and very happy for the future and congratulate you on your work so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11364	The next speaker was Mrs Marek. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11385	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Mayer and a fundamental comment on the report itself: It is important to look at how meaningful the report is for those who are actually involved in the field of education. You might as well feel that scientists have written here for scientists. The report is also very fragmented, and this has led to a very isolated view. Especially when a report costs around € 1 million, it should be considered that a next report really can be used in the field of education. Mr. Mayer, you said that the education speakers were fully involved and involved here. It's not that right. Education speakers were informed about the contents and structures in the second half of last year. [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: It was asked for proposals!]] But it was. [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: What does Mr Amon say about this?]] My information is different. My predecessor Werner Amon has clearly confirmed this to me. I now come to the content, ladies and gentlemen, and above all to the challenges arising from the data and information contained in the educational report. This is an essential concern for me. The central challenge is reading skills. There are real construction sites here, and I think you have to say it like this: Unfortunately, the „Stabsstelle Read“ was introduced by the Federal Minister Gehrer in order to coordinate exactly the measures in the field of reading promotion, which has simply been abolished quite exactly three years ago. We clearly see in the educational report that we need real action, especially in the field of reading skills. We see a terrifying picture. We are maximum reading achievements in the middle field. We have a lot of risk students. Something has to be done here, because reading, ladies and gentlemen, is the central basic competence on which everything builds up. If someone can't read, he can't solve math tasks and many others, and he's facing bigger challenges. Reading needs to be taught in the primary school as a central competence. The data – a comparison of BIFIE with 13 other EU countries – show that we are already in the 10 years of final light, as we see in the analysis of the PIRLS results. But just when it comes to reading, ladies and gentlemen, it also needs the parents. The parents are particularly required here. The education report also shows quite clearly: Where home is not read, where children are not read at home, there are special shortcomings. Here more offer is needed than before. What is available so far is clearly too little. Ladies and gentlemen, in education, parents are generally needed. In the sense of a genuine educational partnership between the respective educational institution and the parents' home, the parents must be brought into the boat and put into duty. I think you have to say that, too. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, an essential issue in the report is equal opportunities. This is also a central concern for us. However, for us equal opportunities clearly does not mean the same thing for every child, but the best individually. I don't think you can stress that often enough. It is just too little to consistently demand the unity school again and again. Here, too, the comparison with total school countries makes sure, ladies and gentlemen. When we look at Italy or England alone – both with total school systems – children between the ages of 10 and 14 – in exactly this period – lose absolutely and truly clearly in international comparison with their achievements. At this point I would like to stress very clearly, ladies and gentlemen: We from the ÖVP make a clear commitment to a differentiated school system – which, of course, we need to develop further – as a central base on which we continue to build. Only to crush the proven high school and introduce the one-school for all is too little and does not create a right of opportunity, but on the contrary – and this is also seen in countries that have an overall school system. [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: Gymnasium for everyone, as your predecessor has said!]] There is a need for action at different levels for real equal opportunities. The expansion of the range of school forms throughout the day is a point. But it cannot be said here: only the restricted, mandatory, non-flexible form is possible, but it must be decided at the location itself, as in the past, in a proven form, as only there can be known what the central challenges for children and parents are. The site decides autonomously, with equal partners. And the teachers are of course equal partners. Time and again to put the rod in the window and claim that teachers block everything, so it is not possible, because in reality there is no single case, ladies and gentlemen, where teachers would have prevented restricted forms. [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: The Teacher Union, not the Teachers! The black teachers' union!]] We're talking about school autonomy, colleague Mayer! – And there the location is crucial, just as of course teachers and parents. We have to look at the transitions: from kindergarten to folk school, then from folk school to high school 1. The issue is that there is an educational recommendation on the basis of a real performance assessment, so that children can get up to the best school. So: Where is the child due to real benefits? I absolutely support the question of a minimum education, with full permeability for the further educational and professional course, i.e. the educational and professional careers. That's where we have to put, ladies and gentlemen. To further develop the folk school is a central challenge, and I am absolutely with my previous speaker: That is where we have to start, because there is a question of imparting basic knowledge on which everything builds up further. It is about mastering the language of teaching, and there is also the following: Only those who can really follow the teaching language should come to the regular school. We are in favour of the best possible promotion to ensure that all children are provided with the best opportunities in the education system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11488	Mr. Dr. Rosary to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11509	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Well: An education system can be based on the value of equality or on that of freedom. – We liberals believe that a system of education in the value of freedom is better oriented than that of equality – a equality which is in particular required by social democracy in the education system. And I have to say that in recent times I have had a huge distrust of whether it will be so sensible when socialists generally do something. This is a party whose hanging signs are so to speak in Europe, such as a Mr Hannes Swoboda – together with Mrs Ulrike Lunacek – demand that parties who do not respect the values of the EU be fined. This is not about violations of law – for example, you drive too fast and you get a penalty – but about “value violations”. [[Abg. Grasl duration: Inconceivable!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: The National Education Report is the topic at the moment!]] Mr Walser, I have enough time to speak so that I can explain everything to you. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: I'm glad!]] Freedom of expression and freedom are values that need to be taught in a proper education system – and not dictatorship, if there is already a threat of loss of office in the event of votes against. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We do not need the demise of the citizens, the removal of democratic values, the exercise of democracy, the so-called Prime Time voting on the question of who dances better, sings or makes acrobatics. I have heard from previous speakers, such as Mrs Korun, in today's debate, the FPÖ is in front of the ruins of the party – and I can only say: If you go through life with such scams and then you are still so privileged that you could make a good education in an Austrian school in Turkey, then we are confident that the back wind that the greens have will not last for long in such actions. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: How was your result in Lower Austria? Less how much percent?]] On the question of education today also Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer said one thing or another and raised the question of what it was all about that teaching that the teaching profession that the skilled worker arrived so badly in public opinion in the public discussion. Mrs Federal Minister Schmied, give your group and government colleagues the answer, because you are always just talking about meeting the quotas towards Matura, towards study, in order to have a happy and fulfilled life. She herself, the Minister of Education, is the one who miscredits the teaching. But perhaps the Minister Hundstorfer just didn't listen to that. Mrs Marek has previously made a confession by the Austrian People's Party to the differentiated school system. Yes, I hear this over and over again, and I hear it from your Federal Party owner, and of course I hear it with some satisfaction, because it is the correct answer to the problems we have. However, it is really like this: Once the country election has been beat and the ÖVP wants to go to a coalition with the Greens in Tyrol, all of this is no longer the case, but then the general school is to be introduced in the federal state of Tyrol at once. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] – Please don’t let my colleague Walser get a heart attack! Such government participations will, at least, be the sample of nails for the ÖVP on this issue. This educational report, a truly comprehensive number, contains figures and facts, and since this report has been presented by a Social Democratic Minister and has been accepted by the Social Democracy as a whole, it is your figures that you have presented here, and I will therefore always rely on your figures. In any case: We realize that this education system is a expensive one – and that all in the classroom is unfortunately little. A difference, for example, with regard to the per capita numbers: What is going on in the AHS sub-level is that 7 €327 is spent per student; in the primary school it is €9 150; in the future, it is also included in the New Secondary School. – That means it gets more expensive, but is less effective. It looks as if in the new system weaknesses are promoted and gifts remain on the track. And we really don't need that in Austria. As Mr Katzian spoke at the beginning of his speech, then the foreigners of the FPÖ and so on, I can only say: There is no need to speak of ‘foreigners’, because you now always call it ‘non-German everyday language’. So let us leave the heading “foreigners” and say only “non-German everyday language”. Perhaps this is “less despicable ” in your opinion, more gentle, whatever; in any case, it is not about headlines, but about facts. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: So sensitive today?]] And the fact is: In schools in Vienna, we have 53 percent of children with non-German everyday languages; in Upper Austria 47 percent of children with non-German everyday languages; in Salzburg 44 percent, in cities between 10,000 and 50,000 people, we have a third of children with non-German everyday languages in the public school. I hope everyone understands what that means. And again: It's your numbers. And these are the problems you have. We liberals say quite clearly – the subject of reading weakness has already been addressed here –: It is a very massive problem, and I would not say on the basis of this numbering work that Austria is in the middle of the field, because we in Austria are very far behind as reading alone is concerned. That's what we can do with Mexico. By the way: Mexico, also an overall schooling country, but it is more likely to be silent. In any case, Brazil and Mexico are not the models. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Azerbaijan!]] Let's look at the age pyramid: Teachers in service with over 60 years of age almost none. And after all the retirements over the next few years, you have planned a new training model which has been sent to Parliament. In any case, we know that in the years 2016 to 2019 thousands of teachers will go to pension. And what are you doing about it? – You extend the training time! That is, you go to seeing eyes to an blatant lack of teachers – and do nothing about it! Furthermore: As far as a new teacher service right is concerned, nothing has yet gone on. Negotiations on a new teacher’s right to service are even to be made a “chapter”. Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied, I believe that it is probably easier in your field of education, art and culture to award prices in the field of culture, to distribute subsidies, to travel to international events of cultural artists and to be there at the award ceremony – and that it is certainly much harder to negotiate with trade unionists and to achieve good negotiating results. Mrs Minister, do you not also think about what it is that it is actually doing working groups to work out papers, to present these papers to the Stakeholder Conferences, to recompress the working papers and to hand them over to a new working group? – The decisions are missing! Especially a new teacher service right would be extremely important so that in the future young people will know what will happen to them if they take up this profession. Otherwise, the lack of teachers will become even more blatant. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Very interesting data from the educational report: As for the topic of training, it is true that in the last 18 months, 97 percent of teachers have been training, but only one day; in the course of one day, Austria is a top-ranking leader, so to speak. However, as soon as it is a matter of multi-day training or compulsory training, the number will then be reduced at once. What are the reasons for asking the teachers why they are not doing training? There are no cost problems, conflicts in terms of timetables or other – because our teachers are below the OECD average; the OECD average for training is 42 percent: 65 percent of teachers in Austria say that no appropriate training is offered. - That's a drama! Yes, there are teachers willing to learn, but they say: The training topics simply do not fit. Now to the class sizes and what to read from your report in detail: the big differences between a primary school or a new middle school, which on average have under 20 children in the class – or an AHS sub-level with more than 25 children on average. There is no medium-righteousness for these levels, because it is not wanted, and what is not wanted is not taught financially either. Interestingly, however, the satisfaction of the students with the education system is relatively high. There are hardly any students who say that they are not satisfied with the education system. Also interesting is the question of crime and aggression between children, but also against teachers; of course, aggression by teachers also includes children in the report. These are very interesting numbers: 78 percent of teachers say that there is no training offer to deal with aggression at school in terms of education and training. – These are the true themes! For almost decades, the education system has had a high and good acceptance in the population – and still has it. I am only saying this because social democracy is always said what was bad among former governments in school. Education had the best acceptance in the population in 2003. You know who put the government at that time. [[Abg. May. Rudas: Minister Gehrer was also one of the most popular ministers of education!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: He was good! He was really good!]] And afterwards, with BZÖ and ÖVP in the government or social democracy and ÖVP, there have been worse reviews, but still in a degree that can be described as very narrow. Overall, the population agrees with what our education system is currently producing. This is also to be read in your National Education Report, Mrs Minister. It is gratifying that girls, young women, when they choose a course of education – no matter what level – have a very high chance of success. That is, women are extremely successful when they take a course of education to complete it. Finally, on the problem of risk groups: In mathematics and natural sciences, thanks to the international comparison, God looks better. As far as reading is concerned, the situation in Austria is almost dramatic. That means there's got to be a folk school offensive. The question of better assessment and opportunities for folk schools, as I believe, is quite in the interest of all parties. And in folk school, the foundation stone is laid for everything. It will therefore be necessary for everyone to learn to read in the public school and for books to be handled there; of course, this is also a question of parental education, because no child will read a book anymore when a parent sits in the body and with a beer can in his hand in front of the TV and then says to the child: Go, read a book! – If such a “model” is given, then nothing will be useful. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Each educational offensive must therefore definitely also be associated with a parent education offensive. We of the FPÖ believe that the education system in Austria is in itself a very good thing – despite all attempts to disassemble it and sacrifice it to the principle of equality instead of giving priority to the principle of freedom and differentiation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11750	The next speaker was Mr Walser. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11771	Mrs. Minister! High house! So that we know what we're talking about today: These are these two great volumes. [[The speaker keeps the National Education Report up to date.]] Congratulations, Mrs. Minister! Congratulations to the authors of these volumes, because there is really very, very much in there. I was invited to a panel discussion at the Institute of Higher Studies two weeks ago, and this was exactly about these two volumes. Unfortunately, other colleagues were not present in this discussion, because it would have been interesting for you, including what scientists have said about the implementation of what is in the National Education Report. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: When was the date?]] Little surprising – but shockingly, I would almost say – Mrs Marek: The similarities between you and the FPÖ in education policy issues have increased since you took over the function of the ÖVP Education Spokesman. What I heard about you today, Mrs Marek, was ÖVP-Uralt-Sprech, for example, when you spoke of ‘in potting school’. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marek.]] I have actually believed that the ÖVP has left this educational style in the meantime. In terms of content, you have argued that if you, Mrs Marek, talk about it – we are used to it at FPÖ – as if anyone in this country wanted to introduce an overall school in which students are not admitted or in which they are not differentiated. You know the opposite is the case. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Colleague Walser wants a school for each child! The one-child school!]] Yes, we want an overall school, and for that there is actually a broad majority in this House; we already have a parliamentary majority in this House for a modern school reform. The arguments you always want to compare with! The FPÖ now compares Austria with Azerbaijan and Mexico and argues against a common school. Mr Rosenkranz, why do you not actually make comparisons with South Tyrol? This is much closer, and perhaps the example of South Tyrol is the one that has moved Mr. Platter – with green support – to write into the government programme: Yes, we want a modern common school for all children, a school in which no child is left behind, a school that, admittedly, is very similar to what we imagine under the Green School. That is the right way, and there we will support the ÖVP, where it is ready to take this path with us. And, Mrs Marek, the ÖVP is ready to do so in more and more places. I can show you a full-page ad from the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten”. [[The speaker keeps an ad from the Vorarlberg Chamber of Commerce with the slogan “Good News: The Education debate is on the rise!”]] Mr Haubner has already talked about the challenges in Europe this morning at Austria's economic location. The Vorarlberg Chamber of Commerce has answers to educational questions and it propagnates them in full-page advertisements – whether the background is random green, I don't know, it's green anyway – and now I'm reading to you what the Vorarlberg Chamber of Commerce demands. The main demands – these are three –: common school of the 10- to 14-year-olds; comprehensive expansion of full-day offers with restricted education; The abolition of the explosive decision and the strengthening of school autonomy. I can only say that I support the Vorarlberg Chamber of Commerce. These are similar demands as we have in the Green School programme, which may happen to be green, but I am amazed that the Chamber of Commerce – Mr. Colleague – I can give them to you afterwards, if you do not believe it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] I notice how you marvel at it. They even made similar demands years ago. In recent times, it has become a bit quieter, but if you are dealing with what happens in Vorarlberg, in Tirol – well noticed: in your party, in the ÖVP – then there may be a back of you in the right direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How necessary this is, indeed, is shown by the National Education Report, and I am allowed to show a few figures showing how unfair the education system is in Austria, how strong there is in Austria those who already have – the children from well-off households, from education households – and how much the others are being disadvantaged. In ÖVP speech I would say that's the Matthew's principle: The rich are given, the poor are taken. In the cities of Austria, the ratio is 1:1, which leads to the visit from AHS sub-level to primary school. In the country the ratio is 1:3. And that's where I'm referring to extremes: Kärnten, Hermagor District, 0.8 percent AHS-Quote – Vienna, on the other hand, 94.2 percent. - That's discrimination. Has the ÖVP agreed that rural areas should be given some support? Can you continue to live by the fact that we still have such a disadvantage on the part of children in rural areas? – I think this is unfair! Join us! We have a broad majority in this House, and the National Education Report says exactly that and quotes international studies: For example, Ludger Wößmann is quoted as saying that there is no evidence that an early selection has a positive effect on the average level of performance. Time is not enough, I can't read other examples to you now, but just tell you: There are a number of indices, facts and studies, such as the most recent “hattie study” of a New Zealand researcher, which I may mention. We must finally implement this basic school reform in Austria. We must end the disadvantage of children from remote layers. Perhaps you will support us if we do not agree on the issue of ten to 14 years old, at least in relation to primary school, because we have similar problems in primary school. We had an expert hearing here in the House because of our initiative, which was gratefully taken over by the government parties. All experts have supported our position, including those of SPÖ and ÖVP have pointed out that we need a more flexible school entry phase: We must allow children to enter this system gently, and we must help those children who are already disadvantaged in this system. We therefore allow ourselves to present today again a motion for a resolution by Mrs Walser, friends and friends on ‘Integrative Management of Primary Level 1 – Flexible School Entry Phase’, and I hope that, like the Committee, we will also receive support here. Remember, for example, how different the practice of preschooling is, depending on the region alone! In Salzburg, 20 percent of the six-year-olds come to preschool. In Burgenland it's just two percent. How can we explain these differences? We cannot explain the facts, we can only explain them with the different policies in the individual federal states, and we must finally get away from them! We need to strengthen the folk school. We need at least one-and-a-half to two teachers in the first two years of this basic phase. In other words, we need at least half an hour of two teachers, and at least two teachers at all, so that we can demand the strong and promote the weaker in order to enable teachers to give children what they need in school. Finally, I should like to remind the Chamber of Commerce of Vorarlberg and, as colleagues Haubner will be particularly pleased, of the Chamber of Commerce at all. She had a very successful slogan: “It’s good for the economy, we’re all good.” I'd change that and say, “The school is good, the economy is fine.” – Maybe this will help you to support green demands! Okay? - Yeah, he's nodding. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11870	Mr Walser, you have announced a motion for a resolution, but you have not tabled it. Will you bring him in, or will one of your colleagues do that? – Please read it before!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11896	The request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11922	Mr Walser, you must read the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11951	Thank you. I am pleased with the freedom of expression in this regard. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e11996	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12125	Next speaker: Mrs Ursula Haubner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12149	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Every child has the right – regardless of its social origin, its parents or its social environment – to be required as much as possible because of its talents and abilities in our school or education system. And those who have weaknesses are to be supported or promoted so that their weaknesses can be eliminated. This right is granted to all children in Austria, and this, of course, requires a modern and differentiated teaching. I think we should deal with the nature of teaching much more in terms of content than with this ideological dispute about whether or not the school portal “Joint School” is outside. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I think that must be the decisive way! This discussion also reminds me a little bit of those in family policy a few years ago, in which it was about to pursue on the one hand a family policy according to the motto “Back to Herd!” and on the other hand a progressive family policy. – I mean, we shouldn't make this mistake again at school! I think there are many good examples of a common school of the six to 14-year-olds. And it is important that there are many differentiated offers. And there are indeed in Austria in the vocational education system God thank you very much for many offers, but also in the field of AHS, the various upper levels and so on. Good education and training is a profit for each individual. There is then a prospect of a high-quality job, and a good training is the basis for being able to do so in the future. Life has social security, sickness and old age. With good education and training, one is a valuable member in the field of social living together, and in total our country benefits only from well-trained young people who are competent and creative. This National Education Report, which is available to us, shows with many facts and data very well the situation, many topics and areas are supported in this way. The report shows both strengths and weaknesses in the education system and appropriate measures. I would say, Mr Mayer, that I do not think the report is visionary, but, in my view, it simply corresponds to reality. It contains the facts and data and the measures to be taken. For me, visionary would be if all of this were still very far away. But I do not think we have so much time to implement the necessary reforms accordingly. [[Abg. Mayer: I meant that the report should show where the way is going!]] There I am with you when you say that it is to be shown where the way is going. “Visionary” for me, on the other hand, is a little too far away! However, this report must not conceal the fact that there are still many focal points and construction sites. We put a lot of tax money in our education system. This would in principle be correct and good, because any financial investment in education is a good investment in the future. However, many of these taxpayers are sluggish in a very multi-track and double-rail system, and the output is ultimately very mediocre for young people. Almost 80 percent of the staff costs continue to be incurred by the educators. It's been mentioned a few times today: The most frightening thing for me remains the lack of basic skills of our children and young people, for example in the field of reading. In the fourth school level, each sixth student or each sixth student must be considered a risk student, 28 percent of 15 to 16-year-olds cannot read meaningfully. You don't understand the simplest of instructions, the vocabulary is getting smaller. We have heard this over and over again in many discussions with experts. We have been reminded of this over and over again, and it has always been found that the basic skills in reading, writing and computing are even more than flawed. This is a worrying development, and this worrying development must be stopped as soon as possible. Mrs. Federal Minister, we all agreed here that we should repair by saying: We want every young person in Austria to have a compulsory school degree and that it can now be reclaimed free of charge. – This is right and good, because otherwise the social assistance recipients of the future will be created. It is also important, however, that we do something preventively, and that we do something preventively in good time. Therefore, on the part of the BZÖ, we demand that, with the ninth school level, a proven education degree – as it always means, whether intermediate maturity or labour market maturity – is given. The time until the ninth level is not to be lost and wait until compulsory schooling is completed, but this last year is to be a very crucial year with a proven education degree. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is especially true of those who go into the teaching. Much has already been said about qualified and attractive teaching, and we have decided together to launch the model projects of the Polytechnic School now. This is a first step, but that is certainly far too little. As far as the lack of basic skills is concerned, of course, there is also, as I would like to stress, the lack of knowledge and the lack of skills in the field of German teaching. The National Education Report shows in the “Language Funding” chapter that the number of multilingual pupils has increased blatantly over the last ten years, from 111 000 to 207,000. That means: Here we need action. Of course, linguistic diversity is an enrichment for a country, not a question. On the other hand, there is also a problem if children and young people do not understand the German language in teaching and then do not come along. That is why it is important not only to strengthen early language promotion in kindergartens – here a lot has already happened – but to realize that language promotion is also worthy of improvement in school itself, in primary school, in primary school, as well as in primary school. The report clearly criticises the fact that, for example, it is impossible for funding to be negotiated every two years in terms of what resources are available for language support. It really can't be that the individual ministries are discussing this with each other for the sake of lust and mood! If there is great commitment, there is more money, and otherwise there is just less money. I believe that it cannot be left exclusively to schools, which priorities they place in the promotion of language, but it needs an overall language promotion concept, regardless of which region it is concerned. In rural regions, this will be different from in the so-called agglomerations. I remember, Mrs. Federal Minister: You have already promised such a language promotion concept for the longer term, but you have never presented us with such a concept. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I could bring many examples from this National Education Report. I would like to say here: Some, Mrs Bundesminister, are already heading in the right direction, such as education standards, day care offers, all day school, modular upper level. Much is half-hearted and little courageous, for me the New Middle School, but also the teacher's education, because the kindergarten teachers were left outside especially when they were educated and not included in this overall training. It's simply missing essential, Mrs. Federal Minister. For us, for example, the reform of teacher service law, including salary reform, as well as reforms in the areas of federal and country responsibilities, administration and bureaucracy, are essential. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If it fails – and I doubt that it will succeed in this legislative period – to eliminate these large chunks, then a lot of money will continue to flow into a system that is no longer modern and will be missing where it is needed, in classrooms, in the young people, in their chance-oriented training. The money will be missing in the area of space equipment, in modern jobs, even in the discharge of parents who now have to pay a lot of money for remedial education, which is not covered in school. But there will also be a lack of money for motivated, well-trained teachers who can perform their educational tasks and are not overloaded with other tasks. As I said, Reality looks like you're probably not going to make it in this legislative period. ÖVP and SPÖ have acted as a so-called “great coalition”. You said: As a great coalition, one solves big problem- me. – Government time is now coming to an end, but you have also rejected all the opportunities for major reforms, not only in school, but also in the health system, in the pension system, in connection with democracy reform, in military service and so on. But with regard to school, we don't have much time to wait!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12233	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12285	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12307	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The National Education Report shows, in particular, that there are weaknesses in the organisation and administration. That means there is a great potential for savings here. On one point, Mrs Minister, you can certainly also discuss: Why does the report have to cost € 1 million? But I don't want to go closer to that now. Recently I was in the “democracy workshop”, and I would like to report because the topic of language promotion has just been addressed: It was just a special school there, and when I was talking to the children, I thought at the beginning: Okay, it'll all have its accuracy. – But after half an hour of discussion and even after discussions with teachers, I felt that five of these 20 students were completely wrong. That's why you were in the special school – you will know, Mrs. Minister! – because they could not get German at the beginning of their education. Over time, however, they dominated perfectly German and are therefore completely misplaced as far as teaching is concerned. They can speak the language perfectly, they are partly better than those who simply “remain behind. ” We then recognized the main problem when we asked: Which professional goals and wishes do you have? – Just these five students were the only ones who had visions and perhaps also found a teaching course or Schnupperplatz. In view of this, I have to say – and Mr Mayer may be right – that: You really have to do more from the very beginning as far as the languages are concerned. You're going in the right direction, I see. The position of a State Secretary has been created where integration is attributed, but I mean: Placing alone is too little! Rather, you really have to go to kindergartens and preschools and especially there to promote the language in such a way that these people are not prevented from learning. That's what they'll never get away with! I looked at that. The five students mentioned are no longer brought to a primary school. That means that they will not have a proper degree in school and in the long term they will be the long-term unemployed of tomorrow, and that is, as I believe, simply not the right path we are taking here! Mrs Minister, if I look at the report, I note: The expenditure per capita is 40 per cent higher than the EU average. That is, we have an expensive system, and it could normally be assumed that the best of the best can come out of it. That means that we should be at the forefront of Europe, but that is not the case according to PISA. That means that it cannot be at the budget and at the expense. Of course, it can be more and more, but the budget available here would have to be sufficient for us to be at least internationally more than competitive, never have to fear a PISA test or something in the future and assume that if we use the funds properly, our children and young people will be cut off. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That means, where does it go? – It also has to do with teacher training. You have to differentiate here. I wish that in the future at every school location the director is something like a manager and can choose his own staff, namely the best of the best that counts performance again. We're going in the right direction now. The young teachers deserve more at the beginning, I think that's great. It's a way to say commitment pays off again. You go back to the teaching profession because you want to teach young people something, and not only for the reason that a young teacher formulated in a survey: Well, because I have two months of vacation in summer. - That's what we want. We have to put the lever on teacher training, on payment and, above all, on an image campaign. Mrs. Minister, that's where you're asked. Our teachers must again have the reputation that they Children want to train – to read, write, calculate, quite clearly, that's the um and on, we don't need to discuss it anymore, it just has to work – and that from our classes, top-trained young people come who are also successful in their studies and which in the long term we will also be accommodated internationally in top positions. It's a wide spectrum, I know, but if we start here together and finally stop occupying it simply red and black, then it might be different in the long run. Because the performance must count, not the party book. That's what I wish for the future. In principle, we can accept the report. It's all inside, that's a great report. I referred to the cost question. But in principle, the most important thing is to be the pupils and the young people in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12382	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12403	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! The present educational report is a very valuable basis for taking stock of the many important and positive measures that have been taken in recent years and, in fact, making the relevant important decisions on the measures needed in the next few years. Of course, there are still many measures to be taken, bearing in mind the idea that in recent years education policy has led the way, namely that in Austria we urgently need further steps towards the creation of our education system with equal opportunities. This is, of course, important in school, is also very important and worthy of improvement in the pre-school field, and I would like to refer to a debate that is not now about the school sector but about the education system as a whole – in the field of higher education. Of course, it makes no sense, from our social point of view, to improve the situation in schools in such a way that, as Mr Mayer said, we do not lose a child and bring the children to a high degree as possible, and then vice versa, the children who have managed the Matura may not be left to the universities to a substantial extent – I am referring to the debate that has now emerged following the OGH judgment to claim damages due to non-conform study conditions. From our point of view – I would like to make this confession again today – this OGH saying is a clear mission to us as a political act, as those who also have to decide on the conditions for universities, to improve the study conditions, and not to reduce the number of students in Austria. Once again said: We need more and no less well-qualified young people in Austria. From our point of view, it is very easy to sum up, namely that we do not have too many students in Austria, but at poor study conditions – and they are to improve. I have read that it is not a matter of continuing to study the whole world in Austria: On the one hand, I do not know that in Austria the whole world is studying, and global restrictions on access, as has now been put into space again, would result in – since the quota would continue to exist only in medicine – that those for whom we primarily have the appropriate educational opportunities, namely the children of Austrian taxpayers, no longer have places of study to a dramatic extent, because of course we would have to continue to take up students from European countries at our universities. We have now put a first step in the right direction with the funding of the study site – with the fact that there is no reduction in the course of the studies, but an expansion of the capacity. In this sense, we should also work in the next few years to improve educational opportunities at Austrian universities.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12452	Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12473	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators! I allow myself to return to the National Education Report and the School System and to go back to my predecessor, Mr Kuntzl. What does the National Education Report show? – It provides three themes in three sections or three rough blocks. First: How much do we invest in school, how is this resource used, and what comes out in the end? We see from the resources that Austria spends a lot. In other words, the Austrians can be proud: Education is worth something to them. Secondly, We see that we have decided on a large number of regulations from the process here in Parliament and in addition the Ministry is issuing daily breaks of regulations. This leads us to have a high regulatory density, which is ultimately to be reduced in the last few years by three topics, from my point of view. We have – and here I am in the third part of this report, namely the results – set out very clear parameters in recent years, both at international and national level, that we want reliable, secure skills at the end of the road. We want students who are mature, to have acquired such a thing as valid, secure skills and to be confirmed in their testimony. On the other hand, we want to ensure that there are basic qualifications at the end of primary school or primary schooling, that they are available in reading, writing, calculating, basic qualifications, and we want to have all the skills they need in order to work and learn successfully in secondary education. This requires that we release the way there. If we have to meet high standards on the part of schools, review them with educational standards, with international comparison studies, then the next step – and we already have an agreement here in Parliament – is the expansion of school autonomy and the way in which we come to these results. And if we get in touch with it, then We do not need the two motions for resolutions tabled either, because then the school can decide for itself whether this is useful in Vorarlberg, in Vienna, in Burgenland, in Styria or wherever it is useful or not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point: Education. We will give a comprehensive opinion on this, and we also have a committee of our own. I would like to return my thanks to colleagues Mayer, for me, the topic of educational education NEW is a model example of how legislation should come into being in this Parliament in the future: over several years of high involvement of all stakeholders, all involved – school partners, students, parents, teachers, scientists –, an expert group working together for both departments, and two Federal Ministers who accept this matter. This result shows that if we bring expertise into Parliament, we will have far better results than if we are constantly discussing the issue and the differences between us. I therefore believe that we have set a new standard with the education of educators, and I hope that in the future we will discuss not only door signs but results in the debt debate. Now I come to the third step: We see a very clear scientific link between the expansion of school autonomy, external evaluation and responsibility of teachers for teaching. There we must be able to support our teachers to take responsibility for their students and to create the learning environment they need in order to enable equal opportunities, joy in learning, justice, further development, lifelong learning. In this sense, I believe that we have created a new atmosphere with the education of educators and that we should take advantage of such expertise here in Parliament in future. Finally, I come to the OGH judgment. We have no social consensus yet, although all scientists show us that access schemes and study fees are the most fair study system in the world. But: What's not yet, can still be.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12546	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12568	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, very spontaneous and replicating on your comments, Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager: We need to work on this: more responsibility for school locations, more responsibility for directors and a resource allocation based on the socio-economic background of the individual school locations, with the individual locations bringing in their educational know-how, their responsibilities in order to be able to implement the detailed implementation on the spot as it best suits young people. We've got to get there. But this is a huge step. It's a system change. I know that you are also dealing with questions of systemic organization, organizational development, which is really system change from 1.0 to 4.0, because this requires complete rethinking. And that's already starting with the law. The legal system today is designed in such a way that we de facto control everything from above and specify it, refined by regulations and decrees. That's what we've got to do. Come to a result responsibility, which is then also coupled with personnel responsibility! I see, like you, the future there. But now to the National Education Report: For me, he is an essential basis for work. And yes, Mrs Marek, he is also suitable for the scientific discourse. He is also a document of the standard of our research in this field and is also a document of scientists: After all, 48 people have worked on drawing up this report. It is also important for international exchange, our cooperation within the framework of the European Union, within the OECD framework. We need scientific foundations again and again. And the National Education Report determines our education policy work if we want it. But of course that also depends on the recipient. We need to take a closer look at this and, I can only appeal to all of us here, also use the expertise we find here for the educational discourse accordingly. In the same way as Mrs Haubner did before, I have also considered what conclusions can be drawn in the individual categories and how we can use them for the educational work that we have been working together for a number of years now. I divided this into three categories. This is once the chapter: We've achieved a lot! I am already proud – I am doing a statistical job together with Mr Mayer – and we are now in 60 government documents on education, such as compulsory kindergarten year, smaller classes, new middle school, expansion all day school, education standards, vocational education, teaching and matura, and so on. This is already a very significant current account. Second category: We have to secure, stabilize and live the measures – and this is already more appellate – that we have put in place. Whether the regular parent-student-teacher-controversies have to be conducted respectfully, respectfully, whether they are vocational and educational advice, for which we have also worked together, the promotion of reading, participation in education programmes or German promotions. Thirdly, there is the area of open points. The foreign exchange can only be loud – I have to address myself now, but also to those who want to support me here –: unfeared, offensively forward. I assume that in this legislative period, at least three points are still in common here in the House: This is educational education NEW, here there is the government decision, the parliamentary timetable is defined. We are in final negotiations with regard to the further expansion of all-day school forms. There will be a 15a contract. Again, I insist that before the summer we can deal with the 15a agreement here in the House. Then comes the school administration package, which is now under review, review period is late May. And then the big, important permanent theme that I have been working on since 2009 – and, Mr Rosenkranz, I am not here to delegate, although I would sometimes like to delegate it honestly – the right to serve and pay: for a year 26 rounds of negotiations. I think that's an investment. I hope it's not Stranded Investment, so lost investment, because at the end two belong to service providers and service providers. Why is the new law of service and remuneration so important to me? – I would also like to say this clearly here in the House. The entry-level salaries we are currently paying. paying young teachers is simply not attractive enough. Talk to representatives of the National School Council in Upper Austria: Some of the young people go to Bavaria because they earn much more there as a young teacher. That means we have to pay the young teachers better. Our offer is here 500 € per month more. Second point: We are also expecting more design and responsibility from the directors in connection with education standards, feedback conversations, personal responsibility, and even more responsibility in the future. We all wish ourselves – third point – that we can inspire more cross-border students for the school profession. This is attractive for the students and it also does well for the other teachers in the team if there are people who have already met other working worlds. But we must also provide for pre-service periods for cross-border beginners in service and salary law, because no one starts with t 0 if he has already gained ten or twelve years of experience in other fields of work. We must also take this into account. Fourth point: I find the current pay system simply unfair if I look at the differences between AHS under-level teachers' incomes and the incomes of primary school teachers and teachers who teach at the New Secondary School. Also in connection with the teaching obligation I am for more fairness. And the fifth point: Yes, we expect more time with the students. There should be allowances for the acquisition of more functions and more responsibility, and pre- and post-processing should also be paid. We will continue to negotiate intensively, as the new service and remuneration law is simply a key to the further implementation of our reform measures. Now on investment in education; Mrs Haubner has also mentioned this. We also discussed this in detail in committee. Yeah, it's right, we're investing a lot in our school system right now. But you also have to look at the fact that the school system in Austria is relatively expensive in the OECD comparison – you can also formulate it like that. These are essentially four points. The first point: We have a first-class infrastructure – I deliberately formulate it so positively now – in schools and in school offerings. That means we have a high school density. In other words: We have a lot of small school locations. They are, of course, more expensive in relation to larger school locations. Second point: About 50 percent of our teachers are over 50 years old. With the salary curve we find in the public service, it simply means that we are currently very strongly investing in the more expensive segment of teachers, considered cost-effective. The third point is known. This is the teaching obligation in OECD comparison with other countries. The fourth point is: We simply have a first-class vocational education system, which is also more expensive, but this is a conscious investment in excellence in this field. I would like to add to this what you said, Mr Rosenkranz, to what you said: I appreciate the teaching. I appreciate the vocational education system. I say a clear yes to the dual education system and I do not tire to stress again and again that we are on this Area – so many we do not have at the moment – can also be found in the top line in the OECD comparison. But I'm saying something. Maybe you mixed this a little bit. If I look at myself today – now under the aspect of equal opportunities – as the distribution looks, then we simply know from the statistics that of 100 children whose parents only have compulsory schooling, 14 create Matura and five create a university degree, and of 100 academic children, 66 create Matura and 41 a university degree. I always say that it can't be that the interests, gifts and inclinations are so different in Austria. Here we see that simply the factor or the power of origin in Austria is still overwhelmingly large. It is important to me – we invest about € 1 billion today every year more in the school system than at the beginning of the legislative period – that we link every multi-investment with quality. This must succeed, for example, through the education standards, the new Matura, smaller classes with individualization of teaching. Here, the quality claim has to be demanded again and again. To this end, I would also like to say something basic: I say yes to the market economy, and I say No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I want a powerful public sector. This also means that we are focusing above all on quality and innovation. This is a major concern to me, and the right to serve and pay plays a very central role. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are very big challenges ahead of us, especially in the urban area. I think it was Mr Rosenkranz who pointed out that every second child who attends the public school in Vienna lives in a family where there is no German spoken at home, and the fatale is that most of these families are poor families as well. That means we have to invest there. I also always say that when I go to these schools and look into the round, every child who attends the folk school today, in 15, in 20 years also determines the skills of our country – economically, socially and democratically. Therefore, we need to invest in language promotion, the schools need to be better equipped and must not forget that teachers are crucial to educational success, but also parents and families. Finally, I would like to stress that education policy is simply a permanent process. Education policy never has a break in that sense. I don't think you can ever lean back. You can be happy in the meantime when something succeeds again, but there are always great tasks ahead of us. I can only say that measures are necessary to stabilise them so that they can get well with young people. Open points need to be continued and worked hard. We have no choice, we have to go forward and look into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12699	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Jarmer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12720	Mr National Council President! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, [[The speaker does not translate the beginning of her speech by the sign speaker.]] Sound off! That's it. That's what reality looks like. The current case: Two students are sitting in school and don't understand anything just like you. This is the case every day. Imagine, without any translation performance, sitting where and understanding nothing, you would probably get up and go home. That's what the kids have to do every day. This is the case with these two children. A number of things are described in the Education Report. The question is: Integration or special school? I think both systems have lost their authority. Why is that so? – I would like to point out a few more points here. Mrs. Minister! I don't know if You really got all the information directly or not, maybe it's your official staff. It is true that the right to speak is still nonexistent for deaf children in Austria. Maybe that's a surprise to one or another. It's like this: For deaf children, German will always be foreign-controlled, as will any other language, such as French or English. By not being able to hear them, they can not acquire them naturally, but must be controlled, namely, foreign-controlled, learning German. That means they can't control what they're doing. On this point sign language will always be the mother tongue, because they can acquire it quite naturally. They can observe them at home, they can also observe their own language development, without exception. But many people still do not understand that. They ask: What else do you need sign language for? – They have German anyway. But they need a foundation, because without it they can't learn any more language, and that's difficult. This is ten times as difficult without this basis. How would you feel without a mother tongue if you might learn Chinese or another language? - It takes a long time. You can all be happy that you have got the opportunity to acquire your language naturally. And it is still true that although these children have a formal right through recognition, the right to speak in the sign language is not achieved in the Teaching Act. That's the big point. This has consequences. The level of language for children in school who are six years old and deaf is exactly the same as for children who are two years old and can hear. This is, please, an optimal result. There's even worse. Mandatory school leavers have the level of eight-year-old hearing children. That means they're badly trained. At 80 to 90 percent you can speak of illiteracy. The teacher training will be discussed. The inclusion is a topic. But that teachers are obliged to learn the sign language, there is no such thing. You can have a 70-hour sign language course, however, which is without examination. Who can teach Italian without having completed a degree without having completed these exams and being able to prove a level C competence? In Austria, we say, an estimated 5 percent of teachers can use the sign language. And where does this knowledge come from? – They have been taught on the basis of their own initiative, because they have someone in the family or really learn hard. That is an impossible situation, and we must change that! These two points are very important. Now I want to come back to the Carinthian case. The child is in the integration class. The Council of State Schools, not the Council of Town Schools, strives for support. And then they're sign-talk-competent? - No, they're on A1 level. Do they also work to teach the content on Gymnasiallevel? - I can't. There's no such thing as that. That's scandalous. How can you have a child? to teach without the language being able to be applied competently? That's why I wonder how that can be? Perhaps you go to another school, if you can hear, but if the teachers are all not sign language competent, the offer for children is reduced. That is, the support teachers come to the children who need sign language, but they themselves cannot sign. This concerns all the federal states, all children. Perhaps there are some classes where there may be a teacher or a teacher who may be able to cover a bit at sign language level. But that's not fair. This is a human right that is seriously violated. Here we have to stand for the rights of language and for these children! Mrs. Minister, this is an important concern to me for you. That's what I'm fighting for. It's very important that we change that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For the studies: I think that's very good. The education report covers a lot, but in the area of disability, school success, language competence of disabled children and so on, the survey obviously looks quite different. I think it would be very important to explore this area once. It is my concern to you that perhaps in the case of Carinthia, Mrs Minister, you will see that this is going to be a positive one. Of course, there are many, many cases that are similar in storage, but we may be able to solve them. You said that no child should stay on the track, you should leave behind, but I think it is often so that the children who are disabled are left and forgotten. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12805	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12826	Mr President. Dear Mrs Federal Minister! We are now discussing the National Education Report far more than an hour. It shows an overall view of our education and school sector, provides important figures and data as the basis for policy decisions and also provides information on the reform steps of recent years and their impact. But it also proves – and I believe it is also necessary to speak on the occasion – that the reform of the previous governments could be phased out step by step. Some examples may be from the fields of vocational education and training: The follow-up to the primary school has been since 1. Last September last year free of charge by courses possible. This is a very important step, I think, which has been put here. Only a few days ago, we created the legal basis for bringing up the degree course with the help of vocational schools and the labour market service. On the occasion, I think, it will not take long for the social partners to come to the idea of thinking about whether vocational schooling as a whole is perhaps too short in some professions. So the extension of vocational schooling is likely to be a topic in the next few years. One must of course also discuss this together with the length of the respective lessons. There is also the modularization of the evening schools. It has already been said today that the HTL is an important support of our vocational education and training. Education with Matura, which is now the basis for any further education, and this is free of charge. More than 10 000, I believe, Mrs Federal Minister, are already in this programme, and some 700 have already completed it positively. This is a very important educational step for all those who perhaps started or completed a teaching some time ago and then only dreamed of moving on somehow. The teaching was then a dead end, today it's not like that anymore. Since the Ministry of Education is in SPÖ hands, a lot has happened, but – and this has to be said – much is still ahead of us, a lot is still ahead of us. Everything is about money, and therefore, I believe, one should continue to shape education policy after the following, my foreign exchange: Correcting an educational deficit in a society is always more expensive than not to make it come about at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12865	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12887	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The National Education Report, which is being discussed here, is an important indicator of our education system and provides data, background reports and analyses for a fundamental educational discourse. I have been looking for the many school experiments and their evaluations, and unfortunately I have not found them. I believe that school tests could provide meaningful insights and would be very important for future school development. You've cost a lot of money, too. And here I am already in education expenditure. It says that between 2000 and 2009, public education expenditure in Austria increased by 25 percent. With an average of €9 000 per head of expenditure in Austria, we are very much above the EU-27 average. Nevertheless, success is moderate. I highlight the example of reading. It says that the ten-year-olds of Austria have the last place in reading skills among the 14 analogue countries. A BIFIE report states that almost every third Austrian student has major problems in solving simplest mathematical questions towards the end of primary school. This is actually a poverty report. As a result, the factors for low reading performance continue to be: It is the limit of the personal and temporal resources in the family to support the children. Learn to read, speak, start in the parents' house. If it is not read or read at home, it is very difficult to pick it up at school. It is incomprehensible that reading at the Ministry of Education has been abolished. It is also noteworthy that only 2 per cent of these offers learn to learn to read about the problem in the training courses at the educational universities. We have already heard that the educators also criticised the lack of appropriate training opportunities, with the educational report in terms of teacher education giving the best evidence to the Austrian teachers. For example, Austria is one of those countries with the highest share of teachers attending training, 97 percent. I would like to give a great deal of praise to Austrian teachers. What are the conclusions of this? – The sooner it starts, the better it is. What the parent house fails to do in early pedagogy, can only be very difficult to pick up. That is why it takes much more attention to early pedagogy, kindergarten and working conditions in public schools. They're to be improved. People's schools are to be strengthened, because a stable house needs a good foundation. If that's not given, then we're fixing, and we all know repair costs a lot of money. Everything is about the teacher, says John Hattie, the New Zealand educational researcher. He speaks to me from the heart. It's about quality in the teacher's profession. We have already put the educational training on track – and I am also pleased about it – but we need a modern right of service and remuneration. I would like to see serious and fair negotiations so that we can reach a good solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12935	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e12956	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! The report was praised by all parties, from all sides. I believe, however, that sometime when we have these reports and also very many studies, we must take them seriously after the discussions. Because each study often points to the same wrong developments, and with regard to the target state, experts have long been very clearly analysed what is to be improved. So at some point we have to decide: Do we work for the stakeholders or do we work for the children? Do we want the best for the children or do we just want to keep the status quo? I am already with Mrs Haubner that it is particularly important for teaching. But there you can see what the Minister of Education has done in recent years with the education standards as a competence orientation, new middle school, teaching with Matura and much more. I think a lot of things happened. But now you get to the scaffolding, and that's the school system. It should not be said that Ideology is not a matter of ideology, because ideology is per se nothing bad. It's about the system, and here all the experts, all the experts, but also all international examples show that the selection is too early with ten and that it takes schools all day! I don't think you should talk about it, but it's black on white. But then we have to change this system too! [[Complementary of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Mrs Franz said: In the classroom, however, it is also true that the right to serve and pay depends on the right of employment. It is very important to me to stress that this is not, as is often suggested, simply a matter for Mrs Minister, and she should be dealing with the union, that must already be our concern! Sometimes it happens to me like this: Some colleagues stand next to the ring, watch and then give notes for the course. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Which one? Names!]] But the future, Austria's future, will be decided in the classrooms and is our every concern. Since we know what has happened in recent years, who has already conducted all the negotiations, this must finally be our all task! But not so that a little bit of a grin of the woman minister will be watched as she negotiates with the union, but that must be our concern. There we have to fight with her on one side, regardless of the party. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13001	The next speaker was Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13022	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The regular issue of a National Education Report has already become a matter of course for educational policy decisions in many countries. I also think it is important and right that this educational report has already been prepared in Austria for the second time and is being discussed in detail here in plenary today. Despite many resistances, it has been possible in recent years to initiate central school development processes, which have already been partially implemented. I am particularly addressing the school of the whole day, which is also discussed in a chapter in the 2012 National Education Report. In doing so, the National Education Report recommends extending the restricted form and also draws on research findings. For the restricted form above all, there are educational and pedagogical considerations – a long-standing demand of SPÖ, but the obstacles still remain high by our government partners. For professionals, but especially for single mothers and fathers, a full-day care offer is a necessity. Demand has doubled over the last six years. By the school year 2018/2019 200 000 places are to be offered. Thus, social change can also be taken into account. It is also gratifying that an agreement with the Federal Government on the extension of the whole day school could be reached at the national conference last Thursday. This is certainly another milestone in education policy. The National Education Report also stresses the need to consider removing the requirement of two-thirds consent of teachers to a restricted all-day school. Perhaps an agreement could be reached here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13063	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13084	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! It has been mentioned several times that the present Education Report 2012 is an important guidance aid for the educational landscape in Austria, but also an important basis for education policy work. In recent years, there have been many important, offensive, new ways in education policy: with the compulsory kindergarten year, the new middle school, further development in upper secondary education, the measures in the field of vocational training or the resurgence of training and education qualifications. In the mandatory kindergarten year, for example, children are encouraged in their creativity and especially in language development before they enter school. The New Secondary School is consistently working on a common full-day school for up to 14-year-olds, thus also a more equal education system to come closer. It is particularly the promotion of individual strengths, but also the development of personality. This means that, in a recognised environment, improved performance can be promoted permanently. At the apprenticeship level, young people can opt for vocational training and with the teaching of Matura they can also complete a general education. In particular, people who have not been able to obtain the degree at the end of the compulsory schooling can also be able to re-adapted to everyday life. Yes, we are undoubtedly still faced with a lot of challenges. I also think that many measures really need to arrive in classrooms and in schools. I mean, the most important project for the future is the education of teachers, which is intended to put teachers' training on a new foundation and, equipped with truly new structures and content, to be much more focused on the necessary competences for the life and individual performance of children and young people. I would like to congratulate the Minister on a significant current account, especially on the fact that many measures in recent years have been able to establish the basis for a long-standing new teaching and learning culture at Austrian schools.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13135	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Sacher is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13157	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! As a provisional last – I assume that I remain – I am allowed to summarize this very long-term debate once again. We are dealing here with education in many, many discussions, and this issue is of enormous importance to the public too. I have only set up the “standard” of today; he deals with the topic of education on several sides. He addressed the issue of “knowledge” to reform teacher training – that is to say, decisive support for these measures from the media! However, the “standard” also has a comment on the last page, and it bears the title: ‘Teacher’s right: Forged’s failure’. Ladies and gentlemen, we should not vote in this song. I claim the opposite: It's a success report! Is it a failure – not only quantitatively, but above all qualitatively – if, in its term of office, the Federal Minister of Education has brought in 60 proposals which have been important steps in the reform of education? – These are major progress: the New Secondary School, which will be Austrian-wide from 2018 onwards, will reproduce all day care. [[Abg. Petzner: Read more! What's there?]] Is this a failure if there are 200 000 more places for care, ladies and gentlemen, when 160 million euros are used for these reforms? Or the new Matura, the modular upper level – is that a failure? Be honest! Let's not always make the achievements bad and let's not talk them small! The new joint teacher training is a very important concern for us. In particular, this will greatly improve the quality of our teachership – and I belong to it. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only quote one paragraph from this "standard" comment. I can fully stress this, after decades of membership of the trade union, but I do not agree with what certain trade union representatives, especially from the AHS, are presenting on this issue. – Quotation from the standard: “The teacher image must and will change. The trade unionists” – and I would like to include the conservatives who want to emphasize that they want to preserve; Continued quotation – “do little to contribute to this reform”. And now comes the very essential conclusion: “Nevertheless, it’s not just about salaries and service plans, but about the training of children” – our children. Ladies and gentlemen, this must be the most important concern in school reform: a better school, more opportunities for all children in Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13195	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Education to take note of this report III-382 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. - That's unanimity. Accepted. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Walser, ladies and gentlemen, on inclusive leadership of basic level 1 – flexible school entry. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner and colleagues on the location-related language promotion concept. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. It is also rejected. [[14:52:26]] 2. Point Report of the Cultural Committee on the Government Template (2189, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz, the Kunstförderungsberitungsgesetz 1981 and the Monumental Protection Act (Adaptability-Adaptation Act Art and Culture) (2307 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Cultural Committee on the Government Template (1787, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on audiovisual relations (2308 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13279	We come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Ablinger has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13312	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! With today's decision, we will adapt the Kunstförderungsbeitsgesetz, the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz and the Monument Protection Act on the basis of the Novelle of Administrative Jurisdiction. This is not a great thing now, but this is necessary for the multistage new system of administrative jurisdiction. There are, as it were, new processes and new approaches, how complaints against notifications are answered. In the future, the Federal Administrative Court will decide on complaints against decisions by the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds, on complaints by the Bundesdenkmalamt, and on complaints against decisions by the district administration authority, the administrative court of the countries will decide again. This is a simplification in the process of bringing together and the essential content of this bill. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity because, in connection with this innovation in the protection of monuments, the annual report of the Bundesdenkmalmamt happened today by chance to point out that I can certainly recommend that I look into it. This report gives a good overview of the work being done. ==References====External links== Year is with a day of the monument, which is essentially about inviting students to deal critically with this monument question or with monuments in their place and to deal with them in total. There were 71 000 visitors in the previous year, for example, and they are doing very exciting projects. This can be read in the Monumental Protection Report. What's quite interesting is, I think, mediation. It is clear from the work of the monument that there is different access to the topics, so there is different assessment: Is this house really worth remembering? Is it necessary to demand monument protection for a house from the fifties? Or: Why should a city become a World Heritage Site, and what does that mean for the people living there? There are critical discussions and sometimes misunderstandings about this, because there is a discrepancy between what the technical evaluation is on the one hand and, on the other hand, with regard to public acceptance and mediation. In this respect, mediation, expertise and communication are particularly important in the monument protection work. It does not have anything of it if the monument protection makes decisions that are then not understandable. In so far as I have looked at this, it is not uninteresting that the employees have covered a total of 1,102,524 train and road kilometres to be on-site and to communicate. I think this is a very remarkable number, and it is evident that they are very committed to dialogue and communication. That is why they are also grateful to them at this point: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13355	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Nice to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13376	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! What only the greatest optimists in this country believed in a few months ago is with 1. January 2014 Reality. For decades discussions, lengthy negotiations have ultimately led to a very encouraging result. And much more important: All the lies that Austrian politics, as a whole, wanted to agree on any reform capacity, are being punished. The opposite is the case, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. ==References== The new Novelle of Administrative Jurisdiction will enter into force, but without exaggerating it is a truly memorable day in our Republic! All of us in this House can claim with fug and right and are also proud to have contributed to this law, and we can be honest about this remarkable, admittedly sometimes difficult way together across all the party borders. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it was a courageous, but also long-needed, step in the direction of a cross-border administrative reform. This administrative reform primarily serves to reduce the administrative system, save costs and give people the opportunity to have access to justice easily and easily. This reform guarantees rapid, unbureaucratic decisions and saves citizens valuable time. With the introduction of the two-stage administrative jurisdiction system per 1. Januarys are consistently, but also legal provisions or adjustments in the broadest areas of administration are necessary. To this end, this current Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act is also used, and with this Government template, the necessary legal framework conditions in the field of art and culture are adapted to the new system. It is very specific about the Künstler-Sozialversicherungsfondsgesetz, the Kunstförderungsbeitungsgesetz and the Monument Protection Act. The Bundesverwaltungsgericht now becomes the appeal agency for the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds. Even the administrative instance has so far been missing. That means it's a real development. However, it also means a massive expansion of the legal protection system in the area of monument protection and the promotion of art promotion law, including in the sense of procedural accelerations, and the strengthening of the citizen service through a clear discharge of the administration authorities of the ministry, but also the desirable harmonisation of all procedures. If issues arise in the implementation phase – this is a reform step in this dimension, I think, only too logical – then it is in the nature of the matter that one is devoted to these issues. For example, a quite legitimate question has been raised in the Committee: What happens to the expertise in the area of monument protection? Here, the Federal Minister, like me, was able to give a bright and very satisfactory answer. But as has been said, these issues that arise here are normal in a major reform, as it is here. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen – because the usual crackers from the BZÖ are back in between – that's what people expect from us: Reforms within the meaning of our Republic, and not permanent elections. We start common- This is one of the major reforms for which people also choose us.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13433	Mr Jury came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13455	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! – Nice educational debate, which I want to address again. [[Abg. Grosz: This is a far-reaching debate!]] We shall, of course, agree with these two government documents, namely, the Federal Act, which amends the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz, the Kunstförderungsbesetz and the Monument Protection Act, and, on the other hand, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on audiovisual relations. Both templates are important. There are already a lot of cooperations between Austria and other European countries in the field of film industry, and that will not be the last cooperation. It is important that there are new laws that go into time and support artists in their activities. However, I would also like to go back to the educational discussion that we have had today, because again and again blatant figures are blatant in the media. Again and again, you are talking that 20 percent of 14-year-old school leavers cannot read meaningfully. I am very glad that last year we have carried out a joint initiative proposal from Parliament, a five-party proposal, namely this master plan for public libraries. This Master Plan aims at establishing binding common standards. Some institutions are involved in this bookshop and library work, namely the Library Association, the Library Office, the Countries with the cities and communities, and there should be binding standards for staff, for premises, for opening hours, for the media, for example, two media per person or 10 per cent exchange per year. This also applies to finances. At present, this is still 85 percent on a voluntary basis, and of course this voluntary will be somehow honoured, the involvement of education and culture policy. These points should then be combined into a common strategy, because reading is just important. If you know that vocabulary literally has to do with wealth, then we should give our children this wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13489	Mrs Zinggl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13511	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We of the Greens have agreed to the new administrative jurisdiction with the new body and are therefore of course also in favour of this implementation, but not without pointing out that there has been no happy change in the protection of the monument. Why not? - Because for the sub- The Minister has so far been responsible for the protection, or if the monument protection is removed. That was also good because there is a lot of discretion in this area, as well as interpretation rooms, which are ultimately classical political decision-making areas. And now we are actually transferring these decisions from politics to an administrative level, namely the Federal Administrative Court. This may be a pleasure to some political drowners, but the shift of politics in administration is not an improvement, it is a deterioration. If, for example, a decision is taken on the cost-effectiveness of a renovation, it is a matter of consideration. And after such decisions have been made, they can, if they have been made by politics, be held responsible to Parliament and the public, while the administration is not responsible. I think that's a deterioration. Then, in the Federal Administrative Court, we now have no Senate decision, but individual judges who are set aside for it. Whether their competence in the areas they are caring for is actually as given as it is in the ministry, is a question which I have actually raised in the Cultural Committee, but which has not yet been clarified. Whether the experts from the ministry can transfer to the administrative courts so easily and without great costs, I dare still doubt. So: With all sympathy for administrative reform, but in the protection of monuments, this does not improve. At least we should admit that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13553	I call Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13574	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We too will agree with these two proposals. That was already a homage from the ÖVP. We heard: This administrative reform, it's all crazy, it all works great! - We agree, congratulations. I really have to say it's in the right direction. If it were everywhere, then we would save ourselves a lot of money – social security funds et cetera. I think that would be the next step. Maybe we can make it go that way. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: Are you coming to us now?]] - Please? You must agree! We just have to do that. I see, you were so hot and flame at your speech, when you said what's going to be saved, how much money we save ourselves now, that I say, Okay, that's going in the right direction. But, Mrs Minister – and we have already discussed this in committee – cultural sponsorship should also be deductible. Of course, the public hand sponsors culture, that is important, but we should also make private use of money for it, so that they can write it down. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We've already discussed this, Mrs. Minister. They were not averse, because it goes in the right direction, because culture and art is something so important! A culture country like Austria has deserved even more money to be invested here. And if you can drive up private people, we say so, who invest their money in art and culture, that's something good. That is why I am looking forward to broad support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13626	Mr deputies, have you made the request now? This is why we will have to talk about it again. The signatures do not agree. We're going to follow that up. [[Oh-Rufe in the hall.]] Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13656	Madam President. High house! I'll take a minute. I welcome the positive adoption of these two proposals. I am pleased that an agreement with Spain has now been reached with regard to film co-productions. This simplifies cooperation in this area. A few sentences on administrative jurisdiction – but here we have already exchanged in committee –: Mr Zinggl, I will have a special eye on it as far as monument protection is concerned. I do not want to say that I see it as you do, but I think that it is particularly important to ensure that the monument protection is federal matter, that we fulfil the federal competence accordingly with life and now, of course, also ensure that the first instance already takes balanced decisions. With the law-making decision, it is certainly not yet done in these matters. There is still a lot of work in the details, in the implementation. This will be a great task for us. But I want you to know that I am aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13687	Mrs Elisabeth Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13711	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Peter Kern, Sabine Derflinger, Julian Pölsler, Barbara Albert, Franz Novotny, Jessica Hausner or Ulrich Seidl are just a few successful Austrian filmmakers, which I can now call here for time. The Austrian film celebrates successes in Cannes, Berlin and Hollywood. Film festivals such as the Viennaale in Vienna, the Diagonal in Graz or Crossing Europe in Linz are well known and established far beyond the Austrian borders. The Oscar-winning film "Amour" by Michael Haneke has already collected more than 30 prizes. In recent times, he received the Prince of Asturias Prize, one of Spain's highest awards – which also leads me to the film agreement between Austria and Spain. This co-production agreement with Spain was first concluded in 1970 and is now to be renewed. The agreement aims to improve and simplify cooperation in the field of film in general and the recognition of Community productions in particular. For example, Community productions will enable them to benefit from aid and other financial benefits and benefits in the future. Austria can rightly be proud of the Austrian film. However, in order for the Austrian film to continue to be successful and, indeed, to be even more successful, the Austrian film needs reliable partners. One step in the right direction is, of course, the already mentioned film agreement between Austria and Spain to intensify film economic relations. Even with other countries, there are already such film agreements. A necessary step was certainly also the massive increase in film promotion on the part of the Ministry of Culture: In 2011, there was €8 million more in the annual budget. But a necessary partner, which is certainly much more required in the field of film industry than he has previously foreseen, is the Minister for Economic Affairs. He should once take a firm stand in the wallet of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and support the film industry as a strong partner, just as other ministries do. Since I started with Peter Kern, I can finally give you a little movie tip along the way: From Friday, in the Austrian cinemas of the film "Diamond Fever or Buy a Colorful Balloon", the anti-capitalist comedy of Peter Kern will be on display. - Go, look!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13756	In the meantime, it has been clarified that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Markowitz has been properly tabled. As a result of a mistake, Mr Klubobmann Lugar has twice signed on this motion for a resolution, which is irrelevant. [[Abg. Grosz: Maybe he is schizophrenic, Madam President!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Maybe he has now been reported twice!]] The application is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13834	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13856	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There are two legislative instruments which we are now debating in one: the Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act for Art and Culture, as well as the Agreement between Austria and Spain on Film Relations. These are two areas which we, in general, are unanimously opposed to in this House and which we support together. This is a good basis – on the one hand, when it comes to further development of the Administrative Jurisdiction Act, it becomes more practicable that it is manageable when it comes to contradictions or appeals. Secondly, it is a living matter as regards the subject of film. Whether on a documentary or an informative level, cooperation is important nowadays. We are also integrated into many areas of the European continent, so it is, I think, an advantage for the future that this agreement with Spain will be concluded. There should be another impulse in the film industry through it. There should be more opportunities for our creative people to be active here, too, beyond the borders. That is why, from my point of view, this law is a good foundation. This draft law must be accepted in order to further develop the film industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13889	Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13912	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My remarks also apply to the cooperation agreement in the field of film between Austria and Spain. This bilateral agreement, which we have already heard, was already concluded in 1970 and is now to be renewed in order to improve and simplify cooperation in the field of film. Such cooperations in the field of film are extremely important and successful. Just think of the many Austrian co-productions, such as Austrian-French-German co-productions under the direction of Michael Haneke. International cooperation strengthens the film industry and thus stimulates the economy, but also facilitates access to the promotions, as such bilateral film agreements enable productions to be treated in the other country as domestic productions. Most or very many European films are now produced together with other countries. One speaks of 25 to 30 percent of European film production affected by it. Specially smaller countries with less financial film companies bring great benefits to such co-productions. But the film industry is still capable of expanding; you know this at the latest when you look at the trade deficit with the USA in the audiovisual sector. Co-productions, ladies and gentlemen, not only have the advantage of access to another, much larger market and the associated improved exploitation and distribution possibilities; they also play an important cultural role. The wide-ranging effect of a film, which can always be seen in the same good quality at different times in different places, is enormous. Communication, the discussion of a topic, aesthetic quality, identity-stimulating aspects, all of which makes the film an essential part of national culture. Co-productions also promote cultural exchanges between countries, they promote understanding for other countries and for another culture, and they simply become curious about the other, about the unknown, in the sense of European integration and a European identity. We've already heard this: In addition to the agreement with Spain, there is a trilateral agreement with Switzerland and Germany, but also bilateral agreements with France, Italy, Canada and Luxembourg, and one has just been negotiated with Israel. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e13959	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act Art and culture with title and entrance in 2189 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this draft law a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever approves this draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Markowitz, colleague and colleagues on the need for fiscal deductibility of donations to art and cultural institutions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is therefore not accepted. [[Abg. Grosz: Are they double-counted now, the voices because two signatures are on it?]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I advise you to take a closer look at the Rules of Procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Proposal from the Cultural Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty, Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on audiovisual relations, in 1787 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[15:21:08]] 4. Reference: Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection's report on Amendment No 2278/A by Mr Sonja Ablinger, Mag. Silvia Fuhrmann, colleagues on a federal law amending the Bundesmuseen Act 2002 (2309 d.b.) 5. Point report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 2272/A(E) by Mr Mag. Heidemarie Unterlander, colleagues on the preservation and upgrading of the Volkskundemuseum in Vienna (2310 d.B.) 6. Point report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 2274/A(E) by Mr Mag. Heidemarie Inlander, colleagues and colleagues on the Museum of Volkskunde (2311 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14030	We come to points 4 to 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14061	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! My cultural speeches always end with the sentence: The preservation of our identity is the subject of conscience of the epoch. This time this sentence is supposed to be at the beginning. At the beginning of the legislative period, we have already complained that the government programme has devoted only seven sides of the culture. The preservation of our own identity was not worth a line, while multiculti and the construction of parallel societies were announced. With this minimum programme, the Federal Government has essentially also been satisfied, and our Federal Minister has been more drawn to a passive role of the administrator in recent years. Already in the 2005 UNESCO Convention on Cultural Diversity, which could also be referred to as the Magna Charter of Culture, human rights to cultural diversity are enshrined in international law. Art and culture are thus defined as a bearer of identity. My two requests, which are on the agenda today, are a change for the Austrian museum landscape. Where, if not in our museums, is our rich cultural heritage preserved? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Our folklore museum is the largest and most important of its kind in Europe, due to its extensive collections and research activities on folk art and regional culture in Austria. I don't know if this is what everybody in the house knows, I'd like you to really listen to me now, and that you're so to say you're in it: This house with only €400 000 per year is a cultural shame, ladies and gentlemen, dear! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Zinggl.]] There are countless multi-culti temples that can count on full support each year. I'll just give you one example: The WUK, the base station for more than 130 multicultural projects, receives more than €1.4 million annually from the city of Vienna alone. Institutions such as these also get a lot of support from the federal government. On the other hand, the Volkskundemuseum in Vienna is crumbling. What past generations have gathered with love and with knowledge for centuries is stunning in the Palais Schönborn. Mrs Bundesminister, I therefore call on you, in my request, to secure the Museum of Folks, both organisationally and financially! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It seems to be a spirit of time to look after other cultures and to find multicultural skills. With this kind of cultural policy, however, our roots are cut down. By doing so, people are held, taking the security and knowledge of their own meaning. At the end of this de-rooting is the man-made one-man. Ladies and gentlemen, do you not notice that this is an act of self-denial? Well, I'm not surprised at the SPÖ, although I was almost in agreement with Mr. Klubobmann Cap when I went down, he did mean that the way in which I'm going about the matter would not be uninteresting. But he doesn't listen now. But from you of the ÖVP, I have to say honestly, I am really disappointed because you have also written home and home-consciousness on your flags in the election campaign. But if it comes to it, then you completely fail. How can you not agree to this request?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I really wonder – and I have to talk to you in my conscience: How can you force the folklore museum to look so far? I repeat: This is a cultural shame of first rank! But now the Museum of Art, whose core task is to deal with the material and immaterial testimonies of different peoples. It now receives € 25 million for the conversion alone. Of this comes generously from the art and cult turbudget alone € 19 million. The rest in the amount of € 6 million comes from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There's even another ministry going to help. In addition, the annual operation will add € 2 million. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to narrow the activity of this museum, I don't want to criticize it and question it, but I repeat: The Volkskundemuseum receives only €400 000 annually. And there's nothing else to add to it, no million amounts for reconstructions and renovations. I find that to be deeply unfair, and that is not all right with our museum landscape. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this place a praise: Despite this difficult financial situation, the former director of the Volkskundemuseum, Mrs Mag. Margot Schindler, great performance, and also the current director, Mag. Matthias Beitl, you have to congratulate because it is not easy to do such a good job with such a small budget. But now I come to what has led me to work for the Museum of Art, namely the Renamement of the Museum of Art in the World Museum in Vienna. That's really a pseudo action. What's that supposed to be? This is a Larifari word. To me, it sounds like you have to name the geography cabin of the Ministry of Culture now, what do I know. If one proceeds according to logic, one could also call the Natural History Museum a World Museum; there are animals from all over the world there too. So I'm saying, Even in the progressive Netherlands, from which the new director of the Museum of Art, Steven Engelsman, comes, the Rijksmuseum Volkenkunde in Leiden, i.e. the Museum of Art, of course, does not need a new name. So, and now another bad thing, Mrs. Federal Minister. They can all remember that there was this unsuccessful effort to merge the Museum of Folks with the Museum of Folks. The whole thing was called “Museum NEW”, the preparations for it devoured summaries. Even for the naming you have to assign extra professionals. And even in this project, the inconsistency with the Volkskundemuseum was striking and, in fact, also the contempt of the same. The exhibits had only found place on the attic and in the basement. And that was also the reason why we took massive action against the liberals. This project was condemned to failure and had to be abandoned because of the massive resistance. Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied, in the four years you have also failed – I say now salopp – to shake off the Seizel-Dictat of the Gehrer-Zeit and to release the Museum of Art History from the Kunsthistorische Museum and finally convert it back into an independent Federal Museum. The former director of the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Dr. Wilfried Seipel, understood that the then Federal Minister Gehrer was blackmailing the Museum of People's History – I call it that way – and that it was included in his field of responsibility. Since then, it is no longer an independent Federal Museum, but only a part of the Art History Museum. This was a mistake, because the Museum of Art has nothing to do with the Art History Museum. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With my request, this error will be corrected and the Volkskundemuseum will again be made an independent Federal Museum. We are also voting today on the talking rooms of the winter palace of Prince Eugen. These newly renovated representation rooms of the Ministry of Finance will now become exhibition rooms of the Austrian Gallery Belvedere. I would like to mention this again in the context of this, because it is interesting how generous one is dealing with the funds here. This transformation into exhibition rooms is to be welcomed in principle. Additional costs of €2.55 million per year for the operation. And there's also a general renovation for which you're gonna shoot €5.7 million. At the same time – and I repeat it all the time – we have only €400 000 each year for the Volkskundemuseum, for the entire operation. I've got to hold this over and over again. Mrs Federal Minister, I ask you here from the National Council's mouth, I would like to hear from you that you are confessing to the Volkskundemuseum and that you are in the future committed to this House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Sit together with your colleague Mailath-Pokorny, Vienna's Cultural City Councillor, and find a worthy solution for the Volkskundemuseum! [[Abg. Petzner: Mr Jarolim has responded to the list of speakers!]] I am looking forward to the words of my next speaker. Ladies and gentlemen! Take note of the importance of both the Volkskundemuseum and the Volkskundemuseum – they are large houses in Austria – and therefore agree with my requests! And I conclude my speech with my sentence: The preservation of our identity is the subject of our conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14166	Mr Sacher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14188	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We have a package of museum requests today. We shall vote in favour of the first, but we shall reject the two requests made by my previous speaker, Mrs Unterlander. For the winter palace in the Himmelpfortgasse a sentence: This is additional exhibition space for the Belvedere. In this case, funding is not carried out from the cultural budget – that is, the activities of the Ministry of Culture are not restricted – but from the resources of the Ministry of Finance. And that is, of course, very positive. Thank you, Mrs Unterlander. Of course, respect for the work of the Volkskundemuseum, but I do not want the slightest hint of a tenuous, ideological collection to be made here either. And in your repeated requests, I cannot defend this silent suspicion, Mrs Unterlander. Highest recognition also for the work of the association. It is a club museum, and it is funded more than other club museums by the Federal Ministry of Education and Culture. You mentioned the amount yourself, for you it is too low: €400 000. In addition, the € 130 000 for the financing of the deposit will be added. The responsibility for the building lies with the city of Vienna, therefore no competence of the Federal Minister for Culture. A cooperation or integration into the federal museums was not desired by the institutions of the association itself. That means complaining now is not the right place here. One would have to discuss this with the bodies of the association that operates the museum. Nevertheless, good museum work is done there and therefore also thanks for it. Now to the World Museum: You obviously don't like the term at all. I would like to comment a little on why one has chosen this term according to Steven Engelsman's concept. And that's because the motto is: It's about people around the world. It is about openness of the world, and it is about encountering people and cultures at an eye - this is an important difference, an important feature - and not down from above, as we have unfortunately experienced from history sometime. The meeting is in the foreground, between people, between the cultures of the whole world. I think you have understood that, you are talking, in a sense, about the creation of a single human being. – Dear Mrs Colleague, you are wrong! This is certainly not the intention, but it is about openness of the world, it is about people, their social, social and cultural anchorage. That's the identity of this house. Therefore: As I have said, we are in favour of the first request concerning the Winter Palace, but we unfortunately have to reject your two requests, Mrs Ingeer, colleagues from the Free Trade Unions.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14236	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14257	Madam President. That major projects in culture are decided above all by the Minister of Finance, I know that at the latest, since the Erl Festival is subsidized. For years, the Großbaumogul Haselsteiner in the Ministry of Culture has tried to do this, and then he suddenly came up with the fact that the "Scotter" can be found somewhere else, namely in the Ministry of Finance. And since then, there has been this support, out of your ministry, Mrs. Minister, out of your budget. You can be happy to thank you – and you can then continue to save on all other projects in the future. From this we learn, I think, quite well that the Ministry of Culture would probably have been better attached to the Ministry of Finance from the beginning. Now we have a second case. In November of last year, the Minister of Finance had a new good idea, namely to make the rooms of the former city palace of Prince Eugen, also the former Ministry of Finance, a Baroque museum. For five years, this building has been renovated with amazing €200 million, and has been rebuilt according to the wishes of the Ministry of Finance – accompanied by vehement Court of Auditors criticism. And now suddenly the Ministry of Finance insists that it might be better to become a Baroque museum, namely, how I take away the newspapers, because there are too few parking spaces there. No one has ever registered a need for a Baroque museum before. And this has not happened for good reason, because we in Austria already have a lot too much Baroque, lots of Palais, lots of churches, lots of castles and monasteries. Even the St. Stephen's Church is completely baroque inside. I don't want to talk about the many festivals and the soup bowls, which are also baroque. But what does that mean financially? – This means that, in addition to the 200 million for the reconstruction, it is now necessary to rebuild by 5.6 million and to make 2.5 million annually available for the operation of a Baroque museum. Now I'm wondering, Why can't the operation of a Baroque museum just as much of a more than excellent institution, namely Schönbrunn AG, I will deliberately “be administered” – without additional resources? It doesn't matter. The Minister of Finance has wanted to do so, and you, Mrs Minister, are welcome to thank and to save on the others. Who are the others? – The other ones – Mr Unterplatzer rightly said – are the Volkskundemuseum, which is totally under-dated, the Volkskundemuseum, which is under the protection of the Art History Museum. From the two together could become an independent Federal Museum – an old demand from us. Mr. Sacher, it is wrong that the Volkskundemuseum did not want to be an independent museum, but it just did not want it under the cover of the Art History Museum. You know that very well. I would now like to make a motion for a resolution in the same direction: The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government – in particular the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture – is invited to send a government paper to the National Council, which provides for a revision of the Federal Museum's law to ensure that the Museum of Art as the "Weltmuseum Wien" becomes an independent Federal Museum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14321	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14375	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grünberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14396	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! In this year 2013, we celebrate a anniversary year on the occasion of the 350th anniversary. Birthday of Prince Eugen. As a result, numerous special exhibitions are dedicated to Prince Eugen. As a builder, Prince Eugen not only shaped the city of Vienna and the image of Vienna, but also left us numerous cultural treasures, such as his summer residence, the castle of Belvedere. This can hardly be imagined from today's cultural and art scene. The Belvedere is a success story, which is also recognized in this house. If not only the summer residence, but also the winter residence of Prince Eugen is now made available to the public and made accessible to the public, then only cultural policy can support it. Until 2007, before the Ministry of Finance was transferred to the Hinter Zollamtsstraße because of the General Rehabilitation, these premises were reserved exclusively for the purpose of the Ministry of Finance. The Minister of Finance has now expressed the positive intention, in agreement with the Minister of Culture and the Belvedere, to enable a cultural hotspot in the city centre in these areas, both for tourists and for Austrians. It will no longer cost money, because the Ministry of Finance has already budgeted it and assumes it for the costs. The General Rehabilitation was necessary anyway. Office spaces are also designed and adapted there. For the conversion, €5.7 million is available, which of course are also carried by the Ministry of Finance. If the Belvedere has agreed to make available, on the one hand, baroque treasures, on the other hand, from the collection of the Belvedere artworks, but also for modern art, to create a place and space, this is a trend-setting concept that can also be a point of attraction for young people. And when I remember that not far from the Himmelpfortgasse, in which Johannesgasse, a new literary museum also finds its home, I mean that we are in the center of Vienna, in the 1. Bezirk, have quite an incentive and a point of contact for cultural tourists on the one hand, but also for culturally interested Viennans and for visitors who come from all over Austria on the other. In this context, it would be appropriate to thank the Federal Minister Schmied, but above all the Federal Minister Fekter and also the Belvedere and their director, for having started this project. We're already excited about what the result will look like. And I would be pleased if many colleagues were present at the opening of the exhibition in October.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14442	Next, Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14463	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I think it is very good that these applications have been made, on the one hand, with regard to the public spaces in the Himmelpfortgasse and, on the other hand, with regard to the applications made by Mrs Ingeer concerning the Museum of People's History or the Museum of Folks, because one can very well face the way in which the Red and Black Federal Government distributes the cultural resources in the field of art and culture. Mrs Unterlander mentioned the figures quite correctly, namely: Those museums – you almost have the impression – that do not fit into the left world picture and somehow do not fit into this ideology are fed down with a bet, with a few hundred thousand euros, and for other things you have millions that you throw out at the window in the truest sense of the word. This inequality in cultural policy, which has existed for years, has to be condemned. I should therefore like to appeal to ensure fair allocation and fair use of funds from the cultural budget, regardless of party political opinions and ideological attitudes that may be represented here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Unspoiled.]] Then: This is a wonderful example of massive waste of tax money, to the extent that this is about a three-digit million. First, Mr Pröll, the Minister of Finance, thought that one had to move large in the rear customs road, and then one had to rebuild and rebuild and I don't know what was going on and powdered a total of €200 million. As Mr Zinggl has already said, there was strong criticism from the Court of Auditors. But then one more thing was put on it by saying: Actually, all of this doesn't fit! What do we do with these rooms now? And so you got the idea: Well, if we don't need it, we'll just give it to the Ministry of Culture! This will be an additional baroque museum site or museum space in the city center. I mean, the whole thing is not only a waste of tax money because of the restructuring work that cost a few million euros, but also about the question of being reasonable. Then: What do we need in the city centre of Vienna, ladies and gentlemen, new baroque spaces for viewing where we already have the other museums? So, meaning and purpose of the whole can no one explain to me plausible here, except that a solution has been found in a wrong way for a problem that has caused the ÖVP Finance Minister. This is too bad and too important to me for cultural policy, ladies and gentlemen. As a result, we will reject the request concerning the amendment of the Bundesmuseen Act, namely the allocation to the Belvedere Gallery. And we will agree with Mrs Unterlander's requests for the upgrading and conservation of the Museum of Folks and for the Museum of Folks. Unfortunately, we cannot accept the Greens' motion for a resolution. After all, Mr Zinggl: ‘Weltmuseum Wien’ means: So alone the combination “Welt – Wien” fits, I don’t think. That just sounds terrible! If you think of a better name that is appropriate, we may be able to discuss it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] I think the existing name is still the best. But it is not only a matter of names, but above all that there is an appreciation here by becoming independent museums again and dement- This is also the case with the increase in resources, which means that these institutions will have more budget resources at their disposal. And they deserved.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14523	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied is speaking. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14545	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to say to Mr Zinggl: It is true that on the part of the Ministry of Finance, we will receive an additional budget for the “playing” – under quotation marks – of the grandeurs of the Palais in the Himmelpfortgasse, namely, individual reception and representation rooms. We – this is not the ministry now, but it is concluded here with the Belvedere museum a corresponding contract, because the theme fits into this house. I say it again: It's an additional budget! I don't know how you came to the claim that this will take something away from others. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] I must also say to you that I consider this procedure of the Minister of Finance to be correct and, secondly, transparent, because then we have also incorporated these investments in the art and culture report and because we are also discussing it together. So I don't see at all what there is to be criticised when there is additional budget for additional spaces for art, where exhibitions will take place and where we especially place emphasis on the fact that contemporary artists can also represent their positions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There is also another variant of how funding can take place, namely where this cannot be found in the art and cultural report. I remember, for example, the financing of the music theatre Linz, where there was also funding of the federal government, but at that time it was dealt with through the financial compensation. And here I am, I have to tell you, that this process of a transparent representation is preferable. She also points out that there is a good basis for discussion between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture. And this is important, because the Ministry of Finance is the central establishment, where it is about a good basis of conversation and also about good cooperation. Personally, I am very pleased that we are working so intensively here. Now to the remarks made by Mrs Unterlander, where I am quite simply interested, there are a few things to be made clear. And that's... Design is my foreign currency in education policy, and it is also very well known – and you know that – in the field of art and culture. I'm not someone sitting down and just letting things happen. You know this very well, also from very many discussions and personal discussions. I can remind you of the art communication, the cooperation between artists, cultural institutions and schools that we have initiated. I can recall the many investments, such as the 21st House, the Chamber of Art and the current reorientation of the Museum of Art. I can also remind you that many important management positions could be re-occupied by me and I have taken particular note of the fact that women also come into management positions. We have also enforced free entry for children and young people. We have also created new scholarship programs for artists. In addition, we have raised the artist social security contribution from €1 026 to €1 722. And we have been able to raise the basic salary and also the budgets for the cultural initiatives. At a time when art and culture unfortunately had to be saved in other countries, we succeeded together – and I thank the government partner in particular – to increase the budget for art and culture. I repeat: Especially in a time of budget consolidation, this government has increased the budgets for art and culture! That must also be said! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It's about the treasures of the past, it's about contemporary art, and it's about a clear plea for public funding of art and culture. In 2007, the Federal Budget was €294 million, and in 2013 there will be €346 million. How, Mrs Unterlander, was the development between 2000 and 2006?
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14617	Madam President, I should like to speak now on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14638	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I also refer to the Federal Museum Act in my remarks. Even if the opposition always tries to find reasons to misrepresent this new and interesting solution in the sense of the Austrian cultural landscape, but also in the interest of Austrian tourism, I would like to congratulate you, Mrs Minister, but also our Minister of Finance on this step. As Minister of Culture, I congratulate you on these new premises in one of the most beautiful buildings in the Republic. Already in the committee the objection – and here again again – is that we do not need another Baroque museum, in this area there is already enough, that is just outcast money. – I have to say honestly: Even if tastes are different and Baroque is not the taste of everyone – it's not necessarily mine – our story and, of course, the particularly influential epochs such as the Baroque or the turn of 19th to 20th. ==References====External links== You come to Vienna of history because it is an absolute USP in tourist terms? And it would actually be relatively foolish not to continue playing on this subject, which people are very interested in. And if there is an opportunity like this, namely the reconstruction of a museum, then you should not miss this opportunity to take advantage of it. So congratulations to you, Mrs. Minister, to these new premises. I am also sure that innovative exhibition makers, who are now very many, will also plan very, very exciting exhibitions there. But also a warm congratulation to our Minister of Finance, first of all to the decision to make the public at all, and on the other hand, at a time when we are all looking for new sources of revenue, it would be quite negligent if we did not benefit from this opportunity for further growth in Vienna tourism. On average, growth of around 7 percent is needed so that small businesses can also benefit in order to keep or expand their jobs. However, these 7 percent can only be reached if there are new offers. A further expansion in the hotel industry alone would be too little. That means that more people have to come, and to do that, it simply needs new and interesting offers. This new exhibition space in the Himmelpfortgasse is such a new approach that attracts more visitors, more tourists and therefore also more money It's going to be. This should be in the interests of all of us, but of course in the interest of the Minister for Finance. That is why my congratulations to both ministers. I look forward to new and innovative exhibitions in the rooms of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14684	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14705	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The winter palace has already been well handled: a baroque building. I hope that he will also live up to the builder and founder Prince Eugen. In general it is already to be said that it is not so bad if there is a meeting place here in the Baroque buildings also for contemporary art. Prince Eugen might have wanted it to be just as much. You can't always stand by the status quo. It is a good thing if this is especially a meeting place for contemporary art of Austrian – well-notified: Austrian! – and international artists serve. What has been criticized is – and this is actually the wormhead drop in it; we have heard a lot about unemployment today –: Even if this has been done lawfully, which proves your negotiating skills, it is true that you take in €5.7 million and pay €2.5 million for the current costs. In my opinion, this is a matter that should be thought about today. We will, of course, agree. However, I regret the fact that the two requests have been dealt with by the colleague in the field of land use. I think that if you take the folklore museum here, you have to say, far from ideology debates – and I quote now, the essential thing has been said so beautifully by colleague Untergetter: “Because of its extensive collections and research into the folk art and regional culture of Austria, its neighbouring countries (former chandeliers) and the history of the former monarchy, it is not only the largest of its kind in Europe, but also unique and significant for an important perspective of our history.” Central Europe in particular is looking for a new identity, especially the new states. I think we may not be so well aware of our cultural and historical task. They're looking at us. Let's give them back what our ancestors have gathered here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not understand that it is claimed here that Ideology comes into play, because if one had read the application, one would know what is inside it, namely: “It makes a decisive contribution to cultural analysis, which collects commons, but also differentiations, and thus contributes to the better understanding of one’s own culture.” Where's the ideology you're talking about? I think that is a very global view. A great compliment to Mrs Colleague. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] This also includes the final quote: Whoever saves at this point offers essential cultural values at the cultural level and affects a substantial part of Austrian self-confidence. I would like to change this to the word “identity”. The fact that the applicant is also critical of the so-called World Museum of Vienna is understandable. What does she want? – She wants the Volkskundemuseum to become her own Federal Museum. This address also shares some previous speakers. After the Volkskundemuseum became part of the scientific institution “Kunsthistorisches Museum mit Museum für Volkskunde und Österreichem Theatermuseum”, it has lost its importance as a cultural-scientific museum. This is the applicant's critical point of view. A reorganisation was and is urgently necessary due to the experience that has now been gained. – This is an assignment to politics. The core task of the Museum of Art is in the debate – and again: detideologicalized! – with cultural diversity based on ethnographical and cultural anthropological research. For the name ‘World Museum’: There are also World Championships, but this expression does not fit into a museum of folklore, because there are peoples who have their right, and there are peoples who are honoured and reverent. In summary, you can only say: It is always about maintaining, motivating and using a future visionary, tourist, identity building and educational policy mission. Mrs Bundesminister, I think that if you could change a bit of money, it would satisfy us all. Finally, a quote by Artur Hazelius, the founder of the first open-air museum in Sweden: “The day can come, as all our money is not enough to shape us a picture of the time gone by.” – I add: To win a hopefully prosperous future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14803	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14825	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! A few quotes have already been heard in this debate. I would like to add another one that I particularly like, namely our Minister for Finance. She said at a press conference: “I want to work for people and serve them, as the word of origin includes ‘administratives’ for ministers, and do not reside in these beautiful talking rooms.” Ladies and gentlemen, residing belongs to an earlier policy understanding. Today it's serving. Politicians are supposed to serve people, and that's a good thing. This is also reflected in the present concept. What's this about? – To the seat of the Ministry of Finance in the Vienna Himmelpfortgasse. A lot has already been said about this. The house is made accessible to visitors, with part of the house becoming a museum, while the other part is still available to the Ministry of Finance. Congratulations to the Minister of Finance, congratulations to you, Mrs. Schmied – a great concept! What is particularly important to me as a senior representative is also the question of whether this baroque jewel is also accessible to older people, sometimes disabled people, so whether it is barrier-free. - Yes, most of it. The rooms of the winter palace were designed as far as possible for the renovation. Where construction was not possible, the departments of the Ministry of Finance are now located, which do not have to be accessible to customers. Art and culture are available to everyone and should be accessible and usable to everyone. Therefore, my desire and our goal to make museums and public buildings as accessible as possible in future in the case of renovations and new buildings.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14867	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14888	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The city palace of Prince Eugen is an important Baroque palace in the city centre of Vienna, in the Himmelpfortgasse 8. This is also a good address, because since 1848 she has been home to the Ministry of Finance. After completion of the General Rehabilitation, Mrs. Maria Fekter will make the public's prunksales accessible, and the grand rooms of the winter palace of Prince Eugen of Savoyen will become an important venue and also a place of international encounter of art and artists. This also fits very well with the builder Prince Eugen, who is felt to be an international personality, which can also be read from his collections. Integrated into the Austrian Gallery Belvedere, a place of dialogue between our cultural heritage and contemporary art will be created at the new art site in the city centre of Vienna. You, ladies and gentlemen, all know this concept. That is why my appeal to Mr Zinggl and others, who are trying to play out tradition against modernism: It is a symbiosis of cultural heritage and contemporary art that has proven itself in important art institutions worldwide and is successfully implemented there, as well as in Austria. Thanks also to the Belvedere, especially for the very positive dynamic development in this area. This is also a very well-known art institution, as it is the Belvedere in Austria. With the opening of the fun rooms in the winter palace, the museum landscape in Austria will definitely be enriched, which will benefit art-interested visitors. But above all, the 19-year-olds will benefit, as they have been increasingly found in the Austrian Federal Museums since the introduction of free admission.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e14926	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law amending the Federal Museum Act 2002, together with the title and entry into 2309 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees with this draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign to be given it. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 2310 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall also vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 2311 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Zinggl, colleagues on the Museum of National History as an independent Federal Museum. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. - That's not the majority. Rejected. [[16:08:27]] 7. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1797/A(E) by Mr Stefan Petzner, colleagues, on the increase in national music content on radio (2312 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15023	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15053	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The subject of this request – the increase in the national music share on the radio – has been following us for a long time. There have already been some efforts by the ORF in this regard, I only recall the word “self-commitment”. However, this self-obligation does not work in reality. The applicants refer to the French model, which is a guide for many countries in Europe. There is no good experience in France either. So the radio stations were obliged to – I think the applicants are doing something similar – that at least 60 percent of the broadcast time must be filled with productions of European artists and 40 percent with productions of French interpreters. The 40% will be divided in turn: Half of them are to be available to musicians whose records do not yet play in the "Golden League" to promote them. This regulation contains another point that is worth mentioning, namely that it has been staged according to radio formats. This means, for example, that formats for older target groups have to have a French-speaking music share of 60 percent, while youth formats have only a 35 percent share to meet. In Germany one has already accepted this, in the 1990s. People like Heinz Rudolf Kunze and Herbert Grönemeyer Pate, so no unknown people. Their goal was, among other things, to create a law on a radio quota for a greater variety of songs on the radio. This should serve a cultural enrichment – that is, the opposite of what is argued with us. Another advantage would be the new task that the radio would take over: a trend function. By playing new and unknown singers with their songs on the radio, some of these songs would be on hits A third aspect is that even national artists would have a chance to perform at attractive broadcasting times. Today, the best broadcasting times would be recorded to a large extent by American stars. If you look around in Germany specifically, there is still the cultural mission – this is also a task for Austria! – the public-law channel. A fourth argument is the criticism of the implementation of the so-called cultural mission of public-law stations. The CSU with Mr. Huber and the SPD with Wolfgang Thierse, his sign of former Bundestag President, also meant that German productions must have more opportunities. In our opinion, this also applies to Austria. If you look at the list of the exponents that have supported this, you can see that they are not unknown: Heinz Rudolf Kunze, Konstantin Wecker, Reinhard Mey, Udo Lindenberg – people who clearly chose the quota scheme. This is also reflected in the present proposal. There it is very well formulated: “The promotion of Austrian music productions is intended to give local talents a chance to stand up to more cost-effective productions on radio, mostly from the USA, in order to increase their awareness and thus the sale of their musical works. Austria should no longer be the final highlight of the share of domestic music on the radio.” This also fits into a FPÖ request. It contains AKM data from 2011. 5.7 million tantimes have been collected. The Austrian authors, authors, artists and 5 million went abroad. – I think this is a state we can end. I come to the conclusion: There, where we do not provide sufficient support today, this could cause us a bitter shortage tomorrow. The ORF finally has to carry out its responsible task.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15115	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15136	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is also important for us that Austrian producers, composers and composers are played and promoted on Austrian radio stations. I think our Lady Minister proves to me her cultural policy that she is particularly important for the promotion of young artists. There are a number of support measures for musicians, but also for visual artists. I therefore think that we are very unexpected when it comes to the accusation that we do not want to promote young art. The request made by Mr Petzner goes in the direction that there should be a legal regime which makes it clear that Austrian music productions on Austrian channels need to be played more strongly. The French model is to be applied analogously. Mr Riemer, you know very well that the French model is linked to the French language and that even in France this funding has not been a support for the French music industry, but is really bound to the language, because otherwise it would contradict EU law. If we now make a regulation similar to that in France in Austria, that would mean that we should bind it to the German language. Of course, the larger Germany would have an advantage over smaller Austria, and thus it would not be ensured that Austrian music, Austrian productions actually receive this share that we all want to achieve together. This is the difference between France and Austria. That is why Austria has gone the way for us, together with music producers and the ORF, to have agreed on a separate music charter, so that there is a self-obligation that you have also addressed, which is intended to increase the share of Austrian productions. This Charter has been fulfilled since 2009. [[Abg. Petzner: No, she's not!]] – No, it is not fulfilled, but it has entered into force – now the right word has come to my mind – and it has, of course, increased its share over the last three years, although not yet to the extent that we wish it to be. That is true, Mr Petzner, but there has been an increase, and you also know that this music charter has now received an extension until 2014. An even higher quota has been agreed to take this into account, to promote Austrian producers, musicians and musicians even better in our programmes. I think that's a good way. This is the way that can be achieved in Austria, a way which is carried by all and which is also strengthened by the so-called dialogue body. It is a body that has been occupied in a parity, in which the dialogue is conducted and in which it is looked at how this project can actually be fulfilled together. There is also a very good communication base between the ORF and the music producers, and I am convinced that the Charter II, as it is now called, will also lead to more Austrian music being heard on our radio stations.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15179	Mr Petzner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15200	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a “wonderful” event last weekend that showed how bad it is about the Austrian music industry – and also about the capabilities of the ORF – namely the Eurovision Song Contest. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: Since Udo Jürgens nothing more!]] The Eurovision Song Contest is the largest TV event in the world, the oldest TV format in the world, a total of over 300 million spectators worldwide. If you look at the cut-off of the so-called or alleged cultural nation and the music nation of Austria, you have to ask yourself the question: Why do we always cut off so badly? Now we have become the last one in the previous year, with a song whose title I don't call now, because I don't want to get a call for order, and this day we haven't gone on again and have become more advanced again. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: The question is why you become sixth with the Cats and the Pratzerln!]] I think that this is a wonderful example of how it is actually ordered about the music location Austria. Once we won. When? – 1966 it was, with “Merci, Chérie”. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: You need to know, this is your diploma thesis!]] But it's not about it, but it's about the fact that this event in the present day shows that the country of music Austria, especially as regards modern music, is in a huge developmental crisis and we simply have nothing to offer there. So you have to ask the question why this is so. A key trigger of this music crisis is public-law broadcasting, ladies and gentlemen, because he consistently refuses to allow Austrian pop culture to be represented in his stations. I would like to refer specifically to this music charter which you have referred to. Apart from the fact that the first point is that it is a voluntary commitment, and in recent years it has shown that this voluntary commitment does not hold that at least the targets have not been achieved, one has to see what is precisely stated in this Charter: that on average, over all ORF radio programmes, one wants to reach a quota of 30 percent. In the middle of the previous year, when the validity of this Charter has been extended, it has been increased to 33 percent – but as has been said, spread across all ORF's radio programmes! What to do in practice – and that is exactly what I think is the problem: One screws up the share in the so-called folk music channels massively, while transmitters such as FM4 or Ö3, which actually also represent the pop culture, completely omitted. If you turn on Ö3, ladies and gentlemen, then you will always hear only the English trash – which is programmed somewhere in Hamburg or Berlin, and in Austria it is played – but no local, Austrian pop music. And I think this is very, very sorry, because I think we have very, very many local talented artists and bands that would have deserved to be played on Ö3 too. And in this respect, I believe that this Charter also has a horse foot, and this is not just in this area. Another is also § 6, where funding is also used at the Austrian Music Fund, which is linked to the fee foundation. Now we know that SPÖ and ÖVP refuse the fee refunding and the extension of this fee refunding. So it doesn't look so good with these resources too. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that if I look at the naked figures, data and facts, this Austrian music chart is well meant and perhaps well thought out, but it has not fulfilled its purpose, which it should actually fulfil, and that the targets set have not been achieved. That is why we are also proposing – Mr Riemer has already done it – to lean on the French model. In France, too, a voluntary agreement and Charter have been tried, and in France, too, one has come to realize that this does not work. And that is why a binding quota system has been introduced in France, which has also been made compatible with EU law when it is linked to a support model for the language. This can also be done by Austria to ensure that we are in line with EU law. I do not consider this to be an argument that EU law is not possible at all. I believe that, with some good will, such a quota scheme would be very possible in Austria, according to the French example, and I can call on you to share this with us. I tell you that I have met two people in the last few days: once a very well-known Austrian musician and successful producer, who was also at the Song Contest – not so unsuccessful for Austria, in the 1980s – with whom I also talked about this topic and who also said, no, we need this quota scheme now, because the Charter does not work. And I happen to have met a leading head of FM4 at a local location, that is, a leading ORF employee. I will not risk his job now by calling his name, but I have also talked to him about this problem because he himself makes music and makes Austrian pop music, and he has also given me a right. An ORF employee himself has told me that he too considers this Charter insufficient, and has therefore expressly welcomed our incentive to introduce such a quota scheme according to French example. That is why the appeal: It is not only about promoting the domestic pop culture and the local song material, it is also about protecting and promoting the German, the Austrian language. And I think our language is so beautiful, we have the greatest poets. But we also had a lot of musicians, very successful composers. I wish Austria would remain such a musical nation, not only that we will finally win the Song Contest again, ladies and gentlemen, but also that we will be successful in the international pop market again. – But, well, the theme of Song Contest will still have to be discussed with Mr Wrabetz elsewhere, because before we send someone there who will be the latter again, I am because we do not send anyone anymore. Or you might ask me as a song contest expert; I can guarantee you that we will surely cut off better – Toni Vegas back or forth.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15274	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grünberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15296	Madam President. High house! I would like to hold on to something because I also find it exciting what Mr Petzner has just said. He said – and this has nothing to do with the music ratio – that we have not won the Song Contest all the last few years, we have nothing to offer, and in fact we are in a developing country as far as music and music productions are concerned. [[Abg. Petzner: You have to change that again!]] - Well, that's already strong tobacco! [[Call members of the BZÖ:Tobak! Tobak!]] And in truth, this is also an attack on Austrian musicians. [[Abg. Petzner: I said the ORF is responsible!]] Well, you said before, they don't bring anything together, we won't win anything, and we're in the final effect bad. [[Abg. Amon: Maybe the Parliamentary chair should take place?]] This has nothing to do with a music ratio, by the way, and I disagree with that. I think, for example, when I think about the last Amadeus and the very good, qualified young musicians, that we shouldn't have bad words here. The intention to support Austrian musicians is positive. Only: Why does the comparison with France not work? – French interpreters compose and develop their music in French. Unfortunately, this does not apply to Austrian musicians. The majority of Austrians have English lyrics. And that's why it goes beyond the goal of putting it down to the German language. It would not encourage Austrian musicians to do so. And with regard to the way in which you think about it, perhaps to the nation, that is to say to refer to the principle of origin, there are already, very likely, explanations from the EU that it is not in conformity with the law to prefer the nation here. That is, a stop at the Austrian-Sein is not possible by law. In this sense, the voluntary commitment of 30 percent first and now 33 percent is the best approach. It is also true that over-fulfilment of the quota is carried out exclusively by the Landesstudios, and also by Ö1, and that Ö3 has at least a need for follow-up. It is important that politics supports ORF and the music industry in this way and of course also critically looks at compliance with the music charter. At present, we are on a good path, and that is what I believe we are doing.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15369	I call Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15390	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Petzner, a great request! I have to say that he is going absolutely in the right direction, especially as regards what we have referred to earlier. – I would like to congratulate my previous speaker, Mrs Fuhrmann and now Mrs Grünberger, also very warmly on the wedding, as well as the Geri Grosz. Because two of the people here have married, and I am very pleased. [[Abg. May. Grünberger: (in the direction of Abg. Yes, but not the two of us!]] This request also goes in the right direction, when there is not only a song contest once a year, where we want to win something, but it is also about local artists and local singers who also want to survive. [[Abg. Petzner: That was just an example!]] That is, I think, the right step. We have the problem here that we have tried with this quota, with the commitment of ourselves, and - we have only recently discussed it in the Committee, and Mrs Grünberger has rightly mentioned it - that it simply does not work with it. And that's why I don't care if an artist sings German, English or Italian when he's Austrian. You just have to see that you're going to expand a little bit. In principle, the French model is a good model. One cannot take over one, we know, but one can create incentives in such a way that the local artists have a chance to stand on the market again. Falco said it right: Do I have to die first to live? – That was exactly the same thing: Ö3 never played Falco, and when he was dead, the big Falco hype was created in Austria. I think we have to ask ourselves a little bit about how to deal with Austrian and Austrian artists like Ö3 in particular. That's where the motto is: Just because they are not so “in” anymore, we do not play them until midnight!? – I think we heard that before. We do not want anything but that the Austrian artist, who makes a great contribution to Austrian music creation, is also played at times where he is also heard. Only when it is heard will the records or the CDs or whatever are purchased. That is why, Mrs Minister, we have to consider one thing: Song Contest, that's all good and right and beautiful. I like the fact that you have a heart for young people, too. But we have a variety in Austria, and this diversity is also expressed in pop music or wherever. And that is why I would like this proposal, which is absolutely correct, to be supported in the same way that we all join in confessing what we are, namely, a nation of culture, a country of music. And that is why we can also insist that we have Austrian artists who also have the right to survive.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15448	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15470	We will not vote in favour of this request, for a simple reason, Mr Petzner: The music industry – we have already heard it – has composed with the ORF and has made arrangements in the sense of a voluntary commitment for 2013. So our task is more or less done. If the deal is not observed, it needs a law of its own. That would be an ORF law, and it will probably be negotiated in a larger framework. I'm sure I can do it. See your interest in pop music, especially since you were so interested in Udo Jürgens. But I think there is a very different point where we should start with pop music, and these are tours that are not financed, these are missing sampling spaces and, above all, the missing copyright. And for that we will also work in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15500	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish for a final word. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 2312. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[16:32:05]] 8. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (2299, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Aviation Act and the Amendment 2166/A(E) by Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek, Members of Parliament, on the amendment of the Aviation Act to regulate unmanned aircraft and equipment (2349 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15557	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mrs. Dr. Moser's speech. - Please. [[Abg. Brosz: (pointing to the government bank) Where is the Federal Minister?]] Excuse me, one second! - As you want! [[Abg. Dr. Moser is taking the floor.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser understands the desire to wait for the arrival of the competent Federal Minister, and leaves the speaker's desk again.]] Okay, then I'll just interrupt the meeting until Mrs. Federal Minister comes.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15611	I'll start the interrupted session again. The Federal Minister is present, so we can also start. I call Mrs Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15644	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Aviation Act, Mrs. Minister, makes a big bow – perhaps also the reason for your satisfaction – around the main problem of the population with aviation. This is because many people are disturbed by the arrivals and departures of air transport in their health, sleep. The problem for the public in the field of aviation is the noise problem. This noise problem, however, is in no way disincentived or even addressed by this law, by the present government proposal. Mrs Minister, we have already very much appreciated in the Committee that EU directives are now finally being implemented. We have also acknowledged that the regulations for the hospital helicopter platforms are being made. Also in the direction of drones and model aircraft, this law brings positive, yes. But when it comes to the main problem, the problem of noise protection, noise protection, it remains completely “behind the traffic jams”. It remains in the cover, as nothing will be improved, because even – you can read it carefully in the explanations – you can point out that the so-called Immission Loads – Air Noise and Pollutant Emissions – are not able to carry out a clear, generally satisfactory assessment, namely by technical means. But the task for us in Parliament is not that we offer technical solutions to problems, so to speak, but we are invited to make political solutions. And that's where you're pressed, Mrs. Minister. Finally, I call for a political solution to the problem of air noise protection. This is actually the command of the Hour – and not the withdrawal of the technical non-decision. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Especially in the explanations, it is also pointed out that the solution can bring participatory procedures. . I want to know where we have a participatory procedure in the general daily noise. Nowhere! We have a participative procedure for the third run, but this mediation is only partial, but not in the case of other daily loads. That is why, unfortunately, this law is not portable for us and we must also vote against it. We still know some other criticisms: The data protection regulation is suboptimal. The fragmentation of the government landscape is legendary – the district chief teams are still responsible for the airfields. And the outsourcing of various agendas to the relatively expensive Austro Control is also criticized by us: Why doesn't BMVIT do that? There is a civil aviation authority that could make it much cheaper for the aviation industry – my view is towards ÖVP – especially for the aviation industry. No, you say the Austro control is still supposed to handle this. And that's where it gets expensive. Therefore, clearly a No to this template from your hand. We would have further wishes – I can only mention them – where you don't do anything: In the case of fuel taxation – as Mrs Fekter would also ask – when it comes to the issue of ticket prices in the direction of emissions, when it comes to the question – this is also exciting, Mrs. Fekter is also in demand here – basic tax exemption from airports. The ÖBB are not exempt from land tax, although they are much more environmentally friendly, but airports – with all parking spaces, with all huge parking spaces – are ground tax-free. This misunderstanding should also be addressed in a different context; it is certain that the financial sector will be needed in the first place. But Your place has failed when it comes to the basic problem of the cardinal problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15705	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15726	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Gabriela Moser, true is: Our Minister of State Bures does not press for anything at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is true, however, ladies and gentlemen, that the last adaptation of the aviation law has been over five years ago, and due to the fast-moving technology and, above all, the new EU directives in this sector, a revision of this law is essential. In particular, civil aviation has increased considerably in recent years, and the new law distinguishes between private and commercial use of so-called unmanned aircraft. The group of hobby pilots may use their aircraft only free of charge and not commercial. In addition, they may be operated within a radius of 500 metres, except, of course, the model aircraft remain. In commercial use, the drones are divided into two classes. Class 1 deals with aircraft that have visual contact with the controllers, and Class 2 does not have visual contact. The novelle, ladies and gentlemen, provides that the flights with unmanned aircraft in Class 2 will now be treated equally – and that is very important – as well as manned aircraft. This means, in addition, that a pilot's licence and a flight certificate are required for the control of unmanned objects used by commercial aircraft. Furthermore, any commercial use of such an aircraft under the Data Protection Act shall be subject to the most protected interests of confidentiality. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, every flight has to be notified to the Data Protection Commission, which also creates even more protection of the privacy of each individual. Ladies and gentlemen, a fundamental consideration of this law is to protect the privacy of people. As mentioned earlier, technology in the field of civil aviation is very fast-paced and is developing more and more rapidly. Many of these objects are equipped with high resolution cameras. This, of course, can also mean a significant interference in privacy. Imagine such an aircraft equipped with a high resolution camera flying over a settlement and photographing and filming the gardens and houses of the inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not to be blamed for the fact that such actions are not suspected. The new law therefore creates legal certainty for citizens and ensures operational safety of aircraft. Another major change, which the Novelle provides, regulates the legal framework for the helicopter landings of hospitals. A special civil aviation permit will be introduced in the future. There will now be a uniform administration for other airports. The contact point is Austro Control GmbH, which acts as a central reporting point and accepts the problem notifications. In the future, there will also be a ban on dangerous laser classes, which, for example, could blind pilots on landing. This is another important step towards air safety. Another point of the novel provides that the provisions on the climbing classes of boiler balloons, dragons and small air balloons are specified. Ladies and gentlemen, this legislative novel not only creates a legal framework, but also addresses the needs of the people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] I'm really sorry, Gabriela Moser, that the greens of this new law can't agree. It is important to take priority into account the privacy, data protection and also aviation safety and legal certainty in this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15775	Mr Haubner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15796	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In terms of content, Mr Heinzl has already described very in detail what this novelle is all about. But maybe in general: Aeronautics are already a very important, crucial factor for Austria's economic location, and it is always important that we: measures for airports with the population. The noise is a component that needs to be taken into account. However, I believe that it is very important, especially in times like this, for an economic location, to have national and international connections, especially for a tourism country like Austria. I can bring some examples from my own experience from Salzburg. Salzburg as a tourist country is very much dependent on our Salzburg airport. And it is also very pleasant to see that the airport is not only a hub for traffic, but also an important employer in the region. At Salzburg Airport, for example, almost 350 people are employed, and at least they achieve a total turnover of € 53 million per year. This is also an economic factor which is crucial for a region. Ladies and gentlemen, when I talk about all the aviation, it is in Austria that we have been able to increase passenger numbers by 60 percent since 2000. And we are not only successful in passenger air transport, but also in freight air transport, where we transported 250 000 tonnes in 2010. I believe that infrastructure policy is an important factor for local policy, and the European Union's transport forecasts and, of course, our Austrian experts tell us that we need further and that we will need further expansion by 2050, as freight traffic will rise by around 80 percent and passenger transport by around 50 percent. We therefore need a high-performance transport infrastructure, the expansion of comprehensive mobility for businesses and reliable policy conditions that do not endanger international competitiveness. We have already discussed this in detail this morning. I believe that if five parties today agree to this innovation, we are on the right path that we are also taking the right measures and continuing to advance the economic location of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15844	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15866	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the parliamentary history of this law, you have to say first: It's important and right that it came. In air traffic, there can and must not be legal uncertainty, no players, no possibilities, but only legal facts. The second thing that has been noticed is the following: I have long been reading so many comments and comments in no review procedure. But this time, and this is the positive thing that could either be clarified or corrected by changes. And that's the second positive point. Why is it necessary? – For example, the clarifications already mentioned, what flight models, what unmanned aircraft are to simply watch traffic, the environment or the like through cameras. A flight model on a flight model site has quite different tasks. This is fun and similar, and the others can be quite firm civil interests. An equally important point is the civil aviation permits or the regulations we need for helicopters at hospitals. Another important point is that we no longer need approvals for the commercial transport of hangers and paragliders. I think it is right that this very subject should be dealt with with with by the Members of this House, who have some strict regulations, because, finally, it is also about the lives of the persons concerned. However, as Mrs Moser has said, let me also turn to a less political point, let us say a legal-technical point. The Austro Control is an organisation that becomes a reporting or testing body more than before. The Austro Control – documented in many, many requests from me and also from colleagues – is still a construction site, and it is therefore urgently necessary, Mrs. Federal Minister, that the ACG will soon become an efficient, well-functioning company, which separates us from administrative tasks, which we separate with the weather service, and so on. But if we are already in general political considerations: Mrs Moser, this law can and will not regulate the history of the third runway. And, Mrs Moser, I find it quite strange to take, among other things, the third track and the flight noise in Vienna as an argument of rejection, because there you would have to act quite differently in Vienna! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Moser, what was in Vienna? The Greens have rejected all the requests made by the liberals against the noise of the air. Is that a line? – Oh, yes, absolutely right, one would like to say this time the Oho from the ÖVP directive. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] What does it look like in Tyrol? – The ÖVP was always very clear for the Brenner base tunnel. What about the greens? – Since they are in the government, they have to be state-bearing and tipping around the Brenner base tunnel like a bag of rice in China. That's ridiculous! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] There you can really see how the greens are: First of all, propaganda is made – and afterwards they fall over. And there too: If you were serious about the flight noise, you would have to do something different than vote against this law. You should have done something in Vienna's Landtag, because you should have done something in the so-called participative procedure. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You left the people alone, and you could have agreed to this law in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15933	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e15965	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The administrative responsibilities for airports are now generally harmonised with this Aviation Act. Provisions for unmanned aircraft and equipment are also simplified. The current legal situation is that unmanned flight models, aircraft according to the aviation law, must be qualified as an aircraft. Airworthiness certification includes a registration requirement, a pilot certificate for the taxpayer, compliance with the air traffic rules, and so on. That would blow the dimension. We from the BZÖ have made our own request. I am glad that, with this government proposal, he is now also implementing a modern and modern aviation law. which also provides for regulations for unmanned aircraft and aircraft. Provisions according to the requirements of technological development are included and ensure that aviation safety is also ensured. For a number of years, unmanned aircraft have become increasingly important, on the one hand, for military use, on the other hand, but also for civil use for architectural and landscape images, as well as for environmental and transport monitoring, or for sporting events, as well as for private events such as weddings and birthdays. In the Government template, this important area of the Aviation Act is re-regulated and simplified. We welcome this measure, Mrs Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen, because legal uncertainty with the operation of flight models and unmanned aircraft is now being eliminated and solved quite simply.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16007	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16028	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I can assume that the Stronach team will also agree with this novel. This government template is a reasonable matter. It has already been tailor-made by my colleagues, and unmanned objects are accordingly included in the law that a pilot ticket is not needed to control a drone. A small example: If you imagine there are film shots with a drone that is operated remotely, then it used to be airborne, that is, you had the same conditions as if you were directing an airplane. It is not to be seen that a remote-controlled object is moving around today, that you have to have a pilot's license – that is, a reasonable improvement. The same applies to helicopters flying civilian hospitals, as there have been problems. There's a new permit, so there's also an improvement. Many improvements will be included in this law, and that is why we will agree. Now on another subject addressed by the Greens, the noise of air. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the plane is the safest transport there is in the world, and if we look now, all of you inside here, I also use the plane relatively often: If we fly on vacation or are on a business trip or anything. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Where to?]] Of course, we also use it on parliamentary journeys, and there are the greens not on foot, but on the plane. You also have to address this once if you bet against the plane and against the noise. I know it's not pleasant. If you live in a snow in flight, it is of course relatively loud. But there are laws that protect people from it. I live myself in an area where there is a snowfall, where on the one hand it goes to Munich, on the other hand is the mini-airport Altenrhein in Switzerland, which I am very happy to use myself, and also Friedrichshafen. You get used to it, but I know it's not all perfect there. We should also give people the best possible protection. But I say, my dear Greens: Come in front of your own door! – otherwise, Mr Pilz would not fly to any events where he likes to take sightseeing tours sponsored by Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] Or Mrs Moser, when you go to international congresses, where you are sent by Parliament, or the OSCE, or I know what, you don't always drive by train, but also fly back and forth! I don't think you think so. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: I never fly privately at all! I'm on the train! I went to Warsaw by train, I went to!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Mrs Moser, I want You don't attack personally now, I'm just saying it as an example. I know you often ride by bike or by train, but occasionally you also use the plane. And remember, it's the safest transport, it's an important economic branch for Austria as a tourist country. We have a lot of tourism. Many tourists come by plane. You have to take all of this into account. There are a lot of people living on it, it's a big industry, and you have to see that too. I can't always be against everything, even if I use it myself afterwards. But you are right, you have to allow the greatest possible protection for the citizens. By law, we have good rules, they are also inside here, there are improvements here, and therefore I also believe that the Greens could agree with good conscience. We certainly agree. Five parties do, the Greens don't, okay, let's take note. You can be against anything, even if you use it yourself.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16096	Mr Hagen, I can only say: At the expense of Parliament's management, no one is flying for sightseeing in this House, and I pay great attention to this. I expressly hold that! – No, you too are wrong, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Grosz: I read that a Miss Austria was once on the road to parliament costs!]] Mrs. Bures is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16131	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is important to point out the importance of an airline location, regardless of who benefits from individual or professional mobility, because of course it is closely related to the economic location, to tourism and also to the employment of a country. That was also the reason why I decided to develop a “road map aeronautics” with all stakeholders, i.e. 30 in the aviation industry, namely a strategy to hold a strong aviation location in Austria and also the Hub Vienna. We are therefore in close cooperation, not only with the airports, but also with the airlines to implement the “Road Map Aviation” with this strategy that we have developed. Today's decision-making – and I'm going to take a short look at this – shows a number of approaches that we really do implement this strategy. Air transport is facing dramatic challenges in Europe. But if you take the figures alone, you can see that in 2012 almost 27 million people flew from Austrian airports or landed there. And it is true that in Austria alone, around 54,000 people are directly or indirectly employed in aviation and generate a value added of €4 billion annually. There are 240 Austrian companies that are active in the field of aircraft construction, supply, also in the field of aviation research, where Austria has a very high priority. I think this economic aspect is really essential, but, ladies and gentlemen, I am of course aware of the fact that such an aviation location also poses other problems and that there are problems that must not be forgotten in this context. And that is why I can only assure you, and I also think it is a great concern to relieve the population of Immissions – whether noise or CO2 in connection with aviation. And that is why we must work to create a balance of interests between these important economic factors for the country of Austria, which on the one hand is a country of culture and tourism, but on the other hand, of course, there are also the interests of people who do not want to be harassed by noise and where there is a desire for peace. And that's exactly what's going on in this notch. This is precisely what will become clear here, if we first make a legal requirement in today's decision-making, which must be taken into account when determining flight routes on the lowest immissions, so that flight routes are taken in such a way that there is as little noise as possible for people and even as little CO2 emissions as possible. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Then please write it in, this minimization bid!]] That's something we can decide today. This applies to all arrivals and departures in Austria, but this also applies to the route flights. [[President Neugebauer is taking over again.]] Therefore, I am very glad that we decide today, in addition to all the other measures already mentioned, such as unmanned aviation in the civil field, with regard to the use of drones, including the data protection provisions that Mr Heinzl has mentioned. And it is about that, with the latest aviation technology, we can, of course, also contribute to noise emissions to prevent CO2 emissions in aviation. Let me just mention three examples where we are going to adopt new regulations today: a special civil aviation permit for helicopters' hospitals, new regulations in the field of ultralight aircraft, paragliders, paragliders, paragliders, and the ban on lasers that may hinder pilots on arrivals and departures, because they lead to glares. I think this is a matter that we could decide together to reconcile the interests of people between economic interests and people's needs. And I would like to thank you now for the broad support that at least the speakers have given.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16171	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16192	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this draft law as an opportunity to point out immediately that our parliamentary group has a follow-up to it. It is very important and responsible for transport policy and we support it. In 2008, there has been the last comprehensive change in the Aviation Act, and since then there have been many current developments within the European Union, and we will now transfer them into national provisions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Apart from this, special regulations are being re-established – some have already been addressed today – such as the so-called flight models and unmanned aircraft, in order to solve up-to-date difficulties and uncertainties in legal classifications. Currently, these objects use the airspace – essentially without specifications regarding technical specifications and rules of conduct. This innovation is now expressly setting out criteria to ensure the operational safety of these aircraft. However, there must also be security in the area of data protection. It should be noted that, for example, when recording photos and videos from the air, the same regulations apply under the Data Protection Act as on the ground. I have two more points to make: On the one hand, this novel – some ladies and gentlemen have already mentioned this – will be a new regulation for the approval of helicopter landing areas in hospitals, which may be used exclusively for ambulance and rescue operations. In order to ensure that such areas do not have to comply with all the provisions applicable to other civil aircraft, but differing requirements, which take into account the specificities of such areas, can be used. However, the interest in aviation safety must also be taken into account in this case. What has also been re-regulated is the processing of safety-related information from events in civil aviation, where the Austro Control now holds this central reporting point. Ladies and gentlemen! This novel provides for a carefully balanced balance between the interests of all those involved, to whom we will also give our consent from our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16243	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16265	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to say that this is a very comprehensive and, in general, excellently successful novel of the Aviation Act, so I can sincerely congratulate you and especially your employees. I also find it particularly important that in future hospitals should facilitate the approval of helicopter landing sites. For example, we in Tyrol in the valleys have a relatively big problem with the approval of helicopter landing sites even if such departures and landings are very, very rare or necessary. The new rules have already been addressed by many previous speakers. I would just like to reply to Mr Deimek and tell him that his colleague, Mr Hauser – whether or not the FPÖ in Tyrol – is just as for the Brenner base tunnel, as is fortunately the greens at the moment – only if there is a misunderstanding here. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: It's not about that! ... against it!]] And to Mrs. Moser: I wanted to prepare myself for the speech now and have found some things. I wanted to goug and see what press releases and suggestions are available on minimizing air noise from you. And somehow it was funny, because I was so far away that I entered: Greens want to, and then the following proposals – and this has a background – came: Greens want to abolish; Greens want to brake; Greens want to abolish; Greens want to question; Greens want to ban; Greens want to limit; Greens want to ban. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] – It’s always the same. For the Greens, it is best for every problem to ban something, best to eliminate something, to establish a working group or to question someone in the extreme emergency. – That’s why the issues that transport policy has to solve are not dealt with. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I am fully aware that many people suffer from the traffic noise and especially the noise of the air. I can't just talk about that. It would, however, be completely lying to Mrs. Moser, to pretend that it is in the power of the Federal Minister or in any power, that the noise of flying is half-way – half-way! – minimise the functioning aviation situation in Austria in such a way that no one feels disturbed at all. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Look,... and the flight routes change, that would be two very important...!]] Now I know – I have taken this from your speech message – that you do not like to fly. They're going anywhere on the train. You don't even know what you're missing in other world regions! I am glad that this is different for many people, because that extends the look, and it is incredible to visit other continents from time to time. I wish you the grace to be friends with the plane so far as to move to Africa, perhaps to the United States, to see how big the world is and how important it is that we also remain connected via aircraft. I wish you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16340	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16361	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the end of this item on the agenda, I should like to take another opportunity to point out the problem which has already been raised several times today, namely those relating to flight models and unmanned flight objects, and perhaps also to make a small criticism in this context, because these objects – depending on how they are acquired and also equipped – do not raise questions of aviation safety or public safety, but also – and this has already been addressed several times today – issues of data security, data protection, which may sometimes also give rise to significant interference in the personal rights of those concerned. Although the law refers to the provisions of the Data Protection Act, there is a problem, and that is practically the drops of advertising. We will certainly give our consent to this legal provision, but a better one. I would like to express my wish here that the specific dangers associated with the use of such objects, as has been usual in other legal provisions, or ever more often handled, should also be written down in concrete terms in the law – in this case the three issues relevant from the point of view of data protection, namely first: Under what legal conditions can such image transfers be carried out, such records with these unmanned objects?, the second question is: To what extent can they be recorded?, and the third question is: Who is responsible for the deletion if they are no longer needed or are not admitted? These three points would certainly have been a fine rounding off of this legal provision, because in the latter consequence only so that the data interests of the data subjects can be guaranteed, but on the other hand, an adequate sanctioning is possible if either recordings have been made with such aircraft that were illegal, or if such recordings have been made beyond the permitted extent. In this sense, I hope that this suggestion will perhaps come into this law next time, even though, as has been said, we will at least give our consent to this government proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16400	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16422	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! With the revision of this law, we contribute very much to the security of the site in Austria. I am happy as a Lower Austrian, since the airport It is not one, but the largest farm and employer in our federal state that these provisions will also benefit him. But of course I am also happy for my home town in the immediate vicinity of the city of Wiener Neustadt, with a military airport, with a private airport, with model airport. – All of this is here, also paraglider on the high wall. Of course, we are particularly pleased to see all these reductions in the risks, the legal changes, as we have finally found regulations in the tourism sector, but also in the economic sector, which ensure safe air transport. However, I would also like to address a second point, namely the initiative, Mrs Bundesminister, which you support and which you have also announced in the media, namely the broadband offensive and also the expansion of mobile communications facilities in rural communities by auctioning frequencies. At least 500 million are expected, half of which will go into rural areas. I already have a few communities behind me in this regard and have spoken before you, and I hope that in September – after the auction – we will be able to find a solution to satisfy these concerns of the communities, because it is simply necessary for rural areas to take action in the context of site policy. In this respect, I am very happy and thank you for the initiative that has been taken so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16467	There is no longer any further mention of this matter. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 2299 of the supplements. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of this draft to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. If you also agree to this draft at third reading, I ask you for your sign. – This is decided by a majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. [[17:15:04]] 9. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1895, e.g._Other Organiser Contracts of the World Post Association (Genf 2008); Eight additional Protocols on the Statute of the World Postal Association; First Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Organisation; World Post Treaty and Final Protocol; Agreement on postal payment services (2350 d.a.) 10. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1906, e.g._Other Organiser Amending instruments of the Statutes of the International Telecommunications Union and of the Treaty of the International Telecommunications Union, Geneva 1992, as amended by the Conference of Governmental Plenipotentiaries (Kyoto 1994), the Conference of Governmental Plenipotentiaries (Minneapolis 1998), the Conference of Governmental Plenipotentiaries (Marrakesh 2002) and the Conference of Governmental Plenipotentiaries (Antalya 2006), and Declarations and Reservations (2351 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16522	We come to points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Oh, no, no, Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16550	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! These two agenda items concern, on the one hand, the contract of the World Post Association and, on the other, the Statute of the Telecommunications Union, and now the parliamentary procedure is needed. I will only deal with the World Post Association in the short speaking time available to me. This is about the same age as this building, the Austrian Parliament: ==References====External links== [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] At that time, the aim was to ensure the worldwide postal service and exchange of international mail, because all of this was at the beginning. The postal services were intended exclusively for one's own country at the time, and that's why international rules were needed. At present, the Union comprises 192 Member States and, of course, over the decades everything has changed and new decisions have always had to be taken. This time the execution no longer costs us: We pay € 128 000 in membership, and that is not changed. Interesting is the following passus that I noticed – I can quote: ‘Member States or the authorised operators must “provide” for the development and practical implementation of a dynamic strategy in the sense of a specific environmental, social and economic development at all levels, and so on. Societies have come to my attention. I would now like to lose a few words in connection with the post-discussion, which burns up again and again and again, and where it is not always 100 percent best with honesty, if I only imagine what the Tyrolean AK President writes – a representative of the ÖVP, who then often rejects himself as such again and again over and over again over the ÖVP, and then he is again in the Committee for Head of State Platter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] It warms in the highest tones for the post: This is a “health care ” and very important. I quote literally from a letter: “It cannot be assumed that a company such as Österreichische Post AG will only declare profit maximisation at the expense of its employees and the branch network as the top target.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Yes, if I look at the chronology in connection with the post, then it started in 1996, and it's culminated in black and blue – I'm so sorry when I look in this direction. Then it came to the 2006 stock exchange, and now it is just like we have a three-part responsibility: among other things, the ÖIAG – which will always be kept silent – is where the Minister of Finance is responsible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Linder.]] However, when it is discussed in the public debate by many representatives, BMVIT alone is responsible, but our minister has very probably repaired the last universal service regulation, which was possible in the context of these possibilities. And so it always comes back to the fact that maximizing the profit is the top goal. The last dividend was 1,80 € per piece, and with that the shareholders are satisfied. Recently I heard in a discussion: Shareholders satisfied. Clients and staff are stunned. That's the way capitalism must taste! This is not the view of us from the SPÖ. We are opposed to further privatisations and will try to prevent this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16638	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16659	Mr President. Federal Minister! I have a bad time preparing my speeches, because I have to say something different every time I've done it. I believe that, after the honourable Member's speech, it is not bad to take a brief look at what our post used to look like, and to take a look at what it looks like today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I think everyone understands that, in times when letter traffic has simply declined radically, because we have e-mail because we have social media, because transfers are also made electronically, the entire postal world is changing. It may not be gratifying, but nevertheless necessary that the so-called post official in the earlier required number can be simply and grippingly no longer employed, because the number of letters today is only one hundredth of what was to be carried out earlier. - So far, so good. At the post I sometimes have gradual, I have to say quite honestly that some post office closures did not like either, but you could talk to the representatives of God mostly thank you. In any case, the post has had to undergo an understandable shrinking process in the branch network. I am very glad that we in Tyrol, for example, where the situation is certainly much more difficult than in Vienna, have been able to find excellent solutions in countless communities with partners. If the post partner in the supermarket around the corner is in the small community instead of in the neighboring community, if the post has only opened there in the morning all day during the opening hours of the post partner, then this is an added value. Everywhere, where immediately, as with me personally at home, the post is locked in front of the door and it is now 200 meters on foot to reach the next post office, of course, it is more difficult. I do not see a double responsibility at all, Mr Commissioner, because the ÖIAG is the owner and the Federal Minister and the BMVIT make proposals for laws and are responsible for the administration within which we ratify the Additional Protocol to the Statute of the World Postal Association, which is also concluded by it today. This is the question of the Ministry having to of course regulate how cross-border mail traffic works, how individual postal administrations work together, and in particular what new transport needs exist. The contract to be concluded today, for example, regulates what special arrangements must be made for the transport of radioactive material, especially in the disposal of radioactive substances from the University of Innsbruck to Seibersdorf, where errors appear to have occurred and two people have unfortunately been irradiated. That is to say, all these regulations are of constant topicality, are important, and we are very pleased today to give our support to them. I'm sure a little less state hasn't hurt the post so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16724	Next speaker: Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16745	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can come back to the agenda. We're talking about the World Post Association today, not the post office closures. With today's decision, we ratify the Eighth Additional Protocol on the Statute of the World Postal Organisation, the First Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Association; World postal contract with the final protocol and the postal payment service agreement. Mr Hakl, if you had read the agenda or the request, you would have seen that it is no longer a postal administration in the future, but a postal service. ==References== This is also reflected in this decision. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] The postal administration is no longer there. The Congress Decision took place in Geneva 2008. Originally, Kenya was planned as a convention place, but for security reasons the conference was then moved to Geneva. This Congress attended 1,500 delegates from 191 Member States. It's interesting that there are 1,500 delegates over the period of three weeks, namely of 13. ==References== September, these important protocols were adopted, which we are now ratifying here five years later. In the meantime, 2 000 delegates again took place on 25 June. Congress held in Qatar, from 24. ==References== October 2012, and the positive thing for us is that the Austrian Post was elected after 18 years to the POC, that is Postal Operations Council, and we now have one of 40 votes there. There were 17 candidates for six European seats. This Decision will improve the international cooperation of the Post Office. This is why we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16793	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16815	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! We too, of course, agree with the two international agreements, no question, these are essential areas. Let me follow a comment by Mr Rädler. Well, broadband is also the future. The communication sector will shift, yes, has already shifted from letter, hardware, paper mail to electronic, and I am also pleased that, Mrs Minister, you are now seeking to advance the expansion of this broadband initiative in rural areas through the proceeds to be expected from the auction of free frequencies. I even agree that we also want to use parts of this proceeds to improve the housing situation. Mrs Minister, we have a relatively broad consensus. However, when it comes to the specific supply, Mrs Hakl – in line with your statements on postal services – I would like to take you to the floor and simply compare what it used to be, I say ten years ago, and as it is now, it is the following for me: I used to get the mail at 8 or 9 o'clock. Now I get the mail, if I'm lucky, at 2 or 3 o'clock. In the past, three mailboxes were within reach. Now hardly any more is a mailbox within reach. In the past, a post office was across the street as you describe it. Now the way to the mailbox is ten times longer. One can not only speak of privatisation, nor of where the post is only partially privatized. It is less than 50 percent on the stock exchange, but under the pressure of the stock exchange listing, the concrete situation in classical postal services has significantly deteriorated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl]] You have to hold that. Mrs Minister, you have only pulled the lines through a universal service regulation, which we have also criticized, where I think the number of postal boxes is too low. That the opening hours of the postal partners are certainly some cheaper, but the overall service is less, you have recorded everything in the Universal Service Regulation. I already have an eye to at least comply with what is minimum standard. This minimum standard would have to be improved, because I do not understand that the people who now work at Post AG have a lot of work load on what they used to have. That's a bad situation. This has been a depreciation of quality. I don't even want to talk about the postmen who are necessarily sentenced to a non-stop, who are outsourced, while at the same time recruiting people who serve the sorting plants at low-cost rates. It's also a misdevelopment and a misdevelopment under your aegide. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's what the predecessors have infiltrated, and you're going to keep it going. So much only on the subject of postal services and on the upcoming international contracts. I'm still remembering: Previously I also mentioned a concern of the population, and that was minimization of the flight noise. I want that, and I'm on that pult for it. And there I, like I mean, also have some in your ranks behind me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16878	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16899	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The activities of the Post Office have already changed a lot as far as the distribution centres are concerned, but also away from the postal offices to the postal partners. There's a lot of things already done. But this is not the subject that we are now dealing with, but we are now dealing with contracts of the World Post Association. These treaties also regulate postal services between 192 Member States. The organisations are, as it were, also the legal basis for this. This World Post Association is a special organization of the United Nations. The current membership contributions to be found there amount to around € 128 000, remain unchanged and are equally supported by the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology and Austrian Post AG. We will give our approval to this, as will all the other groups in this House, but we will also give our consent to the instruments of amendment of the Statutes of the International Telecommunications Union and the Treaty of the International Telecommunications Union. Indeed, an Intergovernmental Conference took place in Guadalajara in Mexico in 2010, where amending instruments containing provisions on the choice of the contribution classes of Member States and sector members were adopted. For Austria, nothing changes in this area, so to speak, everything remains the same – that is why we agree here.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16930	Mrs Bures is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16951	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This law concerns the ratification of international treaty agreements. However, I am very grateful for the debate on competences and competences, because I am Little has the impression that there is no clarity about these qualifications, which, however, is very important to me. As far as the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure is concerned, you have already described making legislative framework laws. All that concerns strategic orientation, operational measures, the question of employees, the implementation and compliance with this legal directive is the ÖIAG and the owner's representative, but in this case is the Ministry of Finance. I am not saying this in order to shift responsibility, which is the last thing I do, but because I believe that when there are suggestions, as far as a labour law issue is concerned in a company that you have tailored, it is important that you turn to the right place. So for everything relating to the Austrian Post AG strategic orientations, plans or operational measures, there is no competence in my area. But I was responsible for laying down a framework in the Austrian postal market law and laying down precisely these provisions. The universal service is a basic service, and it is also a matter of the postal service having the task of providing the population as comprehensively as possible. In the postal market law we have just defined these national postal services. And what we are doing today is regulating international cooperation in this UN Special Organisation of the World Post Association. It is about the fact that more than 190 nations have adopted common rules. Some areas have already been tailor-made. These are adjustments to postal definitions, provisions on radio-active and infectious consignments, an agreement on postal payment services aimed at facilitating transfers of funds between postal operators, including the use of electronic media. As we have already discussed very intensively in the Committee, I am very glad – and this has now been expressed again – that the two agreements, which are now in the process of ratification, are obviously supported by all the parties represented in Parliament. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e16993	Next speaker: Mrs Binder-Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17015	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Both the government paper on agenda item 9 and those on agenda item 10 regulate international cooperation. We will, of course, give them our consent. A few comments on the total post. One goal, of course, is the full liberalisation of the postal market also in Austria. A barrier has now been taken, namely the installation of house-letters, which are necessary, so that other providers in postal services can also send their letters to the woman/to the man. The first obstacle was thus removed and removed. And I think that opening up and access for alternative providers are guaranteed by this, although we can see that there are currently no additional providers in Austria in addition to Austrian Post AG. It is also important to me in this context, also to the comments of Mr Auer, that it should not be further cuts and savings are made in the sense of customers and also in the sense of employees. The Federal Minister has already noted that, on the one hand, she is responsible for content and, on the other hand, is the owner of the Minister of Finance. I would like to give you a statement by the Director-General of 15 May. March, which means in a press release: It is important to me that the employees also benefit from the success of the company, because the post has a strong increase in profits. I would like to stress this and appeal to the Director-General that, on the one hand, the situation of post-posters, in order to express it in old-fashioned terms, is no longer worse, but, on the contrary, that their situation is considered in social terms. And for us, the maintenance of the post office that still exists and, above all, the system and the sufficient presence of the letter boxes are also important. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this item on the agenda is about a very old-fashioned activity, namely letter writing. I am aware that the new technologies do not go past us without a trace, but the writing of letters is something charming, has a personal note and should remain a value that we should continue to maintain.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17066	There is no further statement of words to this effect. I therefore conclude the debate. We are now voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Contracts of the World Post Association (Genf 2008); Eight additional Protocols on the Statute of the World Postal Association; First Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Organisation; World Post Treaty and Final Protocol; Agreement on postal payment services, in 1895 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. I would ask those Members who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Furthermore, the vote on the request of the Transport Committee within the meaning of Article 49(2). 2 B-VG that the authentic French language versions and their translations to the German should be made known by the fact that they are available for public inspection in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, the post office of this subsidiary and the headquarters of Austrian Post AG, Haidingergasse 1, 1030 Vienna. If you are here, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Amending instruments of the Statutes of the International Telecommunications Union and of the Treaty of the International Telecommunications Union, Geneva 1992, as amended by the Conference of Governmental Plenipotentiaries (Kyoto 1994), the Conference of Governmental Plenipotentiaries (Minneapolis 1998), the Conference of Governmental Plenipotentiaries (Marrakesh 2002) and the Conference of Governmental Plenipotentiaries (Antalya 2006), together with statements and reservations in 1906 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50 para. 1 Z 1 B-VG. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign on this matter. – This is unanimously accepted. [[17:40:12]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (2194, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Road Law 1971, the Container Safety Act, the Driving Licence Act, the Occasional Traffic Act 1996, the Goods Transport Act 1995, the Road Roads Act, the Road Tunnel Safety Act, the Aviation Act, the Federal Act on Safety Measures in Foreign Air Transport, the Federal Law on Inter-State Aviation 2008, the Shipping Act, the Maritime Law, the Railway Act 1957, the Post-Market Act, the Telecommunications Act 2003, the Amateur Radio Act 1998, the Funker-Zeugnisgesetz 1998, the Federal Law on Radios and Telecommunications Institutions, and the Telecom Fees Act 2000 (Law Law on Transport, Innovation and Technology) (2352 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17135	I'm calling the 11th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17163	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We now have to do with a kind of collecting society that reforms overall the administrative jurisdiction in various legislative instruments. The government sees this as a great act of administrative reform, we see it as the first step in administrative reform, which, I say deliberately, unfortunately only partially succeeded. We regret, in particular, that this administrative reform has reduced the legal protection and also the legal status of those concerned, in some cases significantly reduced. Legal protection has been lost. For example, there is no longer any suspensive effect of complaints. Even if the Supreme Court has established the fundamental illegality of a decision, it can be further developed, but not only as a kind of construction site protection – I would have nothing against it; if a construction stop requires that one secure the construction site, of course one must take structural measures – but it can be further developed in spite of a finding by a top court in the event of the withdrawal of the notice without notice up to a year, and this in the case of projects that are particularly affected by many people, such as projects of railway expansions and also projects of road constructions. This one-year deadline for continuing the construction site seems to be far too high and is also illegal internationally, is a break of the Aarhus Convention and also of the EU Directives. Mrs Minister, why we are doing these international violations, you have to explain this to me now, and you should also explain to me why we are maiming rights in this way, some of them even with feet! You owe us a speech and an answer, Mrs. Minister! Why break the Aarhus Convention, why break the EU rules, why the deterioration of the legal situation for those concerned, why the rule of law in Austria undermine by your so-called administrative reform? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The same question arises, of course, with the so-called ban on innovation, which is now being introduced. In other words, if a complaint is dealt with in a second instance, he may only present those reasons which he has already raised at first instance. If new reasons arise, he must not mention them and not apply them. This is also a deterioration, we do not want it. Mrs Minister, the third criticism is the inequality between road and rail. I am grateful to you for bringing together the procedures in the area of road, which leads to a central responsibility of the Federal Administrative Court. That's what they call administrative reform, okay. But how does the train look? – It remains the responsibility of the national administration courts, in addition to the still responsible total 132 authorities. Calculate this, then you will come to 142 competent authorities in train procedures. There is a central federal administrative jurisdiction on the street, and other laws exist at the train. Where is the rule of law, Mrs Minister, where is equality? Why is this so complicated in the train? Why – this is the next point – is there no new regulation of the railway compensation law? If already administrative reform, then neatly and truly with hand and foot, nails with heads! But what you're presenting is either just heads or nails and, above all, faulty. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will be able to draw on two other examples in the debate on the next item on the agenda. The trick of your department in this federal legislation, which is called administrative reform, is also that you presented the law in February with a two-week review period. Two weeks of assessment of such a comprehensive matter, which – the President has read it before – concerns a dozen laws! Even the Federal Chancellery, which is not really revolutionary or inconsistency, has ruled that the normal assessment period of six weeks should have been observed. Now the Clou is coming! If you had admitted six weeks in February, we would have completed the review in mid-March, and that would have been a long time since we made a decision today. Why is it that the question of the question of the matter is raised when the decision is taken here in Parliament at the end of May? This is a contradiction that only shows what it seems to you – I say it is really polite – to you. They need to reduce citizens' rights and reduce assessment periods. This is in itself a way that leads us back to democracy in the population. We do not follow this path, we even want to prevent you from taking it!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17226	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17247	Mr President. Dear Mrs Bures! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Ladies and gentlemen! We all here in this House are very happy to remember the unanimous decision on the reform of the administrative jurisdiction in May 2012. Now the resorts in the so-called matter laws have to create the conditions for it from 1. January 2014 will give a so-called 9+2 model. That is to say, there will only be one national administration court in the nine federal states and two administrative first instance in the federal government. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This is indeed a tremendous administrative simplification. A total of around 120 special authorities are dissolved. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: And at the railway 142!]] – Dear colleague Gabriela Moser, I'm telling you right now, actually I wanted to tell you later: No one here in this House, nor the Federal Ministry, nor the Federal Minister, has the intention of limiting any civil rights in Austria. This is an accusation for your part, which is not to be proved by anything, nor is it durable. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 25 years ago – What you always read. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Read the opinion!]] You often do not read things that are only understandable to you, for the broad mass of the population. Again: 25 years ago, the debate on the administrative courts began, and with the decision 2012 and the relevant material laws such as the amended Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology to be decided today, the largest reform of legal protection, Dr. Moser, has now been implemented the largest reform of legal protection since the Austrian federal constitution. This structure creates faster procedures, greater legal certainty for the population and closer to citizens. Watch out, Dr. Moser, more citizens! This collection of the transport sector, which is present today, is primarily used to adapt the legisla­tions previously contained in a number of laws. For example, the new administrative jurisdictions in 2012 - I may mention this at this point - resolve the previous Rail Control Commission. The proceedings pending with it shall be referred to the administrative courts. However, in order to continue to be a regulatory body in line with EU requirements, the Adaptation Act establishes a new Rail Control Commission, which will continue to carry out the tasks of the current institution. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This draft law, which I am convinced of, has become good. The Committee adopted the Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act with the votes of SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ. I would like to express my support for the approval of the other political groups, the BZÖ, Mr Dolinschek, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17303	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17325	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heinzl, I'm sorry to let you down: We will not give our consent to this new law. The Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act provides for a necessary adaptation to the new multi-stage system of administrative jurisdiction. These collectionovelles primarily remove the spheres of instance contained in a series of laws, since they are from 1st century onwards. ==References====External links== This change, I admit, is a first step in the right direction, towards administrative simplification, and is also in line with the shift of competence between the federal government and countries. It should also provide a procedural acceleration in all areas, but neither the term running nor the assessment of them are affected. Basically, only one thing can be said: It is a single remnant of the large announced administrative reform of this federal government at the beginning of this legislative period. That's left, more has not come out, and that's just too little for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17364	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17385	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! No, it's not just a remnant, it's a big throw in administrative reform that's been successful. With this Act of Adjustment, we add what is to be done in terms of traffic. I am a little surprised that the BZÖ does not implement the proposed agreement. Not surprised, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, I am of the position of the Greens. We have already been able to take note of the fact that Mrs Brunner, whom I am otherwise very much valued, has suddenly become the feud of federalism. On the other hand, I would like to comment on a No of the national conference – a non-astonishing No of the national conference – for the first time to transfer competences from countries to the federal government in matters. She said: Where is Parliament's self-confidence? Let's just go over the heads of state! On the one hand, this ignores the fact that this would not be possible by law, even if one wanted to do so, Mrs Brunner – there is a constitution, and that when it comes to a transfer of competence, it would have to be the consensus of the countries, and there is no such thing as that – on the other hand, the real political constitution and the political sense that is not entirely foreign to the Greens should lead to the fact that one can only do this if one finds the consensus. This position of yours in the committee, Mrs Brunner, is now putting the other Mrs Dr. Moser, whom I especially value personally, on one point by becoming the Nosager par excellence in transport matters. They say no to everything. What? You are looking for hair in the soup and then, of course, find it, is nothing but a depressing effect for all innovations whenever it is necessary and desirable. This is exactly what has only worked very seriously in recent years and decades in the implementation of the project in Austria. It must be possible – Mr Heinzl has already said that – to implement projects in this country, Mrs Moser, in respect of the protection of neighbouring and civil rights, and it will be possible. The rule of law is not threatened by this bill, but it is considerably strengthened because transparency and the interests of citizens are better preserved. Let these three, four hairs that you have found hard to have believe away, then this is a great matter of law, a very important matter of law that ultimately makes projects in this country easier to implement! I also announce a second reading amendment, which I have already done in committee, which Mrs Lohfeyer will bring in. It must be ensured if it does not become a federal competence that, if a federal border road is affected, it is regulated which administrative court is responsible for it. This must also be the case for road and tunnel projects. We have solved this without attacking the competences of the countries or even the heads of state. This rounds off this very positive act, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17431	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17452	Ladies and gentlemen! We too will agree to this bill by the Stronach team. We do not see this as problematic as the BZÖ. Administrative reform is always important, an important point, and the novelle is something for us, even if – let's say it – it's not quite fish and not whole meat. It is a little forward in the area of administrative simplification, administrative improvement. We have already passed various laws for this so-called largest administrative reform of the Republic, and we have also agreed to it. However, I already have to say that the experts in certain areas actually have some abdominal pain, because it is not quite such that A also knows what to do. This is, of course, a problem that should still be addressed. I would also like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christoph Hagen, colleague and colleagues on the ban on heavy goods vehicles. This may now only have to do with traffic, not directly on this subject, but, ladies and gentlemen, you know the problem when you are on the highway, you know the problem of overcrowding trucks on two-track highways. They drive with 130 kilometres per hour on the overpass, suddenly a truck changes the track, driving at 80 or 82 km/h, overtaking the truck in front of it, which is exactly 80. 2 km/h difference. You know the problem: You have to get up to the brake, which can become very critical in dangerous road conditions, for example, if it is a bit wet. To slow down 50 km/h is already an ordinary story. The problem is, if one truck drives 2 km/h faster than the other, the overtaking maneuver can take several minutes, partly even 10 minutes if they deliver a race. There will then be very dangerous situations, there will be congestion. This is very difficult, because of this resolution. I have already brought him in, and the Minister for Transport has come up with something. That is to say, it has instructed the national leaders or the national governments to identify the hazards of raising the potential for danger on two-track motorways. So you're going in the right direction, Mrs. Minister! I know it's not always that easy to follow a proposal from the opposition, but the will counts, Mrs Minister, and I think you have the will. Together, we'll certainly do that. We from the Stronach team are not so party-political, we like to work together with all those who force and support reasonable ideas. So now I have my request – I have now picked up a lot –: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that would be a reasonable matter in the sense of road safety. I'm sure no one can have anything against it. Nor will this contradict the Coalition Agreement, because that will not be a request from me, but you will bring it yourself and you will implement it. I am glad when you implement this; reasonable things belong to implemented. This is really a manco that needs to be resolved, Mrs Minister, and I invite you, as well as the SPÖ, ÖVP and all the other groups here in Parliament, you can do something good about road safety: Support our request! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17521	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17583	Mrs Bures is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17604	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With the Administrative Jurisdiction Novelle, which is to be decided today, a long-standing concern of this Federal Government is in implementation. It is a novel that passes through all the departments, which was also in a joint assessment. I also say this with regard to criticism as regards the duration of the review: This was a joint assessment for all the departments that must now be taken into account in their individual legal regulations. In this novel, three things were important to us: The first is to achieve administrative simplification and acceleration, the second is that citizens' rights should be strengthened, and the third is that we want to achieve a discharge from the Administrative Court. In my area alone, there are 18 legislation on the matter in which these amendments need to be made. Of course, the main issue is that the second instance goes to the federal administration courts or to the administrative courts of the countries. I would also like to mention that I could have imagined well or preferred that the Federal Administrative Court is responsible for cross-border issues, for example in the Federal Roads area. The draft does not provide this in the form, but I did not want to hide it and think there can still be talks about it. There are very special features in each area. In my area, for example, it is true that this regulation will disband the Rail Control Commission in its old form and today we will decide, as it were, to re-establish EU law and competition law, in order to reduce this second stage of the Rail Control Commission as a rail regulatory authority. Summary: Despite some criticisms that have come, I believe that this is a novel that goes in the right direction and will lead to administrative simplification and greater legal certainty.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17644	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17666	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I shall bring in the amendment already announced by Mr Heinzl, Dr Bartenstein, colleagues on the Government Template concerning the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, 2194 of the Supplements, as amended by the Committee's report, 2352 of the Supplements. This application sets out in concrete terms that the Federal Administrative Court is responsible for complaints against decisions by Rail Control GmbH and the Rail Control Commission. This change creates the necessary clarity. As the Minister has already done, it would have been desirable that the jurisdiction of the Federal Administrative Court would have been defined for certain procedures in the field of road transport. In any case, a significant part of the procedures under the Federal Road Law 1971 will be dealt with under the EIA Act 2000. For complaints against decisions under the 2000 EIA Act is from 1. The Federal Administrative Court was therefore responsible for January 2014. Therefore, in order to ensure a uniform federal case law in matters of the Federal Roads, a jurisdiction of the Federal Administrative Court would have been advantageous for all procedures under the Federal Roads Act 1971, i.e. those which are not dealt with in the context of an EIA procedure. Unfortunately, the necessary agreement of the countries is not available. However, since such procedures may fall within the competence of several national administrative courts, it is necessary to establish a system which is responsible for the specific procedure of those courts. This scheme is now being set up with the amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e17705	This supplementary or amendment is also under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18030	No further words are available. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 2194 of the Supplements. Mr Heinzl, Mr Bartenstein, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Heinzl, Dr Bartenstein, colleagues, tabled an amendment or amendment concerning Articles 1, 3, 6, 7, 11, 12 and 13. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt, will be taken in the form of the Government template. If you support this, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you are also in third reading for this draft law, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The draft was also adopted at third reading. Debates of the European Parliament Whoever supports this request, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[18:05:54]] 12. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (2298, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Roads Act 2002 (2353 d.b.) 13. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 2279/A by Mr Anton Heinzl, Dr Martin Bartenstein, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Motor Driving Act 1967 (2354 d.b.) 14. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 2280/A by Mr Anton Heinzl, Dr Martin Bartenstein, Members of the Federal Law on the carriage of dangerous goods, BGBl. I No. 145/1998, amended (2355 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18144	We come to points 12 to 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18174	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is now about two legislative bodies, which are actually part of the so-called administrative reform, which is also part of the reform of administrative jurisdiction. Only – you can see – why do we have to vote two more proposals now? – Because the overall project has been somewhat overskinned or missubmitted to Parliament. But you will be surprised, Mr Bartenstein, you will expect exactly: 50 percent of the applications and government templates will be approved by us today – 50 percent consent, half-half. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] [[Abg. Steindl: That's too little!]] So because of refusal – really no trace of it! In some areas, we have always practiced well-founded criticism, but we are doing half-half of it there like there. So, now specifically on these two templates: One is the Bundesstraßen-Mautgesetz. We would like to ask you, Mrs Minister, that you approach the toll scheme very slowly to the possibilities that the EU Road Costs Directive gives us when it comes to the use of trucks, that you apply it very slowly. The opportunity would be today, unfortunately it will not be perceived. In addition, we would like you to maintain this obligation to introduce working time records, so that this extension is not carried out here, so that people are free from the obligation to have their working time records, for example, when they switch from one bus to another as a bus driver, from one transport company to another. We would like to see these working time records carried out in the sense of road safety. And with regard to the second, the Risk Promotion Act, I may weigh you all in safety: We will definitely agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18217	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18238	Mr President. Mrs. Bures! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the Federal Roads Act is intended to relieve workers, but also entrepreneurs, in particular. A key pillar of these innovations will be the establishment of a single European electronic toll system. For example, European companies could act as toll service providers. This would facilitate the use of only one on-board equipment to carry out the electronic toll system. Ladies and gentlemen! They know that, in crossing several European countries, at least two such devices have been needed. In the future, this will only be calculated under a single toll contract by a European electronic toll system provider. This logically makes it easier for workers to do so, as red tape is reduced and the toll system becomes more transparent. In addition, the law provides for the existence of acts of tolling. This is given if, for example, the holder of the licence fails to obtain the missing proof if a vehicle is provisionally assigned to a tariff group. Vehicle operators are also obliged to inform their employees in good time of the introduction of a replacement toll request. This means that workers can no longer be asked to cash out themselves. It was often due to this lack of information in the establishments that the errors in the payment of the toll also brought administrative penalties to drivers. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Summary: The Novelle of the Bundesstraßen-Mautgesetz is a step towards more administrative simplification for entrepreneurs and more justice, especially for workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18278	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18300	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment of the Federal Roads Act ultimately provides for the implementation of the EU Directives in order to have uniform rules in the internal transport sector of the European Union. As my previous speaker has already pointed out, there is also the possibility for a provider of toll systems to operate across Europe. It also simplifies transport companies and workers in companies that are ultimately equipped with a device in the cab and do not have to use new technologies at national borders. I think that transit and road transport are not only very important for the people, but they are of general importance to Europe's economic area, because in the end it is road transport, which is very much supporting and promoting our economy. If we look at it from the negative side, we often have problems with it, suffer from too much traffic and complain about it. On the other hand, this concerns the goods that we all need and consume in everyday life, and we should therefore move forward these simplifications in these areas too. We have discussed air transport at a previous item on the agenda, and it is similar. The noise pollution caused by air traffic often produces a very high sensitivity, but we all want to fly, appreciate the mobility and the possibility to fly, very much, and there is of course a central hub of Vienna Airport. But what is not going on in this area is one thing that is already inspired by the media today, namely that under the keyword Curved Approach new landing and take-off lines around the airport are being built to relieve some areas and burden new areas. This would very much burden the district – and that is the whole of Vienna, my hometown – because here we have a well established process with a dialogue forum where the affected communities are involved. New routes would affect other communities that are not involved in this dialogue forum. That is to say, one would disable the participation of citizens, therefore it is absolutely unacceptable, and it cannot be that only at the request of the Federal Capital of Vienna is going in such directions. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bures, also on the issue of digital dividends, I see it very positive that you want to make money available for infrastructure and broadband development in rural areas. But I also appeal to you that it is not a few million or that it may be one part or another, and the rest goes into housing promotion. We already have corresponding funds for housing development in the budget titles. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: in the wrong debate!]] The entire digital dividend, the entire proceeds, is for the expansion of broadband in rural areas, which is the last straw for rural areas to maintain future jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18368	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18389	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Somehow I believe that we are not at all with the tolls or the federal road toll law, but somewhere between digital dividends, tourism, tourism and economic promotion. We are at the Bundesstraßen-Mautgesetz, in the event of a change that is quite positive. It is based on an EU directive – plus the corresponding amendment by: Commission – and it has some quite positive points, namely, first of all a characteristic statement in Europe’s electronic toll service, and secondly – and this is very important –: It has been defined the practice of tolling. We have the following problem in other areas of transport, in the case of normal transport penalties: That's clear, but we can't follow it properly. It should also be possible now, especially with the loving, occasionally fleeing owners of foreign licenses and approvals, to demand this. We find the information requirement for driving power dependent toll positive, especially the changes made in the second passage in favour of the handlebars and at the expense of the approval owners; the load falls away from the handlebar, which is usually just an employee or partly not even that, the approval owner is responsible. In addition to the ASFINAG and perhaps ten, fifteen European toll system providers, the audience of this law is quite small, but let me give you a few suggestions in this context: The first is: In this context, we would have liked to see – just as ÖAMTC has written in its opinion – that mobile homes and old-timers, especially over 3.5 tonnes, are precisely concerned about this and say: Instead of the GO-Box please a vignette!, and similar – also one of our permanent requirements, also similar to the long-term requirement of the ÖAMTC – for the exchange mark owners. I would like to make a second point on this point: This directive, once linked to the trucks or to the vehicles over 3.5 tonnes and this whole legal background, does not have to be – and we say: should not be a precursor for what may later be moving on the passenger car sector. We have tolls that are dependent on driving performance in the truck, but we don't want them – we don't want them under any circumstances – in the passenger car sector, there's nothing about it. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Otherwise, this law should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18449	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18471	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will vote in favour of the Federal Roads Act, because technical requirements, which are regulated uniformly across the EU, are positive, and this will also create greater legal certainty. In principle, my previous speakers have already said the following. That's our opinion. With regard to Mr Heinzl and Mr Bartenstein's request for the motor vehicle law: This too we will give our approval. In recent years, the Bundesanstalt für Verkehr in all federal states has shown that there are still significant shortcomings in foreign trucks and that there is often a risk of delay, so I also hope that in addition to the existing control stations on the motorways, further traffic control sites will be created that this will be implemented quickly. – We will therefore agree to that too. With regard to the further request for the transport of dangerous goods: There are new provisions for the international transport of dangerous goods in the civil sector at the beginning of the year. air traffic entered into force. The Austro Control shall be declared the competent authority for the approvals required in this context. The administrative burden is estimated to be more than double. For the training recognitions, an amount of € 581 applies, and the administrative burden – that is the only minus point – seems to me a bit high at €1 300. In principle, however, these two applications and the government template to the Federal Roads Act are to be welcomed, and we will also give this our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18510	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18531	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We too will agree because we are convinced of the sensibleness of this government proposal. I think it is necessary not to have five devices for the truck toll – which is now exaggerated – two had been inside a truck, but that it is feasible with one. This is a significant improvement both for businesses and drivers. This will make simplifications. And that's why we want to give our consent here. The other points were discussed and discussed by colleagues earlier. I don't want to repeat this now. However, I would like to address another issue that also has to do with traffic, one of my favorite topics, ladies and gentlemen. The dear spray price is a transport theme. Of course, he is also an economic issue, Mrs Minister. But you are part of the government, and that is why, as Minister of Transport, I would like to give this to you, because every road operator or driver is affected by it. A little example. I was in Hamburg yesterday. Germany places 7 percent more taxes on the spray price than Austria. Since I drive a economical diesel vehicle, I'm always interested in the diesel price. I looked at the diesel price at the gas station in Hamburg and saw, diesel costs 1,336 €. Yesterday night I returned to Friedrichshafen on Lake Constance, also in Germany, and saw at the gas stations a diesel price of 1.365 €. In the opinion that in Austria, because we have less taxes on the spray price, Diesel is much cheaper, the horror has hit me than I was driving across the border. In Austria say and write: 1,409 € and 1,399 €! Ladies and gentlemen! Who deserves this basket money? – Someone has to explain this to me: In Germany, as said, 7 percent more taxes, but the spray price is nevertheless much cheaper than in Austria. And that's not a one-day fly, I've noticed it a lot. Now the question is: Does the government cash here? Is the oil mutilation and the government looking at it because it's co-cascasing? Or whoever. I think the last one who has something of it is the gas station owner, because he is sucked out like a laus, said in German. That's a point, Mrs. Minister. I know you're not directly responsible now, but you're a member of the government. This is a point you have to address openly, because the milk cow of the nation is the driver, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think you can say that often enough. The car driver is shot off in Austria. And there are possibilities that are hardly impossible, or that is endless what is going on here. The driver always pays the token in all areas. There's everything you can do to get rid of the driver. This is unfair, ladies and gentlemen. We know that the very many counterparts that depend on the car, and also the freighters – if we are again on the subject of trucks – are the “lacked” because they are not competitive in Europe, not only at the spray prices. That's more. This is also about the costs for the truck drivers, which is about the additional wage costs, and, and, and. So the subject of car and traffic in Austria is the subject in which the state stuffs the pockets and the Austrians draw the money out of their pockets. I think that is extremely unfair, ladies and gentlemen. That's yours. Please explain to me what it can be like for a much higher tax burden on spray in Germany to be much cheaper than in Austria? It's not a cow's skin. I think you should turn on the competition authority once. I am already in favour of a free market, but if the gas station owner does not deserve anything, that should be changed. Whoever fills up the bags – and I am going to stop from the oil refineries, from the OMV beginning to the know who, and, of course, from the union that also co-cascases. The mineral oil tax and the VAT on the mineral oil tax also apply to every litre of spray. Many people do not know that VAT still has to be paid on the mineral oil tax. These are things that once appear to belong. It should finally be done here, because the Austrian driver has already paid enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18593	Next speaker: Mrs. Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18614	Mr President. Mr Deimek, you are of course right that a number of points have been raised by Members who do not directly deal with the current legislative amendment. But it shows a little bit the width of my resort, for which I am not entirely ungrateful. That is why, even if it does not belong to the novel, it is very important for me to say something about what has been mentioned by the honourable Member. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is so that in autumn we will auction the digital dividend, namely radio frequencies. And they're public property. We have formulated a minimum bid in the tender of about €500 million. And what I have said is that I would like us to invest a part, half of this money in a digital infrastructure, that we will get €250 million to close the gap in accessing fast Internet links between city and country, so that we do not have a gap when it comes to a modern knowledge society and access to it between young and old, and that we are investing precisely in this area. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: No! - Oh, my God! That's a lot more!]] And yes, I then said that, in a completely different context, I believe that if we want to achieve sustainable living – and I am convinced that it is important to do everything so that people can afford their rent – that this is one of the crucial points that we increase the offer. [[Abg. Head: Also property!]] That's why I just mentioned this as one of the possible finances – I don't think it's possible to say more investment, but don't say where the money is to come from – as a proposal, but yes, I'm in favour of, in times like this, a business package on housing, that in this area, whether it's the second part of the digital dividend or not, we're rowing up a business package that's about more social, sustainable housing, that we're investing in this area today, creating growth, generating employment, and tomorrow having housing for the young people they can afford. And I insist that I'm for doing that. [[Demonstrative applause with the greens as well as applause with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Return to the Federal Roads Toll Act, which belongs to my resort, and also to the question of what drivers pay. With regard to the passenger car take-off: The Austrian Vignette system is truly recognized; not only that there is a high acceptance of drivers, the EU Commission has conducted a comparative study in all countries that have this Vignette system. And Austria is also listed as the best practice example. We have set up a number of measures at the truck crew. Not only do we have a kilometre-dependent toll at trucks, not only that we take advantage of everything to force relocations from the road to the rail, and we also collect cross-financing, we have also introduced an ecologisation of the truck toll in Austria. Since the beginning of 2010, it has been true that those trucks that have a lower pollutant emissions, i.e. the more modern EURO classes of trucks, also pay a lower toll. And that is why we will continue to consider the implementation of the Road Costs Directive in the coming weeks with an account of external costs in terms of noise and air pollution, because we are concerned with organizing mobility in Austria as environmentally friendly as possible. Let me just give an example because we have considered whether this ecologisation of the truck toll works. And she works! It has shown totally positive effects. I'll tell you two numbers. One is that in the last two years, the proportion of vehicles with the lowest pollutant emissions has almost doubled from 30 percent to almost 60 percent. This means that we have a decrease of 8 percent in nitrogen oxide emissions and 10 percent in particulate emissions. In other words, this ecologisation was a real step that we have taken, and we will continue to do so with the calculation of external costs. A second point in the near future: the issue of transport safety and investment. I think the most important thing for the drivers is that they are safe on Austria's roads. There are a number of laws and measures that can be taken, and we must also invest in road safety, among other things. Every second euro we invest in the development of motorways and highways is security investments, are second tunnel tubes, are measures that make road loads safer, are measures that allow us to provide more truck seats so that truck drivers can also keep their rest periods. All these investments – as has been said, every second euro – go to road safety, because in addition to the question of how to organize transport ecologically, the second priority is road safety. And both are reflected in this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18671	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18692	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! To Mr Hagen, who explained to us the spray price situation in Germany: I would recommend him to go to Italy. I enjoyed it last week. There costs 1 litre of diesel between 1,70 € and 2 €. So these are huge sums you have to pay there. I was happy when I was back in Austria – one and a half days I was over, so not on vacation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] – I was happy when I was back in Austria and paid 1.36 € for 1 litre of diesel. But, Mrs Federal Minister, not only in Austria, but practically in all EU countries, we have a truck toll. Although this is almost an equivalent in the European countries, unfortunately there is still a lack of a uniform accounting standard for this toll. Throughout Europe, there are different systems, from cashing at toll points, that goes over radar measurement, through microwaves to satellite location. However, I can say that in Austria we have the most modern system for this toll settlement in the EU countries. The aim must be to have an intercompatible system across Europe in the future. In a Europe where there are no border controls in which we pay with a common currency, it must not be that we have different toll systems with different control techniques, ladies and gentlemen. The current definition of uniform features in technical competence is a very important thing, which we decide here with this innovation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18731	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18753	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It has been mentioned more often that the EU Directive is intended to create the prerequisite for crossing these across national borders with different toll systems. A contract, a service provider, but above all an on-board device is intended to ensure that no additional actions of the handlebars or transport companies are required during this crossing. This also means simplification in cross-border transport. This will reduce unnecessary administrative burden, unnecessary time and the associated costs. However, I also think it is important to stress that there is no decision on the system to be used or that it is not involved in the competition of the technical systems and not in the collective agreements and the system choice of the Member States. The standard, both in technical and contractual terms, is intended to call on toll operators to ensure that EETS providers create a possible device that supports various toll systems. We know that the satellite-based system is being used in Germany. With us in Austria, a microwave technology is being used, as my previous speaker has already said. That's a common solution. We already showed it in September 2011: Between Austria and Germany, there is a truck toll system with TOLL2GO across the borders. This was already an important intermediate step to ensure the compatibility of electronic toll systems. With this template we will take the next step.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18795	Next speaker: Member of the jury. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18816	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I take this debate on the occasion of a major traffic problem in my hometown, in Spittal, on the Drau. This is about the Lieserschlucht, which is part of the Katschberg Bundesstraße, the B99, which is constantly blocked by rock falls for traffic. Through various rock cover works and rehabilitation measures, an important road to the district of Spittal on the Drau has been blocked for months. The distance runs through a residential area over the Fratres. There 13 000 cars spoil the air every day, cause noise and provide a little safety risk for residents and children. There would be a solution, namely that you can take part of the Tauern motorway, a total of 6 kilometres, from the Knot Spittal/Millstättersee to Spittal Ost vignette-free, speak maut-free. This would completely eliminate this burden for the anrainers of the district of Spittal. That would be a good solution. All the local politicians, ahead of the executive mayor of Spittal, Bernd Sengseis, asked me to make this request. I appeal to the parties present here in the House, but to jump over their shadows and, above all, to remove the obligation of vignette for the small people. In particular, pensioners are on the road that no longer want to afford the vignette, because they just drive from sea floor to Spittal, 10 kilometers, and don't want to buy vignette for it. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18882	The application shall be filed properly and shall be co-negotiated. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18946	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e18967	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Again to repeat: The amendment of the Federal Roads Act provides the prerequisite for the technical and contractual implementation of a European electronic toll service. In addition, novel changes required under the Administrative Jurisdiction Execution Act are taken into account. Furthermore, an optional conciliation procedure for disputes between the ASFINAG and toll service providers is established which does not affect the responsibilities of the local courts or those of administrative authorities. A point that is also contained in this novelle now makes it clear that blue-light vehicles in operation are not subject to toll and can easily pass through. The introduction of the practice of tolling is also included in the law. If the holder fails to provide proof of the EURO emission class if a vehicle is provisionally assigned to a tariff group, there is no such proof. In addition, drivers are obliged to inform their employees in good time of the introduction of a replacement toll request. This means that the drivers, the drivers, are protected from administrative penalties – and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19007	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19028	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We too, as the previous speakers have already announced, will agree to the amendment of the Federal Roads Act, although we also have concerns. We are for uniform technologies like the trucks with the GO boxes, which is absolutely okay, but this should not be a pioneer and not go in the direction that this will then also come for cars. A single EU toll is certainly not to be done with us, we would reject it. So we already have our concerns, but in general this law goes in the right direction, therefore our consent. Toll revenue is important, yes, because, of course, as has already been said, safety and noise protection cost money. More and more citizens are affected by road noise health. So you have to see how you can help yourself. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think noise protection is a very important issue and should also be addressed here – also with the toll revenue. This makes sense and is a prevention against diseases caused by noise. That is why this must be implemented. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19100	The motion for a resolution tabled is being debated. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19171	There is no further statement of words to this effect. I therefore conclude the debate. The vote will be taken separately on each committee request. Vote on agenda item 12: Draft federal law amending the Federal Roads Act, including title and receipt in 2353 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this draft, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. If you agree in third reading, I ask you for your sign. – This is decided by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. vote on the motion for a resolution by the Member States Jury, colleagues and colleagues on the temporary abolition of the obligation of vignette on the Tauern motorway between Spittal Ost and Spittal West. If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – The request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gartelgruber, colleagues, on the future loads on the population of Angat – rising noise and exhaust gases through a planned highway parking and stop building as well as the construction of an open railway line instead of under tunneling. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. Vote on agenda item 13: Draft Federal Act amending the Motor Driving Act 1967, together with the title and receipt in 2354 of the Supplements. Whoever supports this bill, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. If you are also in third reading for this draft, I ask for your approval. – The draft was adopted by a majority vote and was therefore adopted at the third reading. Agenda item 14: Draft federal law amending the Risk Promotion Act, together with the title and receipt in 2355 of the Supplements. In case of consent, I ask you for your supporting sign. – This is unanimously accepted. If you are in third reading for this, I ask for your consent. – Adopted unanimously. The draft was also adopted at third reading. [[18:44:17]] 15. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (2295, p._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Climate Change Act (2313 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19278	We're coming to 15. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Jannach. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19308	Mr President. Federal Minister! Today we are talking about a novel of the Climate Change Act, which sets out how high the sectoral limits for emissions should be by 2020. Already in 2011, the Climate Change Act was passed – without our consent, well-notified, as we have considered the Climate Change Act to be far too comprehensive, as you have presented it here. Austria – and this is no new wisdom – misses its climate change targets and Kyoto commitments at Weitem. And this should, according to your 2011 statements, be contrary to this Climate Change Act. We pointed out at the time that the Climate Change Act is a toothless papermaker. It has no legally binding character. And if it does not have a legally binding character and as a Federal Minister you cannot, under the threat of punishment and sanctions, require the federal states to comply with climate change protection, then it will not work. – Unfortunately, that has proved true. We therefore have a really toothless law, which basically does not regulate anything and does not help environmental protection at all. At the time, we have criticized – and by the current novice does not change anything – that no concrete objective has been set that there is no obligation of the federal states, namely, no sanctions-based obligations to comply with certain climate change measures. They are – and unfortunately you are still today – a bitter among the national leaders. They depend on the goodwill of the national leaders that there is a change here. We liberals call for a very clear commitment from the federal states, not through Article 15a agreements, which are not yet in place, but even a constitutional regime which sets out climate change protection and which obliges the federal states to comply with climate change measures. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the time, we also criticized – and this has not changed – that you have set up a National Climate Change Committee, a National Climate Change Advisory Council, according to the motto: If I don't know, I'll start a working group. The results of these advisory committees have not been brought to our attention, let alone any measures. I come briefly to the opinions of individual organizations and countries on this revision of the Climate Change Act and start with the eco- Office, that is the opinion of all environmental organisations in Austria. The eco-bureau also criticises that the law suffers from a lack of liability. There is no transparency in this law. Furthermore, the opinion of the Chamber of Agriculture, your own organisation, if you wish, also criticises the fact that the measures cannot be implemented here: ‘The reduction in GHG’ – the reduction in GHG – ‘for agriculture would mean a 5% reduction in production, which is considered impracticable and therefore rejected, by reference to an increase in production, which is necessary for the business economy and is popularly desired.’ So there is a negative opinion from the Chamber of Agriculture. There is also a negative opinion from the Umweltddachverband. And even the Lower Austrian Government has given a negative opinion, also on the fact that the assessment period for this novel was more than short. It has stated that this law cannot be approved at all. We demand – in conclusion – a legally binding character of this law, a constitutional definition of climate change targets so that they are also respected. So far, it hasn't succeeded. Unfortunately, I have to note that the last five years have been five lost years for climate protection in Austria. You've been hiding behind these committees, there's no action. We have – and this is positive – an Austrian climate strategy, and we would wish that at least these measures would be legally implemented here, because I think we would have solved the climate protection problem in Austria. This law, which sets out a sectoral emission limitation, does not solve the problem of climate protection in any way. It is merely a statement of intent; a statement of intent that does not follow sanctions. We call on you to amend this law in such a way that it gets mandatory character! And in the course of the whole debate on the Ministry of Life as a whole, we have come to the view that we absolutely need to separate the Ministry of Environment from the Ministry of Agriculture in order to have a credible, honest Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19398	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19419	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Today, we are adopting a novel to the Climate Change Act, which marks the sector targets for the years 2013 to 2020. And with this – and this is contrary to what my previous speaker said – Austria is once again getting binding targets in the main sectors, and climate protection is binding and coordinated in Austria. In principle, there is annual information on how each sector is concerned about achieving the objectives and whether action should be taken to achieve the target path. We have not only debated this Climate Change Act in the Environment Committee, but also discussed the progress report on the Climate Change Act. We have found that Austria is on the road very well in key sectors. The most important deviations are in the transport sector in particular. Of course, one has to say that there is a problem in tank tourism in the border area and that some deviations are justified. The main areas, such as waste, are partly below the objectives. It is striking that there is a slight increase in emissions in industry and transport. However, this is well justified by the encouraging development that our economy has recovered from the economic crisis and is related to these excesses. That's where it needs, I think, a base for climate protection. It is simply necessary that our businesses and our industry are competitive despite climate change and climate protection, because this will ensure jobs and our prosperity. It is now true that economic growth and the rise in emissions cannot be completely decoupled, as the Greens have said over and over again. There is simply a connection, and with this there are also increases due to higher economic growth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] However, climate protection needs, in general, a global view and no single Austrian and European foresight. I should like to quote Jean-Claude Juncker, who said at today's EU summit: It needs a joint effort, it doesn't matter if we keep going, while others are leaning back and doing nothing. [[Abg. May. Brunner: We don't pretend, we're final light!]] I think we need a common approach. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Climate protection should be effective, important and necessary, but must not be unrealistic and dangerous to location. We need climate protection with measure and objective – that is: Development of renewable energy sources, softer mobility, new forms of mobility, public transport expansion, thermal quality of buildings and energy efficiency. I think Austria is doing a lot in this area, and we are making good progress. I think that's the right and important way. The ÖVP and especially our Environment and Life Minister Berlakovich are a guarantee that efficient climate protection is being carried out and that businesses and jobs are not threatened by excessive measures. That doesn't bring us all any further.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19468	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19489	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Watchers! What am I supposed to say after my previous speaker to perhaps put this back in the right light? – So, unfortunately, there can be no talk about Austria’s foresight. It is now, I believe, known that Austria is a final climate protection light in the EU. We have not achieved Kyoto targets as the only country. Austria has committed itself to saving 13 percent of CO2 emissions compared with 1990. In fact, we're plus 8. So there can be no mention of an exclusive entrance in Austria at all. It would be necessary, however, for Austria to presuppose. When someone observes the international negotiations, he sees: Climate protection and climate change are the biggest challenge of our century. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I find it sad and embarrassing that the Heads of Government of this earth are unable to reach a climate agreement that will help us get under control of climate change. What's dangerous about location? – I think that is when there are regions on our planet in which survival is no longer safe – not the survival of any economic enterprises, but the survival of people. That is already the case. That is why I find it irresponsible if Austria does not assume its role. It has already been mentioned that, a year and a half ago, this Climate Change Act was adopted here against our votes, despite our massive criticism. This Climate Change Act bears the manuscript of the Industrial Association. It has four sides, and that's how it looks. Only because climate protection law is on it does not yet mean that climate protection is also inside. This law has not saved a single gram of CO2 in recent years. Committees and advisory committees have been set up. I think it is very good to talk to each other in different constellations, but we do not need a law, because, Minister, that would be your most important task: to talk to all stakeholders and all those responsible in this field. I expect a law to be in there: What goals do we pursue? What measures do we take to achieve these objectives? Who is responsible for what? What happens until when? How is it controlled, and what happens if nothing happens? What sanctions are there then? – All of this is not contained in this law, so nothing has happened either. [[Abg. Neubauer: That's why it's a Schmarr'n!]] The Federal Environment Agency, in every climate change report that we are always discussing in the Environment Committee, points out that Austria has not only missed the Kyoto targets, but also that, if we continue as before, we will not achieve the EU 2020 targets. This is more than embarrassing because the EU 2020 targets are anything but ambitious goals for Austria. This is a zero target for Austria. The EU 2020 targets are calculated on the basis of 2005 as Austria had the all-time high in CO2 emissions. This is our base year now, from there are expected reductions. Internationally, the base year 1990 is used. When we face this, the EU targets for Austria are a zero target, that is, a return to the start. With your climate policy, we will not even achieve this zero objective, but we will push out more than it was in 1990. This is embarrassing and has nothing to do with active climate policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now there is a novel of this law. It has already been mentioned that the assessment period for this was more than short. This novel would have been an opportunity to re-establish climate policy in Austria. I welcome the fact that you have at least for the first time shown a willingness to talk and have also talked about it with the opposition. But none of our remarks have been incorporated into this law. The novelle is now a table in which the obligation is divided into sectors. This may be a first step, only this zero target will be divided into sectors, and there are no obligations at all. The commitment mechanism still does not exist. Everyone knows: As long as this mecha­nism does not exist, nothing will continue to happen in Austria in the field of climate protection. We just can't afford that. Other countries show us that things are different. The UK shows: There are objectives inside, there are measures inside, there are controls and sanctions inside. A federal country like Nordrhein-Westfalen also shows it. It goes in other countries, only Austria is unfortunately on the dive site in climate policy. Mr Federal Minister, we would provide even more competence for you. We would have considered climate protection to be a need because I believe climate protection must have a different position in the state and, above all, within the government. I note that this government is totally incapable of dealing with this issue. Yesterday, in the EU's main committee on energy policy, the Federal Chancellor did not even raise the question of climate protection – not even for questioning. The responsibilities are fragmented. They make a climate protection law, in which no one is ultimately responsible. If this continues, Austria will unfortunately remain the final light. For me, as an environmental protectionist, this is extremely embarrassing. I think that just a country like Austria would be predestined to be a leader in climate protection and to show something to other regions all over the world. We are also expected at the climate conferences to show how to reconcile prosperity and climate protection. It's possible. Who can make it if not a country like Austria? With this government we will not make it. That's why: Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19540	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19561	Mr President. Minister! Dear colleague Brunner! Recalling yesterday's EU main committee: A large part of the debate was that we discussed in a very large way and also decided unanimously that Austria is fighting at European level to ensure that nuclear power plants and CCS technology are not used as sustainable measures for climate protection. Today, the Federal Chancellor has led this fight at European level with all vehemence and with all the emphasis, as well as in the current media reports, in the sense of our discussion yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we going to expect? – Once again, we expect the European Union climate and energy package, which has committed itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20 percent by 2020 compared to the 1990 comparative period – 30 percent in many discussions. The Austrian Energy Strategy provides that we stabilise final energy consumption at 2005 level, increase the share of renewable energy to 34 percent, and increase energy efficiency by at least 20 percent. These are goals that may be too few for one or another. Nevertheless, these are ambitious objectives, which must also be seen in the economic and social context. If the experts of the Federal Environment Agency believe that these strategic objectives are quite appropriate – I quote – to “reduce greenhouse gas emissions significantly”. Now to the law itself: Mr Jannach! To your criticism: At the time, you did not agree to the Climate Change Act because the mandatory sector objectives were missing and bodies were set up. In the Climate Advisory Council we have as Parlamen- the possibility of working together with NGOs, scientists and social partners to develop the sectoral objectives. Now we have – late but still – the Annex 2, which sets out the mandatory sectoral objectives. It is now up to the countries, the federal government and the individual sectors to meet the defined objectives. Our goal is to achieve the two-degree goal. This means that the increase in global temperature is limited to less than two degrees. That's an ambitious goal. This is an objective that can only be achieved jointly in a kind of global policy. Austria is making its contribution. But we also need alliance partners at international level. With today's novelle, we are taking another step in the field of climate protection, which I support. However, I would like to tell the Minister that there is still a great need for action to develop ambitious climate protection perspectives for the objectives by 2050.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19606	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19628	Mr President. High house! The Climate Protection Act has also been very intensive in our work in the Environment Committee, and, Minister, there we have crushed it with many arguments that have already been mentioned. The only thing that has now been concreteised is the sectoral limits on greenhouse gas emissions. This has now been determined – but that is all – in Appendix 2, which is the core of this novel. [[President Dr. Graf will again take over the presidency.]] However, the General Criticism of the Climate Change Act remains fully up-to-date: There are no clear responsibilities. The only thing that is clearly regulated, Minister for the Environment, is that you, as Minister for the Environment, lead the negotiations for climate protection. No na – it is still missing to add that in the law. That's the only thing that's clearly regulated. There are no clear targets within the sectors: Who? Until when? What measures must be taken? There's no such thing as that. And there are no sanctions there either, Mr. Minister. [[Abg. New builder: There are not those consciously!]] If the federal government and the country are fighting again, who has what to do, I can well imagine what comes out: hot air, against climate protection, but certainly not a corresponding reduction in greenhouse gases. This criticism also confirms to the Court of Auditors that, if these responsibilities are not met, we need to buy back certificates from 2008 to 2012. That was a small thing of 650 million – so loose, we buy it if that won't get hold of it. That will be the case again. The Chamber of Labour generally says – and that should be the SPÖ behind the ears –: These reduction obligations were established without any material basis. Without any material basis – aha, that is the policy of this federal government! It goes even further: BMVIT – the Minister of Foreign Affairs was here before – also said in the opinion that there was no accreditation. - Don't you talk to each other? Then comes the Minister's argument: Well, it was in the Council of Ministers! – Yes, you have politically accredited it, but factually, professionally you have not chordd it. This is to be criticized, and this is also the case in many other opinions. The only thing that would be really important, instead of dealing with toothless paperists who will never get hold of, would be to have a proper energy policy in that country. This is the best climate protection at all. But there is also a lack of courage in many areas. Example Ecocurrent expansion: Why can't you go here and rebuild the eco-power promotion to say, for example, in the field of photovoltaics, that every house builder on his roof can install a photovoltaic system for his own power consumption and get a promotion for it? This should be for self-consumption, rather than putting large photovoltaic fields on the green meadow, where a few more are added to the revenue accordingly. A proper energy efficiency law will or should be adopted here shortly. What's going on? – What is available here is not an energy efficiency law, but a zero law. That doesn't matter at all. On the contrary: The industry fears even correspondingly strong location disadvantages, and where you can do something, you don't do anything, there are only pure declarations of intent there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the field of transport, the entire government would also be required: E-mobility keyword, public transport extension. There's nothing going on either, you're still in the kids' shoes. There is also a lack of courage for massive expansion of small and - I say this extra - also of large hydropower. It'll be a little fun for the greens when I say: Why don't we build Hainburg? - Yes, let's build Hainburg! In the end, we save the Au and the Auhirs, because otherwise it will dig the Danube. These are things you will need to discuss. Or: What about the development in Austria? If you want eco-electric power plants, you also need appropriate pipes. Nor does one have the courage to enforce appropriate decisions before country elections, for example in Salzburg, even though the laws would be in place. I am excited whether this strange Jamaican coalition between ÖVP, Greens and Stronach is going a little further. So I already congratulate the Greens for putting themselves in bed with the Stronach team and wish them much success. You see, Minister, there is a lot to be done, and you are not doing anything. Therefore, we will reject the Climate Protection Act as a toothless papermaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19673	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Windy word. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19695	Mr President. Federal Minister! The Climate Protection Act is a key element of our government programmes in the field of the environment. It clearly foresees CO2 equivalence reductions with the clear target of minus 16 percent based on 2005 for the next seven years. Clear targets have also been negotiated with the individual departments. To current events: Those who have experienced the thunderstorm about Vienna yesterday must admit that we have, of course, a climate shift – hail, heat, drought and the like. But what you often forget is that even increased pest pressure is there. Let us think of the "Buchsbaumzünsler", which now appears, for example, in the whole of Austria and eats everything together. Similarly, we will have with the corn root drill also in the corn, which is of course also there by the climate shift. [[Call at BZÖ: That's such a fool!]] The Observatory in Hawaii has analyzed that CO2 increases are extreme. The “Kurier” wrote yesterday that the climate debate was unexy. It may be, but it's important anyway. It is a process that runs for decades and is therefore creeping. It is very complex and complicated, and often the scientists too are not agreeable, but also – and this fits in with today's debate – the constant alarmism, this yelling at it dulls. A flight traveler does not want to be permanently placed as a climate criminal. Today in the morning at coffee, I almost got the chicken stuck in my mouth. I have heard the "Ö3" advertising to switch to oil heating. In my opinion, heating with heating oil, hot with coloured diesel is the most intelligent thing you can do to burn this miracle substance diesel, just to create energy, namely heat from it. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We need a clear impulse for renewable energy forms, for biomass, for the sun in the area of heat, for heat. It is important to create green jobs, create income, find crisis-resistant energy forms, make security of supply and ultimately serve the environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19734	The next speaker was Mr Tadler. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19756	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Climate protection has not been a niche issue for a long time, we know that since the last special meeting. Minister! With this government template, with which a breakdown of maximum greenhouse gas emissions into sectors is carried out, you have not succeeded in having a big throw. Apparently, the EU wants to control this closely. Austria is obliged to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in sectors not subject to emissions trading by 16 percent by 2020 compared with 2005. But how should this really be possible, ladies and gentlemen? Mr. Minister, in the Committee you talked about the division of the sector. I honestly take it from you that it was a difficult task in the federal states. They spoke of poetry and truth in the federal states. They also talked about how you all got into the boat. I do not know how you succeeded then, but it seems to be decided across the federal states. The comments of the countries in this respect – we have already heard this – are clear. It has been repeatedly pointed out from the countries that the reduction targets are in no relation to the source parts, especially in the border area – we have already heard – where tank tourism flourishes and around 5 million tonnes are to be estimated. Mr Widmann has also said that the Court of Auditors has rightly criticized you for not pursuing clear objectives. The Chamber of Labour said that everything had come about without any material basis. The opinion – once again – of BMVIT, in turn, spoke of the fact that nothing was agreed at all. – In short: a big mess with competence failures. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19789	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19810	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr deputies, if nothing had been agreed with BMVIT, you can assume that the law would not have passed through the Council of Ministers. So much about your statements that are breaking up, because otherwise that would not have come to the High House until here. Climate change is clearly a threat, but many do not. In Sunday's speeches, many in Austria and also around the world conjure up the importance of climate change. Alone, it happens too little, otherwise we would continue in climate protection in Austria and also worldwide. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Self-knowledge is the first way to improve!]] This also applies to greens and others who have still not recognized in their retro-policy that Kyoto was terminated in 2012 and we are now in a new period worldwide. International climate negotiations are a tough matter. The UN has long tried to get 195 member states into the boat. The European Union and Austria are the pioneers. Without exaggeration, the developing countries see us as such, because we are the only ones – the continent, the European Union – with climate change targets by 2020. Many others don't. Many industrialised countries outside the European Union also adopt binding objectives. That is how we remain as a Community and many developing countries that are relying on us. The big players like China, like India, like the USA, like Russia have no obligations. Nevertheless, it has been reached internationally that there will be a climate change agreement that will enter into force in 2020 by 2015. The negotiations are clearly very tough, that is undisputed. Many there resist. But there is no alternative. In Austria too, there are many who put their heads in the sand and say: A thunderstorm there, a flood there, that's not gonna be so bad anyway. It's not like that. We must act, and we can also change Austria. And we also have successes: The first success in the previous year was that economic growth has decoupled from energy consumption. It is precisely there that we do not have economic growth and at the same time increasing energy consumption. That was successful. That means we're on a right path. We are also on the road to change our energy system. With a share of 31 percent of renewable energy in the overall energy mix, we are fourth in the European Union. We also support many countries. That is not a matter of course. Especially if the Heads of State or Government are now sitting together, there will be a discussion: We have the EU climate and energy targets for 2020. How's 2030 going on? There are many states that say: Yes, we should have a climate change target, but we do not need a renewable development target. Many countries say: We need energy, we need cheap energy, and we can achieve it by relying on nuclear power. They want technology neutrality, which means renewable energy would be equated with nuclear power. Then the nuclear power can also be promoted by state resources. On the other hand, I voted in favour of Energy Minister Mitterlehner in favour of our joint informal Council in Ireland, and Austria is against it as a whole. But much else is happening in Europe, and Austria is at the head of those states that are opposed to nuclear power and renewable energy. But this fight is becoming more difficult and complex. But we're still on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also the way to understand the climate protection law here. We are the second state in the European Union to Britain, which has a climate protection law at all. Why did this come about? – Because many in Austria have not taken climate protection seriously, different at the federal level, different sectors, but also in the federal states. It was a great concern for me to get into the boat, the federal offices and also the federal states, which was also successful. In 2011, we passed the Climate Change Act. It was important that all are first binding on climate protection and work together in one direction. [[Abg. May. Brunner: It is not binding!]] Since 2005, greenhouse gas emissions have been falling. Of course you can make yourself and say: A law does not save a kilo of CO2. That's ridiculous polemics. The greenhouse gas emissions are falling. They would have to lower, admit, but still the trend is up to a year when the economic upturn was there, so that greenhouse gas emissions are falling. ==References====External links== Now we're in a new period. They can continue to stand in the political polemics: Kyoto, and you would have, and what wasn't everything! We draw the consequences from it and are now, from 2013, in a new climate protection period that is going on by 2020 – EU climate and energy targets. The clear objective of Austria is to play a leading role in climate protection, that we are among those countries that are at the forefront of climate protection in Europe. That's what we're gonna do. In this respect, we are also for targets by 2030. With this Climate Change Act, this novel was crucial – and that was the great task – that the sectors take responsibility for the first time. Transport, energy and economy, agriculture, waste management, space heating – the sectors are responsible and not a single ministry. This is also true because it is a social concern. The sectors have reduction paths, and the difference to the Kyoto period is that this time they are billed annually and not at the end of the period. 2013, 2014, 2015 and the following climate change targets are met. It was therefore so important that we anchor sector objectives. Each sector – transport, the economy – should show how much it meets the 2020 greenhouse gas targets. That was the first point. The second point: measures. I don't think it makes sense to put measures into law. If new technologies occur, you need to change laws. We agreed with the federal states on a catalogue of measures. Together with the federal states, a catalogue of measures has been drawn up for each sector to reduce greenhouse gases. The special feature of this package of measures is that it will be evaluated as early as next year, i.e. whether measures in transport, in the economy, in the building sector and so on really achieve the objectives or whether they need to be strengthened. You need to see this before you make yourself here and talk everything in the ground and ground. That's your right, but it's still wrong, because we've achieved something. The following is the climate responsibility mechanism: The Federal Government and the Länder have agreed that, if we do not achieve the objectives, there will be a cost reduction. What is still running is that the federal states want to debate this in the context of the financial compensation. However, they must assume their responsibilities in any case. I have to say something about the fact that some representatives of the opposition complain that there are various bodies here. Firstly, the Climate Change Advisory Council and the Climate Change Committee have been organized in such a way that the parliamentary parties are inside. It wouldn't be bad for you to come once, because you've never been there in many cases. They were representatives of the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Greens, but there was little from other parties. Creating oneself here and chatting about climate change, but not coming to the meetings, is a thin idea. The social partners and federal representatives are involved in the development of strategies together. That is why these things are very well coordinated. If you're not there, you can't vote, but then you have to take note of what others decide. We have decided and said that we are making these packages of measures. It is clear that we must achieve our climate objectives – not for the sake of the objectives, but because it is important to ensure quality of life while at the same time changing Austria towards an economy that is low in carbon, reducing greenhouse gases, creating new jobs, green jobs, sustainable jobs, for ecology. Thank you very much for the cooperation of all those who have contributed positively here.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19870	Mr Pirklhuber is speaking as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19892	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Before I refer to your comments, I would like to refer to the speech by my environmental spokeswoman Christiane Brunner, because she has really put this very clearly to the point: Climate protection and climate protection measures are the major challenge of the 21st century. ==References== If I remember today's speech by Federal Minister Mitterlehner, it was at least much more ambitious in terms of the export opportunities of green technologies than your own analysis. In your own analysis, Mr. Berlakovich, you have made it clear – a certain part of self-knowledge is obviously sent through – that you have said it happens too much to retro policy. You're right. This retro policy, however, is the one you have to answer. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Yes, earlier, that's the past!]] - You haven't been in office since yesterday. They are talking about the past, the current climate protection policy, Mr. Federal Minister, against the background of this dilemma of not reaching Kyoto targets and characterized by drag, is simply scandalous! That's not how it is, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, if you want to talk about sectoral objectives now, I agree with you that these are necessary and correct. But let us look at what is contained in the goals. The objectives go beyond current greenhouse gas emissions. In the industry sector, for example, there were 6.1 million tonnes of CO2 in 2011. 6.5 million tonnes are planned for 2020. That's 400 000 tons more. In comparison to 1990, traffic is even expected to increase by 66 percent. And you're talking about ambitious goals! Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly not ambitious, and you have to hold on to it. This is part of the green criticism, because there are other ambitious goals, including transparency of the process. Nordrhein-Westfalen places all working protocols on the public network. Any citizen, any citizen, can actively participate in this process. We, the parties, are in the Climate Change Advisory Council, but not in the Committee, Mr Federal Minister! And to the transparency of the processes: What happens to our requests is not understandable. So you see: If you want to be taken seriously, you must ensure more transparency, more public and the discussion process that citizens in this country expect and deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why it is about really developing an environmental ministry and even getting it on the way that organizes the objectives of a citizen participation and a social set-up in this country. Here I refer once again to the environmental spokesperson of the Greens, Christiane Brunner, who points this out – not only since today or yesterday, like some previous speakers – that we need an independent Ministry of the Environment. Christiane Brunner has been doing this for a few years, and she is quite right: We need an independent Environment Ministry, and we will also get it, Mr. Federal Minister, earlier than you believe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19928	Mr Berlakovich spoke on another point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19950	Mr Pirklhuber, I wish you good luck. In order to clarify your 2011 statements here, please see how the truth is With regard to the EU climate and energy targets that we have shared as a European Union and each Member State, not the year 2011, of which you are fabricating here, is crucial, but the years 2008 to 2010. [[The speaker shows a graphic]] 2008, 2009 and 2010 are taken on average, and this is the basis for what the reduction path looks like. He's registered here. It must reduce all sectors, and so it goes down. So don't tell me any fairy tales!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e19992	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 2295 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, in order to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Title Law!]] [[19:24:47]] 16. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (2252, D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000 and repealing the Federal Law on the Environmental Senate (2314 d.b.) 17. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (2290, p._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Emissions Certificate Act 2011, the Federal Air Re Content Act, the Environmental Information Act, the Federal Environmental Liability Act, the Chemicals Act 1996, the Old Load Rehabilitation Act, the Waste Management Act 2002 and the Water Law 1959 (Administrability Adjustment Act – Environment, Waste, Water) (2315 d.b.) 18. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (2292, D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Environmental Promotion Act, the Emissions Certificate Act 2011, the Aquaculture Promotion Act 1985, the Environmental Management Act and the Water Law 1959 (Environmental Act 2013) (2316 d.b.) 19. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (2293, D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the 2002 Waste Management Act (AWG-Novelle Industrial Emissions) and the Old Load Rehabilitation Act (2317 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20046	We now come to the items 16 to 19 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. In order to make a print error correction on point 17, I would like to give the rapporteur, Mr Deputies Ing. Schultes, the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20078	Mr President. High house! I present the following pressure error correction to the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government's template Administrative Justice Adjustment Act – Environment, Waste and Water in 2315 of the Supplements: "To the rapporteur for the plenary, Deputy Ing. Hermann Schultes chosen.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20107	There has been no oral reporting on the further points. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20132	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, Federal Minister Berlakovich, five years of environmental protection on the subject of environment, water, climate you are now behind. In fact, after five years you would have to draw the summaries, not protect the environment and the climate and the water, but the environment, climate and water would have to be protected from you. [[Demonstrative applause in Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Exactly!]] You have truly failed in the last five years, and you have not done anything. And if you're talking about a retro-politics here, you can only think of yourself. Because in view of what you've done so far – and I'm not talking about the poor bees you have millions of times on your conscience – it's really incredible to make yourself up here and criticize everyone else without even saying, yes, we could have done more here. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] On the agenda items that we have to deal with today, there are some points – such as the Environmental Impact Assessment Act – in which we consider that we have the typical phenomenon of an Austrian Federal Government. On the one hand, it deals with environmental impact assessments when they are border-near nuclear power plants and border-by-border nuclear waste storage sites, which are extensions of nuclear power plants, have not been at all for over ten years. There is also no excuse for the government to make any explanations to our neighbours as to why we can't do anything here. At the same time, we have a request for a change to the EIA law, which is that we should apply the most limited means for an industrial location according to our legal viewpoint and the legal point of view, which is completely negated here. We have numerous provisions in the trade order which could have been applied here, such as in § 74 of the Commercial Code, as well as in Sections 77, 79 and 81. All these paragraphs could have been put in place here in order to prevent, for example, cross-border ski areas as in Upper Austria from being massively threatened by this change in the future. We will not be able to achieve this cross-border with the Czech Republic by today's decision of this ski area. This is what I am giving you for this decision-making process on your way. We have just received an amendment just a few minutes ago, according to which – you hear and marvel – old plants, which should have been renovated by 2015 under the Water Law Act, should suddenly receive an extension until 2021 – that is, for six years – which already massively endangers the environment. As a liberal, we will not give our consent to such a presentation, Minister of State Berlakovich. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should like to make a brief comment on today's EU session. So if you follow here from Austria, what happens in Brussels or Strasbourg, you can only shake your head. At a time when Chernobyl and Fukushima have been crying out all over the world and one has hoped that people will come to reason, at a time when Germany is changing to alternative energies, the EU will turn to the cock, support the atomic lobby, will in future subsidise the construction of nuclear power plants and, at the same time, give the free letter for shale gas reduction. This is a development, ladies and gentlemen, since I would have expected more words from Austrian environmentalists in Europe than those that have fallen in Brussels today. I didn't think it was very much too much for me. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you say at the last item on the agenda that the Emissions Certificate Act is being amended, I am too little. And if you say that the Upper Austrian Environmental Procuratorship even strongly exhorts constitutional law in this bill, then you cannot expect the consent of the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20197	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20219	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, here in the House! If we are discussing the Environmental Impact Assessment Act today, it is because a special measure is necessary. As a result of the introduction of the Federal Administrative Courts, an institution which we had for a very long time in the environmental field, namely the Environmental Senate, has lost its need and is to be transferred to the new Federal Administrative Courts. The Environmental Senate itself was planned as a provisional body at its time – and obviously proved itself to be a vocational body. The Environmental Senate has done its job well and has therefore been further developed to this day. In the Environmental Senate, judges are not mainly judges, but they have worked as judges in the context of secondary employment and have obviously developed things well. The duration of the proceedings became increasingly shorter, the cooperation with project operators improved, and finally the legal background was developed properly. I would therefore like to express my particular thanks to all those who have developed, designed and implemented this environmental senate in these many years. Good work has been done, and many proper environmental impact assessments have been carried out. Thank you to all the ladies and gentlemen. – I am delighted about the applause of the House for these people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness with FPÖ, SPÖ and Greens over the first delayed applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the exciting point: Environmental work and environmental policy in our country have a lot of work to do with welding and have to do with people developing their projects very, very neatly. For you of the Greens – now two, three more are in the hall than before – environmental policy is the great spectacle, the show and the daily occasion to demand more laws, more regulations, more bans. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner]] For us, environmental policy is what can be implemented with a sense of mind and mind, which ultimately improves the daily environmental situation in the real world of people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] And that's worth more than a cheap laugh, that's a good thank you to those who really try to do it. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have learned a lot in the history of this environmental impact assessment. We have learned how to deal with the various topics properly. I can just say on the subject of water: Here we know how we deal with large projects, we know how to deal with the Water Framework Directive, we can actually see and measure progress in the water quality everywhere, while at the same time increasing the value added from the use of precious water. And this is an important story: economy, create and protect. That's what we need to do. My previous speaker, the colleague of the Freedom Party, has been excited because an amendment proposal will be tabled, the plants which have been in operation for some time will continue to be allowed to operate for a longer period of time. Do you know what this is about? This is about small- and house-clearing facilities by private individuals, who built them – legally neat – years ago. The plant still works today, and the owner would have to bring it to a high standard if he wanted to convert it to a lot of money. Perhaps in the community is just a channel project in preparation, but your freeman wants the little people with environmental policy seccs. Heartfelt greeting to the Freedom Party, so looks your true face! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that we are continuing with the environmental impact assessment. I am very pleased that the Federal Administrative Court is being set up, and I wish this important court a good transfer, a good work and, ultimately, a good service for Austria, because we need the right of appeal for citizens, for civil society and for all those who have legal objections when a project is carried out. Because only with good testing can good projects be achieved permanently. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20300	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Brunner. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20321	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers, if you still look at us from home! Access to environmental policy has been raised. Mr Schultes, 15 legislative instruments are dealt with in these agenda items. You have now referred to one, namely the EIA law, which is very important, especially when it comes to the access to environmental policy. This law regulates the possibility of participation and the examination of installations for their environmental compatibility. I think that's exactly what it's all about: Examining environmental compatibility – it should only happen what is truly environmentally friendly – and participation opportunities for people who volunteer for the environment in their spare time, with their own money – whether in NGOs, whether in citizen initiatives or simply as an arrant. Thank you very much, very many in Austria – not in the government, but in Austria – and I would like to thank all these people here, because this commitment is very much needed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The access to environmental policy is also evident in what is written in this law. If you have proper access, you support those people who are committed to the environment. I believe that access to environmental policy can also be measured by what kind of interests one works with – perhaps with environmental NGOs and citizens’ initiatives or perhaps with industrial associations and various chemical lobbys. [[Abg. Ing. Schools: One work, the other work around!]] I think it is now very clear in Austria how the roles are distributed here, and the citizens can now, I believe, take a very good picture. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, as chairman of the Committee on the Environment, it is also my concern to discuss here – I have already said – that 15 legislative acts are dealt with in these three agenda items. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: Four agenda items!]] I think that shows the way the government deals with environmental policy. In the past environmental committees, we may have had one, two government documents – if any – on the agenda during this period. On the other hand, innumerable opposition requests were made. Now, in the last committee – the legislative period is going to end – more than 20 government documents have been awakened and are to be won through here today. I imagine a serious, continuous environmental work differently. Unfortunately, in the short debate at the end of the agenda, it is not possible to deal with all these legislative instruments, as they would deserve and as necessary. It's always said: Well, that's just a few adjustments on administrative jurisdiction. Yes, of course they are adaptations. But if you look at it more precisely – and that is what we have done, despite the abundance and the shortness of time, of course, as we always do, and not only in the environmental field, but also in all other areas – then you will find changes that are very negative, especially as regards citizens' participation and environmental interests. I will now address a few “highlights” in the negative sense. The first is the EIA Act, which has already been addressed. The participation opportunities for citizens have not improved at all, on the contrary: They have worsened, especially as regards the investigation procedure. [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: That's not true!]] As EIA laws from other countries have been addressed here: The Austrian Environmental Impact Assessment Act is also not EU-compliant. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Schools.]] The EIA Act introduces or maintains the right to continue operations, which I believe has nothing to do with the rule of law. It lays down that, for example, if the administrative court takes a decision on a large road project – i.e. no more valid building permit – the construction can still be continued for up to a year. Where is the rule of law? [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: What would you like?]] – If there is no notice, then it must not be built! This applies to every house builder, and this must also apply to road projects! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This law does not provide for an energy efficiency bid. It is not foreseen that energy efficiency should be an approval criterion for installations. That's what I'm asking myself: Does the right hand in this government still know what the left hand is doing? Federal Minister Mitterlehner makes an energy efficiency law, in the Environmental Impact Assessment Act of Minister Berlakovich this does not even occur. So I wonder what access to environmental and energy policy is like here. To the Water Law Act. A very up-to-date example: On the Black Sulm there are demonstrations because there the excavators rise to destroy one of the most valuable natural spaces we have at all. With this novelle we would have had the opportunity to stop it, namely by making the hydroeconomic planning body – which had already introduced a successful vocation, but which was then rejected, since the body is not free of direction – disallowed. This would allow us to operate environmental protection effectively. To § 53 Wasserrechtsgesetz. Here too, we can see how access is not only to environmental policy but also to policy in general. Planning, framework planning, will be outsourced to the economy. Energy companies can deliver hydroeconomic plans on what they consider a power plant to be necessary. This also has special weight and is then evaluated in the same way in procedures. It can't be that the energy industry and the companies are exhibiting public interest themselves here. A framework plan is the responsibility of the public authorities, Minister. I would have asked you to take this energy-efficient and ecological planning into your own hands and not leave it to the corporations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: You don't believe that!]] – Yes, of course I do! I take what we represent seriously, unlike you. In general, the party status of NGOs and citizens is massively criticised by all laws and is far from sufficient. We also do not comply with the Aarhus Convention. The information to citizens is also insufficient – Environmental Information Act keyword. We have seen your access to it, Minister Berlakovich, with bees. However, there is generally no legal certainty in the Environmental Information Act. Citizens cannot rely on the fact that they receive at least a communication or a notice, even if they are not provided with any information. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is about citizens having more opportunities to participate, but also greater legal certainty when it comes to obtaining information on environmental issues. All of this would be important steps in addition to many others that we cannot highlight today, as I have said. But it shows again: For a serious environmental debate here in the House, in Parliament and especially for a serious environmental policy, Austria urgently needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20484	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and stands for negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20552	Mr Plessl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf 2 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20573	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Brunner, there are four days. Orders: 16 to 19. I think you said three. I know you're talking about everything bad, but there's not only bad things, as you always say, but there's also a lot of positive things that we're implementing today with the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. One point that is very important to me as mayor is that the 2011 budgetary cuts, especially the reduction in the water sector, are significantly reduced. This is an important point for the municipalities. It is nice that our endurance, but also my commitment to the Committee and to the plenary sessions, and that the municipalities and the municipalities together with the cities in Austria will receive €45 million for these necessary investments in 2013; in 2014 it is even €100 million again! Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely these necessary investments for maintenance, but also for enlargement, that are an important area. We need to support this, otherwise the responsible mayors and local authorities would have had to raise a fee – which, of course, we reject. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The promotion of the urban water industry has enormously important economic effects: domestic value added will be increased, local labour market will be revived, local and regional quality of life will be safeguarded, but Austria's attractiveness as a tourist and economic location will also be increased. A very important point is also that the ecological state of the water is improved. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, another approach: We should see that the Ministry's investment survey report is used as a basis in the financial compensatory negotiations to be carried out in order to enable further investment to be made for the municipalities as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20621	The next speaker is Mr Deputies List. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20643	Mr President. Mr Noch-Bundesminister Berlakovich! High house! This joint debate of environmental government documents allows for a targeted reading at the last special meeting. Now, a novelle is also to amend the Environmental Information Act. This law, and above all its interpretation by Federal Minister Berlakovich, is always at the heart of hot discussions. Hot discussions also take place about the current bee dying. That's a huge scandal! Under the pretext of data protection and official secrecy, Noch-Minister Berlakovich for a long time deliberately refused any information about the use of pesticides. [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: That's not true! They're precepts!]] Berlakovich and the ÖVP pour out our environment with tons of poisons and destroy lives. Only on public pressure has Poison Minister Berlakovich complied with his damn information obligation. [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: This is unheard of, such insults in this house!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Citizens have a right to know what poisons, which pesticides are brought into the ecosystem in what quantities with what consequences. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the period of just one year, farmers – especially the Austrian People's Party – used 10 600 kg, 1.6 tonnes of neonicotinoides. It's a well-known nerve poison. These are poisons that enter the food cycle under the tolerance of the ÖVP and, for the time being, massively endanger the survival of the important bees. Minister Berlakovich threatens with the genetic engineering cult and does not look for alternatives to healthy agriculture. Alternatives such as crop rotation changes are sufficiently present, but are constantly blocked by the ÖVP. Berlakovich is a lobbyist of poison companies and dependent on them. Berlakovich stands for the waste of taxpayers in millions. Berlakovich has roasted at least €29 million for ads for his self-representation, for his vanity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schools.]] This is an immeasurable one, which is also very, very difficult to tell from the Court of Auditors. Berlakovich is constantly in a conflict of interest between the environment and agriculture. The BZÖ immediately calls for a separation of competence, where we are at a level with the Greens and the Freemans. Berlakovich has long failed as an environmental and agricultural minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Also in climate protection – we have already discussed this today – and in anti-atomic policy, Minister Berlakovich has failed. He's a retired minister. That is why the entire opposition here in the High House Gift Minister Berlakovich has recently expressed distrust. Unfortunately, Berlakovich is not sent to the desert by the coalition partner, the Social Democratic. They issue a red letter of freedom so that Berlakovich can fix his mistakes in five months until the election. – This period is far too short. Outflow Minister Berlakovich needs decades for his failure in nature and environment to repair the damage caused. According to rumors, the proceeds are in any case imminent: Mr Auer, who is not here now, is questioning Grillitsch or school people; we have already discussed it today. A woman is also called Elisabeth Köstinger, apparently with regard to the ÖVP female ratio. These persons are now being traded as successors of this failed Environment Minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] Mr Berlakovich, take the hat with the last spark of resistance. Step back! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on these four government proposals: These are all inadequate, and they are also a moral picture of your failed environmental policy. Therefore, the BZÖ also rejects these templates.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20717	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20739	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Mr. Liste! It was not a very convincing speech, which you gave of yourself, and which you left very bad with our deserved Minister for the Environment here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I don't understand a word! Please talk a little louder!]] – I like to do that! First: This EIA procedure has already been discussed in a sufficient way today. It is certainly the case that administrative jurisdiction can now bring more efficiency also in the countries and, of course, at the federal level. Secondly, on Mrs Brunner's amendment, I would like to clarify a few points and explain why the ÖVP will not vote here: First of all, the European Commission is working out a directive on this and we are waiting for the Commission's opinion and then we are taking the decisions here. Secondly, with the six-month period, § 73 AVG is usually not exploited, and therefore an urgent change is probably not necessary. Thirdly, the amendment only covers the subject matter in time, but does not cover the whole legal matter and would thus bring more legal uncertainty than would be planned here from the outset. All in all, however, as I believe, we are doing well with the effects that the authorities are currently experiencing, and this would not be so easy with regard to information and the modest management of the administration. Let me conclude by saying something: It is here spoken of as a country which has environmental or environmental standards of a developing country. In fact, in Austria, from my point of view, really committed climate and environmental policy is being made. Finally, in connection with CO2 emissions as a country in the middle of Europe, we have a corresponding transit traffic and, above all, CO2 taxation by tank exports, which, of course, improves the balance sheet accordingly. In addition, I would like to point out how many measures have been taken, particularly by industry, but also by the small and medium-sized economies, to reduce their emissions and, in particular, CO2 emissions. A large number of investments have been made to improve the overall quality of wastewater. In Austria, the lakes and especially the rivers are in an enviable situation within the European countries, and this is not least due to the commitment of our industrial and economic enterprises. We are also in the forefront of the European countries with regard to renewable energy, and I can say that Austria has become a truly exemplary environmental country.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20781	The next speaker was Mr Tadler. 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20818	Mr President. High house! Our enthusiasm for this New Administrative Jurisdiction 2012, which has been sold as the largest administrative reform ever, is now very limited, ladies and gentlemen. Now that changes are being made in respect of each instance, more and more experts from the areas of legislation concerned are reporting and are drawing attention to problems, Minister. All ministries repeatedly stress, Mr. Schultes, that the impact assessment of the institution of the Federal Administrative Court has already been carried out with the Administrative Jurisdiction Novelle 2012 and the Federal Administrative Court Law 10/2013. With this in mind, the question arises of how far this impact assessment is actually carried out for the individual laws. We from the Stronach team are always always for administrative simplification, so that procedures are simplified and administrative costs are reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20853	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20875	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Good, Mrs Brunner, that you came back here! First of all, stand in front of us and say that we should have a proper environmental debate, and then you were not here with the last speakers to discuss it. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I'm here!]] The topic of the seriousness of your debate on the environment: First you complain, and then you as a speaker are not at all present at the discussion! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If the laws to be treated are too much for you, then you must stop setting up a tooth to finish the laws instead of complaining here that there is too much work in the environmental field! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where is your clubman? The head is never in a debate!]] In any event, most of the laws that are being modernised here refer to the Novelle Administrative Jurisdiction, and this also concerns the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. The Environmental Senate, which was established as an independent authority at the Ministry of Life, is transferred to the Federal Administrative Court. The Environment Senate has developed an excellent reputation over the years and decades, and I thank the members of the Environment Senate and also the staff of the Ministry of Life who have done excellent work. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have made a number of novels here in this House an EIA law. Everything was driven by the effort to achieve both, on the one hand, to speed up procedures, and on the other, to strengthen citizens' rights as well. That was also the concern of the last novels that we have dealt with these things, and the effect is that we have achieved procedural reductions in many areas without losing quality. The fact that the head of the authorities can determine the end of the procedure and that there is no need to re-commence opinions, which would cost a lot of money and also a lot of time, was not intended because one wants to push through projects, but because it makes sense to save money and bureaucracy and to achieve more efficient procedures. I thank you for always being carried together, at least by substantial parts of this House. We are called on to work more efficiently in the administration as a whole. By the way, we have made a number of novices that we are dealing with here, together with the federal states, in order to make unnecessary procedures more efficient and to be able to deregulate things. For example, wet dredging – to name only the water law law – goes to the district administration authority and there is a simplification in the area of water monitoring. This was a very long process that we have dealt with with with the federal states. The Ministry of Life was very affected by many laws, as was the Ministry of Economic Affairs. But we have achieved a common approach to making these procedures more efficient. In the EIA Act, we have ensured that the best practice of appeal is maintained both by legal parties and by environmental attorneys and by citizens' initiatives and environmental organisations. This is very important to strengthen citizens' rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have repeatedly spoken about this, and this has been mentioned in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: They complain that, as it were, frameworks can be presented in the Water Law Act. – This is not an innovation, it has been so far. Read the old law! It's been like that before. And you don't understand and obviously don't want to understand – or simply operate polemics here – that this right is for everyone, not just the hydropower operators. Rather, anyone who is interested in water economic objectives can present a framework plan. Please read the law! Look This is what you're doing, and don't one-sidedly paint any devil on the wall here! NGOs interested in water economic work also have the right to submit such frameworks. Furthermore, the EU Water Framework Directive states that no deterioration of water should occur. – That means: No matter who submits a framework plan, whether it is the energy industry or whether it is NGOs: The state of water must not be worsened. So that has already been done, and this is now still contained in the provision. By the way, I think it is remarkable if you now have power plants in the joint government programme in Tyrol, which you have constantly criticized! They have a nice list of power plants, such as Kaunertal or Sellrain-Silz and others. You'll see how you'll behave. Here you may speak differently, and then in Tyrol. It will be interesting to follow that! In conclusion: In the urban water sector – and you have mentioned it – we have common concern that we keep the high standard on the one hand regarding waste water disposal on the other. The municipalities have a considerable financial effort, including in the rehabilitation of existing facilities. In this respect, we fully agree. And also in the water supply sector, in the course of the rehabilitation package we had to link, we have postponed projects to help save the federal government, the countries and also the communities. However, appropriate measures were necessary. We have raised the money from our home through efficiency in relation to projects that have not been made, but have not been used for anything else, but have been spent on the settlement water industry. You mentioned it: 45 million € will be this year, 100 million € will be next year. It is also an impulse for the local construction industry to have a job, but above all to be able to maintain the high standard of environmental protection, water supply and waste water disposal. – Thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20943	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Brunner to speak. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e20967	Mr President. The Federal Minister has said that it has always been the case that energy groups can define framework plans. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Incorrect! I said that it was always possible to present water framework plans!]] The energy companies, too. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: All!]] I'm actually correcting: To date, § 53 has stated: ‘Whoever is interested in the achievement of the objectives set out in Sections 30a, (c) and (d) may submit such a plan’. These are deterioration bans, groundwater renovations and environmental objectives. Thus, energy companies are excluded. Now § 53 is the name: “Whoever is interested in the achievement of water economic objectives” and the others. That means: Energy companies have so far been excluded, now they are no longer.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21017	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21038	Minister! As already mentioned, these four items on the agenda are five laws. I'd have to be a magician and speak faster than my colleague Brunner, so I could say more about it. I am mayor, and I am concerned about congratulating our Minister, who will be very much shocked – Mr. List had discussed him almost away – from the bottom of my heart. Thank you for the good cooperation! As mayor, I am very happy about this, especially about the Environmental Adjustment Act and the provisions on urban water management. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'm, like the opposition always says, with people. It's not about the mayor, it's about the community. We are 2 400 inhabitants with us in Radfeld im Inntal, and we are currently working on this. It's about good water quality, and it's also about a good quality of wastewater when we send it back on the journey, namely in the inn or in the groundwater. The quality of the water is not only excellent if it comes from the source well or is high quality groundwater, which also depends on how the wastewater is cleaned. The quality of the water is also very dependent on the quality of the pipes. And as in many other communities, we also have the problem that we have old pipes, i.e. plugs or some kind of pipe bags in which the water is removed and pipes are rusty and so on. In addition, many records were not made in the past. The Bauhof and its employees often do not know where the management is located. We are now in the process of making a digital conductor, and if we do not grow up now and now have €45 million and next year €100 million, then we cannot afford to do this work. In addition, the economic factor is that we have to do a lot of digging work for nothing. Now, if we're going to clean up a road somewhere, tear up the asphalt and know because of the digital cataster and the troubleshooting that there's a line below that is old and has to be exchanged, then we can exchange it at the same time and have not put much in the sand by first asphalting and after a year there's a water pipe break and we have to tear it up again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would just like to add one point: I'm already excited about how the greens will behave. The behavior has already been seen that they will also be for hydropower in the future. I have often pleaded for hydropower here, then they have always argued differently. Now they are in the government in Tyrol. [[Abg. Gahr: Not yet!]] Now I'm looking at this: It will be better for hydropower.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21087	The next speaker was Mr Rosenkranz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21108	Mr President. Federal Minister! My word is about a revision of the Federal Air Re Content Act. This is a request tabled jointly by the government parties and the FPÖ, including a request I made months ago. It is an admittedly very small problem to a small problem of spatial nature. In reality, however, it is about facilitating the winegrowers in a region, especially in the Wachau, which is known for the winegrowing world. It is about the fact that until now the burning of cut-off vine wood and unwanted vegetation on dry grass areas was allowed only in April for reasons of air conservation. This crop section takes place in the cold season, in the really cold months, especially in January and February. And then this cut-off vine would have to remain. But we now know exactly how the climate can develop: In March there are already very warm temperatures, the vegetation begins to grow, and with that there is also a pest infestation. That is to say, because of this provision one was forced to fight with pesticides, in some cases the pests of the vine tree, which is long located in the vineyard, because it was not possible to transport the vine wood, especially mechanically, in these regions. This is a serious manual work that needs to be done, and therefore it was a concern of the winegrowers specifically in the Wachau to collect signatures also in the individual communities, and this went to the Parliament by a large majority to make a change until a resolution of the Lower Austrian Parliament. This amendment has now been taken into account when this period of April was extended to March. This is a practical solution, with which the winegrowers can also live, because at that time the vegetation is not yet as advanced and therefore the vine can be burned unproblematically. This has a side effect: Not only the vegetation, but also the fauna develops at this time, and by burning down in April, there have even been threats of micro- and micro-nitrogens that have developed and nevertheless make up the character of this landscape very well. I am thinking in particular of the well-known emerald dexterity. Overall, I believe that this is a good step that has been built in here. It helps some Austrian, Lower Austrian, Wachauer winemakers. It helps all Winegrowers, who in general have to do their really hard work in steep layers and in difficult situations in order to reach the success product of Austrian wine. I believe that this is a first important step in the direction of doing good to Austrian winegrowers.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21156	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21178	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A preliminary remark on Mr Brunner's speeches as environmental spokesperson of the Greens. Somehow I personally feel that there is a lot of dissatisfaction and frustration there. Perhaps this can be reduced by becoming more focused on the real world of people and perhaps letting something like a little more common sense into the speeches. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Berlakovich, for having succeeded in joint negotiations with Minister of Finance Fekter, President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr. Mödlhammer, and the Chairman of the Fund in Environmental Promotion, Head of State Franz Hiesl, that a total increase of €160 million was possible for the years 2013 and 2014. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner]] This is of course very valuable for the municipalities and cities, but also for the construction industry. It is also positive that it has succeeded in establishing domestic environmental support by 2020, but also in extending the funding for thermal rehabilitation by 2016. With the amendment of the Water Construction Promotion Act, the operational financial activity currently undertaken by the Ministry of Water Protection is outsourced and will in future be carried out or handled by the Environment and Water Management Fund. Flood protection projects will continue to be developed together with the federal states in the future. For the communities concerned, nothing really changes. The responsibilities are clearly defined: BMVIT for Danube and March, the WLV and thus the forestry section of the Ministry of brooks and the environmental section for all further waters. I myself come from a community affected by floods and can only say that the population does not care what pot the money comes from. It is important to help and quickly implement flood protection. Mr Federal Minister, I ask you to continue your efforts to provide adequate financial support for flood protection in the future. Finally, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Read quickly: very well! Now we're still trying to read meaningfully!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] As a reason, I can say that the wet dredging – which has already been mentioned – is actually an administrative simplification. I would also like to make a comment on Mr Neubauer's speech on the extension of the deadline. In reality, this will help many who have been operating environmental protection for decades, especially the small-water waste water treatment plants. It is reasonable to extend the period from 2015 to 2021.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21252	Mr Colleague, briefly: Stay there! You submitted the amendment, but in the last sentence you only quoted Z 23 to 25. From the brackets expression p you still have to say “and Z 27 (§ 99)”. That's important. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21268	Z 27 has been mentioned a hundred percent and I have saved § 99 in parentheses, because it has already been mentioned above, but that is also the case.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21299	I've been certain, and now it's been completed by you. This means that it is sufficiently presented and sufficiently supported. The amendment is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21373	Next speaker: Mr Huber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21394	Mr President. High house! It should not be a matter of being right in politics, but this Federal Minister is very much concerned with keeping right, at the cost of what it wants. Perhaps, if this black and red axis finally ends its discussion, the Minister can also follow the honourable Member. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] With this novelle, the Environmental Information Act is now being amended. That was exactly this law, behind which the Federal Minister has hidden himself, where he has founded his refusal to provide information and where he has said that this law must be noveled. Now it's there, now it's being innovation. Constitutional expert Mayer said: Minister, you don't have to innovation this law, you just have to read it! – Obviously, the Minister has not read it. [[Abg. Hornek: If only you would understand!]] We must already think about it if we have a minister to whom the most recognized constitutional expert in ZiB 24 judges that his behaviour is threatened with imprisonment. The behaviour of this Federal Minister is threatened with imprisonment, and politics in this House is really worrying. [[Call the ÖVP: Do you know that?]] It is embarrassing – for the protocol – when representatives of the ÖVP act like circus clowns. I don't think that's appropriate. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is a subject that affects people. This is a topic that affects our future – and you behave like circus clowns. I'm just telling you: Shame! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] How this federal government is dealing with democracy is also extremely worrying. We had the committee. This committee shall postpone 11 opposition requests. That is the policy of these ÖVPs and the contributors! And the SPÖ is still helping. If I didn't know I'd get an order call, I'd say you'd run the most lying policy there is.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21465	Mr Huber, this was even with an announcement and therefore twice as objectionable. For the expression “most lying party” in the direction of ÖVP, I give you a call for order. Go ahead, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21489	Mr President. I can live with it, because it really is about the seriousness. It's like this: This ÖVP scatters us massive sand into the eyes and blurs everything. Only because of the media pressure – as we should all remember – did Mr Spindelegger say, “in doubt for the bees”. What does that mean? – “In doubt for the bees” means at this ÖVP that you have once again refused to implement our requests that you continue to poison the bees with neonicotinoids, that this Federal Minister continues to allow this to continue for the entire winter drive – that is, we speak of 360 000 hectares – this DDT in a more intensive form, which is 7,000 times more toxic. [[Abg. Grill: In doubt for the farmers!]] That's the work, that's the performance, that's the truthfulness, that's the credibility of spindlegger. “In doubt for the bees” means to persuade the SPÖ as contributors to vote and leave everything in the old. Just the minimum level of this EU regulation will be implemented, everything else is only policy for corporations, Berlakovich-BASF. There you can say that is the axis of evil, that is the axis that really threatens Austria. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: Are you still feeling?]] Mr. Federal Minister, look at the ÖVP laughing. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] This is not serious, it is not serious if a Mr. Party leader, when an ÖVP-Obmann Spindelegger says “in doubt for the bees” and does nothing more than try to calm the population medially and continue to make policy for the corporations, policy against health, policy against a healthy diet, policy for no good agriculture, policy only for corporations and for securing grains. And this SPÖ is right everywhere. That's sad. This call for order, Mr President, I would like to buy it because I hope that some people will see it. The truth comes out. That must be said once! The truth must be on the table! [[Call to the ÖVP: This is your truth!]] This policy is really more than failed, and you will feel it in September.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21565	The next item is the speech by Mr Keck. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21588	Today, we are discussing the Waste Management Act and the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. Many arguments have already been put forward. We have laws here that agree with reality. This is also possible because of some important compromises that could be found here. That's right and that's good. Nevertheless, it is necessary to make an amendment. I submit the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21666	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21778	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21799	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Based on this amendment tabled by Mr Keck, you can see how government policy works – extremely bad. It's incredible: The Minister accuses us as an opposition that we criticize that he wants to push 15 laws in collective legislation relatively quickly before the end of the legislative period quickly, quickly, quickly through this house – and for months do nothing! We wanted additional committee dates. We have also experienced environmental committees without a single government proposal, and that is the scandal! And then you're so badly prepared that there's one amendment after another. This is your manuscript, Minister of State, we already know it! But don't point towards citizens' rights if You stand out here! Don't point towards civil rights! I am not touched, but I find it scandalous that an Environment Minister proclaims great, citizens' rights would be strengthened, but at the same time we have a call from the Aarhus Convention, from the Compliance Committee – urgently, and already known since March 2012 – that we need to amend the Environmental Information Act according to the Aarhus Convention accordingly. What did you do? – Nothing to do with the amendment of the Environmental Information Act. Then you have publicly announced that there is a problem in the field of information – the colleagues have already mentioned it – as regards transparency in the active substances of plant protection products. You're already responsible. If a service or public body assigned to you, i.e. the Agency for Health and Food Safety, or the Federal Food Safety Office, if this body announces to the public or informs the Subcommittee that it is the In silence, and that this silence is worth more than environmental information law, you are responsible, Minister of State! There's a possibility. You could've done it right now. We have sent you a letter asking you to announce these numbers – nothing has happened to this day. They have publicly said that there is a need for a novel of the Environmental Information Act. Where is the amendment tabled by the government groups? Where is it now to make this transparency? [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] Don't point to the citizens! Do your work in the interests of Austria, in the interests of a truly efficient environmental policy! This is the challenge, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, this part, which is also part of a parliamentary debate, namely to evaluate, treat and discuss the good parts of this law, namely the increase in the urban water economy. Yes, of course this is important because waste water treatment in rural areas is important. As far as environmental promotion is concerned, we would also like to discuss in detail. That's not how it is! They're messing with one another with your collective lawmakers. We can't do that. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need an independent Ministry of the Environment and an efficient political debate – and not a collective legislative novels, all of which are humane and then made poor. This is not how it is done, Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21861	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21882	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank the Green Group and Mrs Klubobfrau. That is why I have set myself a special sign today, as a gesture of respect for the objective and constructive outcome of the negotiation at the Tyrolean government negotiations. That should be a sign of respect. [[Abg. Neubauer: That's not true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I would like the Greens to work at the federal level in a similar manner and constructively, as we have now experienced in Tyrol. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are therefore in the middle of the implementation of administrative jurisdiction. [[New call for tender of the Abg. New builder.]] – Mr Neubauer, I will come to you, just wait! I would just like to say that from the point of view of Tyrol, of course, in the conceptual implementation and in its entirety, we have seen the non-compulsory establishment of this administrative jurisdiction very critically, because this will, of course, also do the greatest depowering of countries and policies in the countries. But after this is the consensus we have drawn up in this House after many decades – and I would also like to thank Mr Gerstl – it is now about implementation. It is about the equipment of the UVS, it is about the personal equipment. It is about the appointment of the necessary new judges. To this end, I can say that we are relatively far here in the federal state of Tyrol. Our competent Landesrat Tratter has managed to call the judges largely from the civil service, so that we have the impression that what has been announced to us is that it is cost-neutral, that it is also a very positive development here also in Tyrol. Since my speaking time is coming to an end and I am unfortunately not allowed to deal with God with the EIA, the Environment Senate and the Federal Administrative Court, I still have something to do with Mr Neubauer: I understand that you don't know about ski resorts like that, I also understand that you may not know yourself that way at the border with the Czech Republic, but I can tell you that it was you who always called for an intensification of the EIA when it came to Temelín. [[Abg. New builder: My God!]] [[Abg. New builder: Not the sharpening! You know your back and not your front!]] In this case, I can calm you down. This wonderful ski area on the Hochficht in the triangle of Bavaria, Bohemia and Upper Austria will thus pass through. I am also pleased because we have an excellent representative there, namely the district partyobmann and the Federal Minister Mitterlehner, who will help you to enforce it. If you need advice, I'd like to be at your disposal. By the way, I wish you every success, Mr Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21963	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e21985	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A two-stage administrative jurisdiction has been established with the Novelle 2012 Administrative Jurisdiction. Thus, with effect from 1. In January 2014, a Federal Administrative Court and a Federal Finance Court were set up each year by an administrative court of the countries as well as two administrative courts. Ladies and gentlemen, this decision will be taken from 1. January 2014 almost abolished the Environmental Senate. These competences will be taken over by the Bundesverwaltungsgerichtshof in the future. In the past, this environmental senate has carried out around 30 appeals per year, and this has been done by members working on a secondary level. Interesting details, but not insignificant to those concerned as regards the duration of the proceedings: The duration of the proceedings was about five to six months on average per case in this environment senate. In the future, the procedures will be carried out by principal administrative judges. In the end, this also means that we can expect that the duration of the proceedings will certainly be reduced due to these judges acting in the main profession. Ladies and gentlemen, a few more sentences on environmental organisations, because there were, of course, discussions there: Environmental organisations currently have, among other things, a right to review negative detection procedures at the Environmental Senate. How will that be in the future? – Environmental organisations will also have the possibility of complaint in the future. You have a right to appeal against a negative decision at the Bundesverwaltungsgerichtshof. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22024	Mr Neubauer spoke on the speech by Mr Hörl. I expressly recall the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22048	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hörl said earlier that I had always been committed to the strengthening of the EIA directive and would have been in favour of it. I'm actually correcting: I have never been committed to a strengthening of this EIA directive, but to complying with the EU directive – and this will probably still be allowed in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22079	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Hornek is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22100	Mr President. Highly esteemed Minister of State! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! The 2013 Environmental Adjustment Act is intended to amend five important environmental laws. To Art. 1, Amendment to the Environmental Promotion Act: This provides that the commitment framework for the settlement water industry for 2013 will be set at €45 million. For 2014 even € 100 million is available. I can only agree with my predecessors, the two SPÖ mayors. They have expressed very detailedly the need given in the course of the settlement water management. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the commitment framework for environmental promotion in the country, also called UFI, will be set for the period 2014 to 2020 with €90 million each year, which I am very pleased to see because it will enable many projects that are environmentally relevant to the environment to be implemented in the future. Personally, I am pleased that the success story of the thermal renovation will be extended to 2016 – also an important aspect in this area. There will be no environmental promotion abroad in the future. To Art. 2, Amendment of the Emissions Certificate Act: This is primarily an adaptation to Union law. To Art. 3: With this innovation, the activities carried out by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management will be transferred to a resolution centre. The free movement of personnel is needed for the implementation of the flood directive and is also used. To Art. 4, Amendment to the Environmental Management Act: Due to the amendment of the EMAS Regulation, the Environmental Management Act should be adapted accordingly. To Art. 5, Amendment to the Law on Water Law 1959: The legislation on water law provides for administrative simplification in the field of water law enforcement. Certain tasks in the area of district administration are to be relocated. Water monitoring should also be simplified. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many building blocks and positive changes for the benefit of our environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22160	Further word message: Mr Mag. Kogler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22188	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was not unexpected in the context of this debate to discuss the question of pro/contra hydropower and to refer to the Greens again and again. Look, everyone who makes an ascribement, the greens are a hundred percent against hydropower or on other occasions a hundred percent for it, which only proves that he himself did not understand exactly anything! Of course, it is always a question of weighting, but in the light of the background that in Austria the so-called hydropower, especially as regards unspoiled riverways, has already been extended to a high degree. That must also be clear to you: If something is extended to a high degree, this will not be possible by any means. We can't dig a second Danube. We can't fear every mountain brook in any other place either, because it won't rain in either. That means, that's also limited. But then it's about looking at: Where are the last great natural spaces that are no longer to be destroyed? In Styria, we have such an example where, in fuller terms – Mr President, I say this in full consciousness – deludedness, in a provocative environmental-criminal intention of the Styrian state government, first of all by the head of state Voves, not on your behalf, but within the framework of the indirect federal administration. [[towards Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] I do not wish to attack the Minister at this point, because he knows for himself, he knows the background: The Ministry of the Environment has taken a completely legal view in the matter, but because of these sad consequences, which can only be achieved by a state government that is either incapable or unwilling, it has finally happened that anything has achieved legal power, which is not only through and through ecologically destructive, but also through and through illegal – like Hainburg, annoyed, through and through illegal! There, natural races are destroyed, which are irrevocable. Look You can do this on the Internet You know enough about it! This is the Black Sulm in the south of Styria. Make yourself aware that you will hear more about it anyway! What Landeshuptmann Vaves said was to approve this in 2007, although water quality I, although “Natura 2000” territory of the Union, has now started a infringement procedure – once again, not in any way, but in a procedure that was initially put to rest. But when the Constitutional Court lifted the whole thing, because it was just there that Voves and Consorten made such a sad move, the Union immediately reintroduced it – rightly! Now the perverse situation arises that this should never have been approved, but under the pretext of national necessity – because of a few households, a few thousand households, which is supposed to come annually, so a lot of natural destruction for very little electricity – the exception section has been drawn. In the meantime, however, economic history looks like we have to make millions of payment from the EU, i.e. why this has just been approved – in any case unlawful – is actually wrong, because economic damage threatens to the extreme. That has to be the responsibility of the Styrian government! You, Mr Federal Minister, should also intervene, you also have competence! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Of course!]] But that must be said, and that must be done. So now we have the situation: first of all illegal, second of all nationally stupid, thirdly a lot of compensation for damages, if one wants to do so, to the Union, and finally a situation to be debated, Mr Federal Minister, where you yourself also say that the state government or the head of state should finally decide. But I'll tell you if he doesn't, you have to do something too! At least you have to get him to the Raeson, so I'm appealing to the place! Now the first excavators are driving around. But we will support the resistance fighters there. I say this quite openly to you, because it's just like it's more often: If injustice becomes right, resistance becomes a duty! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Take notice!]] Let yourself write this behind the ears: This is not the case, the last natural areas there are destroying in this blatant way, and that among the alleged reformers in Styria! They'll still wonder: That'll be her waterloo! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Black Sulm!]] So this Mr. Voves is down here!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22256	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Draft federal law, which amends the Environmental Impact Assessment Act and repeals the Federal Law on the Environmental Senate, together with the title and receipt in 2252 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree with this draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Draft Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act – Environment, Waste, Water, 2315 of the Supplements. The following additional or amendments have been tabled: Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Mr Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Lettenbichler, Keck, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendments or amendments referred to above, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Mr Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment or amendment which introduces the introduction of a new Z1 in Art. 3 as well as the resulting amendments to the following paragraphs. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. 3 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask those members of the House who have given their approval here for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Lettenbichler, Keck, colleagues and others have tabled an additional amendment or amendment which makes it possible to insert a new Z 1 in Art. 6 as well as the resulting amendments to the following paragraphs. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here for their approval. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18. Draft Environmental Adjustment Act 2013 in 2292 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. Mr Schultes, Mr Weninger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an additional amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. Deputies Ing. Schultes, Weninger, colleagues and others have a supplementary or amendment amendment relating to Art. 5 to be introduced. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here for their approval. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Draft federal law amending the Waste Management Act and the Old Load Rehabilitation Act, together with the title and receipt in 2293 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree with this draft law at third reading too, to give a sign. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:45:01]] 20. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (2161 and 2161 d.a.): Federal Act amending the Radiological Protection Act (2318 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22419	We reach the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dr Karlsböck spoke. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22446	Mr President. Minister! We negotiate and talk about a change to the radiation protection law. The Radiation Protection Act is, if we want to define it, the central body of law in Austria to protect people and the environment from damage caused by ionizing radiation and, since the word “ionizing rays” is present in it, of course, a delicate matter. The concrete law deals with administrative simplification – simply said – by defining and changing the competences of the audit bodies in relation to radiation installations. At the moment, the district authorities are carrying out these tests, which are now around a hundred. This is reduced to nine offices in state governments. We find this to be a very good step, because it can actually make savings both in efficiency and in money. The second, more fundamental problem or the corresponding change is the monitoring of radiation installations as such. That's a pretty professional story, but you need to know that ionizing rays, X-rays are of course not the same X-rays. In X-rays in medical practices, in medical ordinations, rays are produced by tubes. In other words, by means of voltage and electricity, radiations are produced which have a different intensity. On the other hand: When you hear “ionizing rays”, “Rontgens”, you mean in the back of the head, even if you don’t care so much about it, such as Fukushima or Chernobyl. These are sources of radiation, which in principle have to be treated completely differently. This also happens in medical operations, of course. We are not speaking exclusively here now, but mainly of radiation installations in ordinations. It is true that there is currently every two years a review on its own. This review every two years has the legislator and the examining bodies, all professionals have considered it far too short-term, actually also as absurd. They have now been extended to four years: four years for dentists and veterinarians; unfortunately three years for all the others, i.e. for radiologists. This is something we also see as a criticism point, because it is not at all clear why a professional group that uses more or less the same devices as the others is now treated differently. This, of course, has the germ of unconstitutional illegality within itself. It has not really been able to explain to us an expert why, please, these differences exist. But the most important thing in such a change is the patient. The patient really has to be at the centre here, and if we make such a change in examination intervals, of course it must also be clear whether the patient can suffer a disadvantage. Because everything economic for the operator, everything economic for the authority, administrative simplification is good and beautiful, but should not go at the expense of the safety of people! We can rule out this after much discussion. I also know what I'm talking about, I'm affected by it myself. I myself run such a device or equipment, so I can say that there is a tight system in Austria next to this far-reaching control. There is a central radiation protection register located in the ministry. There is a dose register for the Dosimeter staff. There are the constancy checks to be carried out by the handler, by the radiation protection officer, by the operator of facilities. Then there is an indirect, much more important control: This is the control of the caretaker, the doctor himself. Why is this such an important and serious control? – Because the health insurance system in Austria provides to pay X-rays only if they are properly manufactured. That's also being checked. The doctor knows when he makes a recording and then immediately examines whether the device is okay or not, because of course it is also a purely ethical question, if you realize that something is not right here to end it. In principle, it must be said that we are, of course, committed to any reduction of administrative burdens. For this we are known as a free party. This law leads to an blatant improvement in the administrative field. And if I may say so, we would wish that in other areas, including medicine, absurd administrative burdens should be reduced. I could say a lot now, but the speaking time has just expired, I would just like to say one more thing about the possible objection that patients could be threatened because the interval is changed from two years to four years, especially in the dental field. I would just like to say that the actual emergency, which could occur in a dental practice in relation to X-rays, is the only one that is the retention of the tube's trigger relay. That means in German, the switch clamps. There is a simple method: You pull the plug, like the TV, out of the socket. But for 20 years there have been only more automated protection switches that turn off automatically after two seconds. There has been no emergency since then. That is why we believe, once again, that this is a reasonable arrangement to achieve administrative relief for all concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22511	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22532	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Radiation protection is an essential concern for the Protection of the population. The Radiation Protection Act, which is in place, defines basic regulations for protection against ionising radiation. The current novelle – which is the essential core of this novel – brings a shift of responsibility from the district chief teams to the state governments. This is an essential measure in the area of deregulation of materials between the federal government and countries. I can also take the opportunity to mention here that in the current legislative period a large number of such deregulation measures have been taken between the federal government and countries, administrative simplifications. And this is also said by all those who constantly complain that no improvements, no reforms are taking place in the administrative area. A large number of deregulations have been carried out here, as a lot has been and will be implemented. The Novelle of the Radiation Protection Act brings a pooling of competences with a shift from the approximately 100 district headquarters to the state governments and associated with efficiency increases, cost savings and less bureaucracy. It is also – and my previous speaker has already mentioned it – extended the test interval of the official review from two to four years to three or four years, and the novelle ensures, in addition to pooling the competences and cost savings, above all also ensuring Austria-wide uniform practices and standards: ensuring the high standards while at the same time increasing efficiency and saving costs.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22571	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Brunner. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22593	Mr President. It has already been mentioned by my previous speakers that it is about extending intervals in the control of radiation plants. I don't know how you want to ensure high standards while at the same time reducing controls. I don't want to repeat the dates now. There have been concerns in the opinions of a number of parties. I believe that in dealing with radioactive substances the highest care is needed, so intensive controls are needed to minimise the risks, for patients, but especially for those who are particularly exposed to them for professional reasons. It is incomprehensible to me that the test intervals are extended here. In Switzerland a few years ago, 17 000 X-ray systems have been tested: 350 plant owners have been deprived of the radiation protection authorisation for lack of maintenance. And I believe that it is only through appropriate controls that the people who come into contact with it are sufficiently protected. Now, unfortunately, the opposite happens. I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22623	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22644	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Brunner, it would have been me. Yes, surprised if you had agreed to this law. In the Committee, the argument was a bit different. In principle, this is an administrative reform. The Greens are often called for administrative reform. Now we make one, and the Green Party is against it – but that's what we're used to. I believe that the first is an increase in efficiency and, secondly, that it is also important that of 100 district authorities, where I do not have a corresponding special knowledge, where I do not have so many cases of radiation pollution, at nine points. In addition to the change in competence, we also have a change in the review intervals. Here I would like to point out that the examination intervals are only extended where we expect a low risk potential. In this sense, I will then take a closer look at this law in my print error correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22687	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22708	Mr President. I think we should discuss this radiation protection law a little more differentiated. It's true: There is an administrative simplification by a concentration of administrative procedures among the national leaders. In the past there were around 100 bras, now the head of state is responsible – positive, you can only support. But what one cannot support is the extension of the test intervals, because it is illogical: With the dentist – that is the one with lower training for radiation protection – one increases the test interval for these X-rays from two to four years, while the radiologists who have higher-quality training with regard to radiation protection only increase the test intervals from two to three years. This is in itself an objective contradiction, which every non-irradiation protection technician understands. It doesn't make sense. Therefore, I believe that this law is also influenced by lobbyists, that they have intervened to extend the test intervals for as long as possible in order to save themselves costs. And the whole thing – and this is the core – happens on the back of the patients to the price of possible danger to human health. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's what we don't want! [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] And then I'm at the SPÖ. I've always waited to see if there's any differentiation. Administrative simplification: yes; Protection of health, protection of patients: no. So whoever agrees to this law is at risk of human health. It is also funny to hear the opinion of the Ministry of Health. The health resort is headed, I believe, by Minister Stöger, at the SPÖ. He writes about his place of business: He sees the whole thing very positively – emphasis on “very positive” – and has no objections. So it is less tested so that patients are exposed to a higher risk, and that has also shown the Chamber of Workers. There were about 17,000 controls in Switzerland. In the course of these 17 000 checks, 350 installations have been withdrawn because they have not been properly maintained because they are ultimately were dangerous to health. That's every 50. Appendix! That means, every 50. In the future, you will also be exposed to risks. Therefore: If you are a party that not only has health in the program, are a party that also lives health and wants to do something for the protection of people, then you must reject the law in the present form!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22762	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22784	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Deputies, I am now the lawyer of Mr Stöger: They can assume that the Austrian Federal Government values human health. [[Abg. May. Widmann: I'm not sure!]] Neither Mr Stäger nor I act easily in these reviews, as you can be sure. This is about ionizing radiation with a very low risk potential. And that which is reasonable is also acceptable by the experts, is made: The review period is extended from two to three or four years, of course without endangering human body and life. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] It is also about achieving simplifications in the course of deregulation. In the first instance, the authority responsible for radiation protection moves from the district authorities to the head of state. This brings cost savings and efficiency improvements, as we have previously noted in other legislative instruments, but the high standards of radiation protection in Austria remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22821	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22843	Madam President. Minister! High house! The content of the government template – which has already been mentioned by my previous speakers – is that the first instance competence for radiation protection procedures and the intervals for the periodic review of radiation plants are changed. The responsibility for authorised activities, handling and working with sources of radiation is to be relocated from the district authorities to the national leaders. Review intervals are to be extended from two to three or four years. Dentist and veterinary X-ray devices are checked every four years. Radiation sources with a higher risk potential are to be subject to an annual review. The purpose of this change in law is to increase efficiency and save costs, while maintaining the quality of the review. Where so far 100 district authorities have been responsible for radiation protection procedures, these are now nine radiation protection authorities in the countries. Furthermore, the countries will now also have more economic processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22878	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22899	Madam President. High house! The government template, we have already heard, contains rules on the modification of the body move on the basis of the Administrative Jurisdiction Novelle 2012. As I have said many times today, our enthusiasm in this regard is limited. In principle, we from the Stronach team always face administrative reforms openly, especially if they are made to increase efficiency and save costs. However, the extension of the review intervals should be closely monitored and documented, as the safety and health of the population should always be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22927	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22948	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Amendment of the Radiation Protection Act: The responsibility of the head of state and the head of state has been transferred to the bras. This change also raised the problem that instead of nine radiation protection authorities established in the respective office of the state government, approximately 100 district authorities were now responsible. I see the problem in that, in the case of radiological events, responsibility lies with the head of state and not with the district authorities. The national conference of the national leaders has decided that the competence should be transferred back from the bras to the national leaders. – So far, so good, ladies and gentlemen. I don't understand. If schools are to be affected in a radiological emergency situation – which we do not hope – the Minister of Education is responsible, who or who has to reach agreement with the Minister for the Environment. That's a non-satisfying state. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Radiation Protection Act – and, Mr Widmann, I do not give you the right – is also a law on the protection of life and people, patients and staff. This is not to be disregarded in this whole matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e22981	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. In order to make a print error correction, I grant Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher the final word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23003	Thank you, Madam President. – I make the following correction to the current report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection (2318 of the Supplements): The Committee's proposal is as follows: "As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection therefore proposes that the National Council should give constitutional approval to the draft law (2161 of the Supplements) presented by the Federal Government."
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23038	We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 2161 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:04:42]] 21. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (2201 e.g._Other Organiser Convention on the European Forest Institute; Approval of the Spanish language version (2339 d.a.) 22. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (2291, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, which amends the Agricultural Procedure Act 1950, the Constitutional Constitutional Law 1951, the Principle Law 1951 on the treatment of forest and pasture use rights and special field services, the Goods and Paths Basic Law 1967, the Forest Law 1975, the Forestry Propagation Law 2002, the BFW Act, the Fertilizers Act 1994, the Feeding Law 1999, the Health and Nutritional Safety Act, the Plant Protection Act 2011, the Plant Protection Act 2011, the Plant Health Act 1997, the Rebenverkehrsgesetz 1996, the Variety Protection Act 2001, the Wine Law 2009, the Market Regulations Act 2007 and the Marketing Standards Act and the Agricultural Authority Act 1950 (Agricultural Law Adjustment Act BMLFUW – Agriculture and Forestry) (2340 d.e.b.) (2340 d.b.) 23. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (2297, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Fertilizer Act 1994, the Feed Act 1999, the Health and Food Safety Act, the Plant Protection Act 2011, the Agricultural Control Act, the Federal Law on the Federal Offices for Agriculture and the Federal Institutes, the Stock Exchange Law, the Marketing Standards Act, the Forestry Act 1975 and the Wine Act 2009 and adopts a Federal Law on the Agricultural Product Exchange (Agricultural Change Act 2013) (2341 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23102	We now come to points 21 to 23 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23132	Madam President. Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Agricultural Law Change Act – a set of Laws: I doubt that there are some reliefs for farmers here, and there are probably some for the EU as regards the Market Regulation Act. The purpose is to adopt rules that will be implemented in accordance with EU rules. That's what's in the cover: ‘Proportion to the legislation of the European Union: The arrangements provided for do not fall within the scope of the law of the European Union. As regards individual special procedural provisions in the field of the 2007 MOG, the necessary accompanying arrangements for regulations of the European Union shall be provided for.’ Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I don't think that's quite honest. To date, farmers do not have any relief in relation to the jungle of applications, let alone in relation to the alpine areas – for the EU very much as far as the Market Regulation Act 2007 is concerned. Here, EU regulations are simply smuggled into this package of laws and in addition, the AMA is equipped with more powers. We reject such practices from the FPÖ! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23165	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23186	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have here three legislative proposals from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. On the one hand, it is about the Agro-Law Change Act, which modernises and recaptures eleven legislative instruments, on the other hand, the Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act and the Convention on the European Forestry Institute. We are implementing numerous reforms in the Agro-Law Change Act. It is about including and taking into account current developments, especially as regards the law on the agricultural product market. This is a modern legal basis for the organization and activity of the agricultural product market in Vienna. Rules currently in force are summarised in a federal law. Another amendment concerns the Fertilizers Act 1994. Here, products according to the Waste Management Act and composters have so far been excluded from the Fertilizers Act. These are now being taken up and re-regulated. The 1975 Forest Act Novelle deals with the functioning of bring-on cooperatives. This is about redesigning the area of the statutes and reorientating supervisory powers and decision-making practice. Very welcome is also a deregulation. For example, the simplified registration procedure is intended to be applied even in the case of temporary clearances up to 1 000 m2. A reforestation must take place in five years. There are clear rules in the phytosanitary legislation on import controls. To date, the customs authorities have been responsible; in the future, control will be ensured by the Federal Food Safety Office alone. The Health and Food Safety Act concerns the ratification of the International Convention on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture. So, in total, a huge package as far as the Agricultural Law Change Act is concerned. It brings many innovations, clarity regarding competence and responsibility. I believe that we must ensure that we constantly adapt the rules on efficiency and transparency in agricultural law. In the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry there are adaptations of rules from the jurisdiction of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to those of 1. January 2014 in force Administrative Jurisdiction Novelle 2012. These amendments contain essentially adaptations to the previous instance. In the last legislative amendment concerning the European Forestry Institute, it is actually a linguistic adjustment. So far, the languages in which it was written were English, French and German. In the future, it will also be written in Spanish. The European Forest Institute has a clear mission – 120 members from the economy and research are there. Austria is also represented by the BOKU and by the Federal Ministry of Economics. The aim is to control the sustainability and the wood market in Europe, not to neglect research, but to revitalize and equip them over and over again, in other words to boost the overall use of forests in Europe. In this sense, we welcome these three legislative novels. I invite everyone to take them along and to decide on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23248	Mr Pirklhuber has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23269	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Another item on the agenda with extensive collective legislation. Mr Gahr has tried here to give a little constructive insight into the Agricultural Law Change Act. However, Mr Gahr, especially when one goes into the depths and would clarify detailed questions, there are open questions, namely, in concrete terms, in the Forestry Act the administrative simplifications provided here. These enable falls in biotopes, i.e. individual areas. For example, only by removing the phrase “needs in wind protection plants for the official display” is it possible for these falls to be carried out simply, without the involvement of the authorities that could examine this. This is a fundamental problem, including the follow-up of such measures. For these reasons, we cannot give our consent to this Agricultural Law Change Act. Mr Federal Minister, I must tell you that, in the context of this Act on Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment, where there is enforcement and enforcement, it would have been possible to take essential steps of a solution to the problem which is now at issue, namely, in all the laws that are being amended here, from the Forestry Act on the Feeding Act, the Health and Food Safety Act, the Plant Health Act up to the Variety Protection Act, the Wine Law and the Market Regulation, that there would have been the possibility of precisely that the I would like to point out that there is a great deal to be done in the context of the Community's economic and social cohesion policy. Which are these? – Let’s have a look at what the Minister has supported! He has personally signed, as far as I know, a petition of ARCHE NOAH for the protection of varieties, for the protection of the seed and, above all, for the protection of old varieties. That's something positive. But if we come to the Committee with a request from the Greens that goes exactly in this direction, namely protection of varieties, seed, exchange between farmers, conservation of old varieties, no proposals from the Party of Ministers, no proposals on the part of the ÖVP and no consent to the request of the Greens. I know we've got time for the next time. The application has been postponed. But that would have been a good opportunity. Tag two – no secret –: Our request to ban neo-notinoids would have been possible here today if we had agreed in committee if we had been brave enough to make an Austrian shoulder closure. I know we decided at the special meeting that we will continue to discuss with the Minister. The proposals will be put forward tomorrow. For these reasons, we also accept this next step. However, with tooth gnawing, I say quite stone and clear. We were always the firm conviction to make nails with heads right away. I'm very curious. This is the last real sample of nails, whether we are capable and willing to take action here as a parliamentarian if the Minister does not. I say that in the direction of SPÖ, where I know that the confessions are there and the will was basically expressed. But it's really about standing this nail sample even once. And the last possibility will be in June. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, I would also like to say to you: Since the Market Regulation Act is also on the agenda today and we have a problem in agriculture, which has enormous effects on the tourism country Austria, namely the almen problems and the impact of the funding chaos and chaos with the control of the alpine areas, we would have had the opportunity today to ensure retroactively the re-establishment of the pastures and to prevent the repayments of farmers who would be on the market – that would have been my proposal. And I have a very specific information from the European Commission. I quote from a letter from Commissioner Cioloş's cabinet, that is from the EU Commission. And in this letter, it's a stone's throw and it's clear: ‘Both the European Commission in its accounting procedure and the European Court of Auditors have identified weaknesses in the Austrian InVeKoS.’ InVeKoS is the control system. And this is also about the repayment claims that arise. Mr Federal Minister, the Commission has clearly said that the alpine guide does not work because it has not been implemented. I say he doesn't work because he can't work. And it also made the ex-Commissioner Fischler sound that this would have to be checked. This would have been the opportunity to clarify some of the burning issues at this item on the agenda. It would have been possible to present this also from the government side and to decide together today. However, you have this option. not used. This is a pity for farmers. That's a shame for the bees, too. This is a pity for the seeds and for the old varieties. However, we will continue to work on bringing these issues to a solution, because it cannot be possible to drive alpine farmers to the wall and thus endanger the tourist location of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23341	Mrs Binder-Maier is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23363	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to focus on two points of view in these agenda items. First of all, I would like to say that we are happy to give our approval to the Convention on the European Forest Institute. 120 member organisations are represented in this institute. The main objective is to carry out research at European level in the fields of forestry policy, including environmental aspects, ecology and resource health, and to provide guidance for research. The second area concerns the Agricultural Law Change Act. Eleven key priorities in this area are being innovationd or put in place. One of them is the Wine Law 2009 with the chapter “Obstwein”. Individual products of the fruit wine pyramid are redefined in this Regulation. These are product specifications: Fruit wine without any further geographical indications, fruit wine with the indication of a federal country, quality fruit wine and regional specific quality fruit wine with profile of origin. Put to the point, ladies and gentlemen – and as a Mostviertler I know that –: It's about the must! I'm from the pear tree region. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Pearbam, as we are told in the Most Quarter. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you all around 1. May come to our region. It's for kneeling. Beautiful! We are proud of our region and our flowering pear trees. [[New condolences with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We are proud of our must-farers. And one of them, the Mostbaron Bernhard Datzberger from Amstetten, expressly welcomes this innovation, is that this former poor-people drink, namely the must, has matured into a top-quality product and is now receiving a certification when it comes to asking for the best quality, the best plants, the best production in front of the curtain and to give the guarantee that truly the quality that has been awarded is also inside. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen: We are really proud of our next time, Ridi, we take a bottle of must! – We are proud of our regionality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] We are proud of this speciality, the must. And we would like to give our approval to this innovation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23421	Mr Huber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23442	Thank you, Madam President. Minister! High house! It could have been a day for us today to bring forward agriculture, where we could have secured agricultural jobs. that we could have actively done something against the farmer's death – but no! In the last Committee on Agriculture of the 14th century. There were five government documents on May. These will be decided today. These proposals deal partly with the implementation of EU dictatorships. But there was also – you have to imagine that! – eleven very reasonable applications from the opposition that agriculture had brought forward, which had ended the downturn in agriculture. Well, what do you think happened? . All eleven applications were postponed, shaken, laid on ice by the ÖVP. This agricultural policy, which is currently taking place, this EIA policy brings farmers into more dependence. The so-called contract agriculture is accompanied by injustices. There's no more fair competition. And what does this minister do? What's the ÖVP doing? . All applications which would take the farmer's stand and the consumer into the shoulder closure and bring all agriculture forward will be postponed. We are facing this situation today! Minister! I don't know why you never stand before the farmers. In 1995 your party said: We must go to the EU to have fair competition so that farmers have fair conditions! And what conditions do we have today? Let's compare with South Tyrol! Let's compare Italy with Austria! How's the situation there? – There, the producer prices obtained by farmers are at least 50 percent higher. The consumer pays for the product in the supermarket by at least 6. 7 percent less than with us. With us, the production conditions are also tough. While the Italian farmer is paying 74 cents for the litre diesel today, since he is completely exempt from the mineral oil tax, the Austrian farmer gets nothing back. In 2012, Minister Berlakovich, the ÖVP has remunerated farmers – this small remunerated payment that was made at the time! – deleted without replacement. Let's compare Germany with Austria! Minister, let's compare ourselves with Bavaria! Today, the Bavarian farmer receives around 5 percent more for its products than the Austrian one and the consumer pays by 10 percent less there than with us. This is Austrian politics – policy of dependencies, exploited in every register to the full! In addition, the Bavarian farmer is paid back 26 cents per litre, while the Austrian farmer gets nothing. If you compare all of this, you have to conclude how today the university professors of the University of Soil Culture, who have written a manifesto for a reorientation of agriculture. I just got this paper. I am really surprised that the most recognized university professors come to the conclusion that this agricultural policy has really failed, that it needs to be reorientated, that it needs a turn. I do not want to go into this now, but I can tell you, Minister: Not only when we speak of seeds, when we speak of maize, when we speak of the sprays, the university professors of the University of Soil Culture represent today, on 22. May 2013, really the BZÖ's agricultural programme for the last five years, namely 1 : 1. I hope now that only a few peaks of the iceberg have emerged, that you are ready to divert. I hope that you will finally end this downtime policy and make a real policy for the farmers. Mr Federal Minister, the situation in which the mountain farmers are now in the hands of what the AMA is doing with them is unbearable. You can give farmers because of your Public authorities make administrative mistakes or are administrative errors in the system, not to be victims. These farmers have received support in the good faith, have invested these funds, put them into the construction of stables, and you cannot now go here and let farmers, as is done with a brutality, just look at the ground floor. This will destroy farmers' lives. Instead, you should take protection against farmers. Mr. Federal Minister, farmers are afraid of Minister Berlakovich. Farmers are afraid of the EIA. And farmers are afraid of the AMA. If we do not finally start to make a policy for the population and for the farmers and to take action against the chemical companies and against certain dependencies, such as those at AGRANA, if we do not finally make a policy with house mind, then the agricultural country Austria is going down! You, Mr. Federal Minister, have already ruined so many existences. End this your policy at last! Let us see that we get a fair competition, that we get the farmers under the arms, that we become a gourmet shop and that we finally produce what we need, that we make a policy that is really leading! Mr Minister, you know that we only produce more than 80 percent of the cereals we need in Austria. But what are you doing, Minister of State? – They give millions of subsidies so that AGRANA can build a bioethanol plant so that Raiffeisen can build a bioethanol plant. This will make farmers dependent on chemical groups and will therefore also suffer massively from the quality of our products. That's the wrong way! Mr Minister, think about it right away, or the time will run out!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23531	Mr Grillitsch is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23552	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Huber, do you know what the farmers are afraid of? – Before ignorance, before populists, and before instability. [[Abg. Huber: Before you, yes! That's the truth!]] And that's exactly what you've been talking about right now! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Huber.]] The farmers are not afraid of the agricultural policy that the ÖVP and the Farmers' Federation have made in this country over the last 20, 30 years. Even when we join the EU, we have not made it easy, and I say this very openly, especially the peasant people, and neither we, the representative of interest, nor we as the political responsible, since we have said: In the sense of the whole, we go along this path with a “Yes, but”! [[Abg. Huber: Do we have fair conditions?]] And we have followed this path successfully.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23620	Mr Huber, if you want to make calls, please do so only from your place. Mr Grillitsch, you are speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23639	Mr Huber, we have been able to develop programmes in Europe from Austria: an environmental programme, a bioprogramme. No man believed this when we presented it to farmers. For more than 15 years, the farmers in Austria have been assured that they will receive their compensation on time each year. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Huber.]] Mr Huber, you have completely forgotten this. [[Abg. Petzner: You don't believe what you're talking about!]] Excuse me, did you all forget that? That's a fact! This is a security that farmers did not have on the market, ladies and gentlemen. In the market we have had price volatility, but in the programmes we have security, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Huber: That's why so many farmers have locked up?]] This is Austria's agricultural policy in Europe: exemplary, groundbreaking, ecological, eco-social. [[Abg. Grosz: You can explain this to the farmers outside!]] And we have also gone on a path which Commissioner Cioloş very much appreciates, namely the way to the income combination in the regions outside, where we allow farmers to enter, in addition to agricultural production, farm holidays, machine rings and other services, so that they do not take away other jobs elsewhere in industry or in the economy. This is a successful agricultural policy that Niki Berlakovich has continued in Austria. And we'll continue this path in the future, even if you're still talking him so badly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Huber: How many businesses have locked up since Minister Berlakovich?]] Today, agriculture and farmers have a perspective that they have never had. I'm convinced of that. [[Abg. Huber: Dependence!]] No, because you know today that you will have to produce 50 percent more food in 20 years. Ladies and gentlemen, let us think here in this House! We have to answer the question and society has to answer the question: What form of agriculture can this objective achieve? – An industrial form where, as you are just now, even higher standards are constantly demanded and everything is destroyed and pushed into the industry, or a rural agriculture as we have it?
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23763	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23784	Madam President. Minister! High house! The convoluted evolution... – Is Huber’s dialogue with Mr Grillitsch already over? [[Calls and appeals between Mr Huber, Mr Grosz and Mr Grillitsch.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23805	Mr Huber and Mr Grosz. There is an agreement, contained in the Presidency, that intermediate calls should be made only from their own place. If you don't comply with these rules, I'll give you an order call. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. Mr Grosz: Madam President, I was just talking to the grill!]] [[Abg. Riepl: As long as they are still there, they want to try out all the armchairs!]] Mr Tadler, you are speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23851	Again: We have heard enough about this mix of innovations in the Committee. Mr Pirklhuber has this also mentioned again. The amount of innovation has already been highly criticised. With regard to the changes in the legisla­tions relating to the entire administrative structure, it is increasingly clear that there will be different problems. As has already been mentioned several times today, the consequences of the whole transformation are not at all affordable. As far as the costs of this Act of Adjustment are concerned, various opinions on the draft have clearly argued that they cannot be specified precisely. The Agro-Law Change Act, which regulates the extension of the AGES' area of activity in relation to bee dying, is probably due to the very good opposition work in this House. However, I do not see any appreciation for bees, as the Chamber of Agriculture recognises in its opinion. We from the Stronach team want a slim and efficient administration. We only want as much administration as is necessary, Minister. Whether this can be achieved with this innovation will show up.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23894	It now has Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23915	Madam President. High house! The Agro-Law Change Act or the amendments to various laws such as those of the Wine Law and other laws addressed by the previous speakers are largely based on adaptation to the changes in administrative jurisdiction. This is important – thank you for supporting this. At the same time, however, we also use the possibility of modernising the agricultural sector. All those who paint horror scenarios on the wall may see the statistics and the figures on how the Austrian agriculture and forestry presents itself. It is not the case that Europe now wants to take a path in the reform of the common agricultural policy, which Austria has taken, namely that of an organic and sustainable agriculture and forestry, including a small-structured agriculture. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Do not discuss the agricultural reform! Talk about it, Minister.]] Look at these numbers too! While in many parts of Europe – in Eastern Germany, in Holland, in Denmark – there is a real agricultural industry – we reject it – we still have farmers in our hands. Of course, conditions change, but in comparison to size, we still have these rural farms, and we want to give them a chance in the future. Mrs Binder-Maier, you have referred to it: What happened in connection with the must is a good example. In the past, the must was, as it were, a by-product, but it has succeeded in raising this to a higher level of quality through the enjoyment regions and also through the agricultural means, and also in reducing the added value of the region. The people in the region have used this. That's the way we're going: We want foods that are anchored in a region, have a special quality, promise a pleasure and are also asked for – in the gastronomy, in the hostess, in the hotel industry and among tourists. We want to continue this course, and we also want to continue the ecologically oriented agricultural policy. The income opportunities are there too! What's being told here isn't true! The price situation is God's thanks in the milk, cereals and meat sectors a positive one, and we want to take advantage of market opportunities. [[Abg. Huber: Why do so many quit?]] Here you can tell us what you want. However, the farmers also have ecological responsibility, therefore also a few words on other topics: The Seed Regulation is such an example. Austria has always applied the most liberal seed regulation in the European Union. We have always used the maximum margin to give small seeds, gardeners, small farmers, people who sell a few plants on markets, the chance to do the same. However, if seeds are sold in a large style, the farmers, the buyers already need the security that this also corresponds to the law. We are at the beginning of the discussion on this issue. Austria has also said clearly in this area that we want to continue to support small producers. This is asked by people, even when it comes to securing old, rural varieties also genetically. We are setting up gene banks, but we also want to give prospects on the market. On the topic of pastures also an open word: The starting point for the issue was the European level. The European Commission has reviewed pastures and has identified land variations. The European Court of Auditors has therefore ruled and said that more controls must be carried out because there are deviations. The aim is to give farmers legal certainty that they have legal certainty when determining the area. That's exactly the process we're going to carry out now. Together with the Agricultural Councils and the Presidents of the Chamber, we have drawn up an Alpine road map that determines how we are rehabilitating this issue. It is understandable that there are many people affected by unrest. Nobody says – neither I nor anyone else – that farmers have deliberately done something wrong, but we want to help them. For example, we have achieved that farmers will impose sanctions when they correct the areas. This possibility still exists. It has been agreed that the AMA is making a digitalisation. If that fits, the farmer can accept it. On the other hand, if the farmer says that it does not fit, he must determine the feeding area on the spot with the Chamber of Agriculture, which has the task by the Ministry. This is necessary to give the farmers the assurance that they will get the money paid. But if a farmer has given too much space, he must repay the funds. This applies to an alpine farmer, which is true for a farmer in the flat land – this is true everywhere. We have this responsibility towards the company, because tax money is used. If the area is correctly specified, the farmer is rightly referring the money. But if there are deviations, that must be corrected. No one says that any illegal things have happened. These corrections take place throughout Austria, for example in the environmental programme and in other programmes, as well as in direct payments. You know that very well. You don't have to leave your face like that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] This is a common practice and so it is throughout Europe. Even if you want to polemize here: This is about tax money, which is properly managed, and the farmers who do this should also receive this money. That is what we are fighting for in the future. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] You shouldn't be polemizing here. We're fighting for the farmers while you're trying to change party-political change.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e23986	Mr Huber spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24010	Mr Berlakovich has just said that the prices of producers in Austria are very high and that it is stupid and does not agree that prices are different abroad. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: I didn't say that! Listen!]] In fact, I would like to correct that payment prices in South Tyrol alone are 56 percent higher in milk and that payment prices are higher in Bavaria too. [[Abg. Grill: 56 percent?]] This concerns all products. In apples we have only heard...
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24063	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24079	The farmer receives 49 cents. – That’s the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24106	The next item is Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24127	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Huber, if you are speaking here, you should stick to the truth. [[Abg. Huber: I'm just telling the truth!]] They meant that the applications in the committee had been pushed, so they had been postponed. That's not true. Mr Jannach has requested a postponement to allow further discussion, because the time has no longer come. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] To the present Agricultural Law Change Act: It covers, as we have already heard, several areas. I refer to the Forest Act 1975 and to the administrative practice of the bring ing cooperatives. As mayor of the often I have to deal with bringover cooperatives, and it has been shown that improvements are necessary for their functioning. Accordingly, appropriate arrangements are provided for. These necessary rules concern the content of the statutes, the institutions, the version of decisions, the breakdowns of cooperatives, the division of costs and supervisory powers of the Authority. For temporary routings up to 1000 m2, the simple routing registration procedure will be enabled. As a result, the current necessary decision-making process is not sufficient. This administrative simplification is to be welcomed. The Forestry Authority shall also avoid the need for certification in the case of land partitions. Therefore, if no forest is affected, the Forestry Authority no longer needs to act. It is also intended to avoid the administrative obligation to report falls in wind protection systems. However, the principle ban for these areas remains valid. There is no change in the provisions relating to the decommissioning or decommissioning of wind protection systems. The maintenance of wind protection systems and the guarantee of their protection functions and environmental effects are therefore fully granted.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24170	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24191	Madam President. Minister! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! We simply cannot vote in the Administrative Law on the Adjustment of Agricultural and Forestry Law, because in principle, this Act contains a better creation of the agricultural market Austria in the case of examinations and in case of appeal decisions. In principle, unlike all other institutions and jurisdictions, the AMA has the right to wait not for two but four months with the decision. I believe that this is why the AMA simply doesn't deal with the work anymore, because it has built up such an administrative consciousness. And now, suddenly, as the only institution, it wants an extension of deadlines! If you follow the theme of the feeding surface on the pastures, you can only say that you should force the AMA to find reasonable rules that are practical for the farmers. In this way, it can also manage to make decisions in a timely manner. If one now takes the new feed area determination scheme and hears that, as you say, Mr Minister, it should be seen as a service that the farmers are told from the screen what feeding areas they have on the pastures, then there will be styling flowers, in view of which one can really only shake the head. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: The farmer does not have to accept it! You know that very well!]] – I told you the last thing, Minister: Then he has the exam in the house immediately. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true! That's not true! Don't talk like that!]] He hasn't turned around yet and hasn't said he doesn't accept it, he already has the exam in the house! In the Gail Valley, they have now been notified of this feeding area and have learned that they have suddenly only more than 0.7 hectares per GVE. They will try a field this year by fenceping 1.4 hectares and driving up two cattle. I'm curious how the public will react that the two cows will starve up there. This simply shows that the AMA has chosen a completely foreign model. Mr Minister, we ask you: See that the AMA will find practical solutions for farmers! Then they will also be able to make their decisions in good time, and we do not have to decide on a time-limit extension for the AMA.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24239	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24261	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The Administrative Jurisdiction-Adaptation Act meets us in the various materials, as well as in agriculture. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am seeking approval of this amendment, which has come about because there have also been suggestions from the federal states during the assessment phase, and I hope that this will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24362	The amendment just tabled has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24475	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24497	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by congratulating my previous speaker on this marathon reading performance. But now take a deep breath – that was really impressive! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today we are once again deciding on a whole range of agricultural law standards, ranging from production to the marketing of fertilizers, food safety, procedural provisions, product labelling and so on – everything is going on. There are many important and right provisions which, to a good extent, also fall back on international agreements and ensure the participation of Austria in the market. These are all approved and well-founded materials. Many speakers have already addressed this in detail – especially the most important thing I would like to stress. It is only in this wealth of legislation that the following needs to be considered: They must also be applied, primarily by the producers, i.e. by the farmers. They should have studied best law, business administration, chemistry, biology, pharmacy and everything possible to be well prepared for their profession. So you can do an incredible amount of wrong in agriculture. The Minister has also explained how challenging this area is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] You give me the key word, Mrs. Colleague: Good information and, above all, good training are more important than ever, because it has never been as difficult as now to be a farmer or a farmer. It is a demanding profession that is no longer comparable to the activity of past decades. This means that the future of agriculture lies in training. That is why I tirelessly call on you to actively support the agricultural schools and again ask the Minister to keep this lifeline alive.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24537	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24559	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ will give its approval to the Agricultural Change Act. Why? – Simple: Because there are two essential points in it that can be spanned over all these eleven legislative instruments. On the one hand, it is an administrative simplification, such as the Forestry Act in which there will be deregulations, so that in the future, when there are changes in use, the Forestry Authority will no longer be involved accordingly if there is no forest. On the other hand, in addition to administrative simplification, there is also a great deal of clarity, such as in the wine law, where in the case of agricultural products, such as fruit wine, the corresponding chapter in the wine law is streamlined. But now on a personal concern: I would really like personally for us to achieve these measures of administrative simplification and clarification, perhaps also in the area of pig farming and pig farming. I therefore say this quite consciously because the Styria is known as a tourist and pleasure region, but if we do not watch out, especially the South Styria will become a waste region. This is the case because the construction applications for pig factories abound in the municipalities. These animal factories are getting bigger and bigger. The people who make these construction applications are also becoming more and more courageous. And that is why the great appeal here is to create clear guidelines, because finally the Styria and the South Styria will also remain the enjoyment and tourism region. If of 5.4 million massacres and processings taking place in Austria, one third, i.e. 1.8 million, are carried out alone in the South Styria, then it is, I believe, a command of the hour. I therefore call on all those who have now come to the speaker's desk and have spoken of farming structures to take these into account in the further procedure accordingly. We stand for small-structured agriculture, we want to protect existing farms, but we are against the expansion of animal farms, because this cannot ultimately be in a location. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24598	Mr Sacher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24619	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Debates of the European Parliament Grillitsch was rightly pointed out in the debate that we do not want to promote and support the large agricultural industry. And this is the occasion for me, especially since I come out of the Wachau, to break a lance for the accompaniment farmers. Especially in wine-growing and fruit-growing in our area, Mr. Federal Minister, with their specifics – with the stone terraces, with the cellar streets – it is the utility farmers – because the large wine-growing industry has no interest in the conservation, for example, of the cellar gases – the small utility farmers – who have their job in the industry or elsewhere – who are very important as landscape owners in the Wachau. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and Bravoruf des Abg. Pendl.]] We have already made a decision today in connection with the burning of wood. So we are very, very grateful for the fact that we have made this possible for a little more flexibility. However, I would also like to say something about the contents of today's package, which we decide here – the word fertiliser regulation. I know what I am talking about, and I have asked you questions several times, Mr Federal Minister. I appeal to the sense of responsibility and reason as to fertilisation, because we still have areas where nitrates are too high in drinking water, which are alarmingly high, and this is especially true of winemaking. And now I'm back with the auxiliary farmers: I believe that these use their sprays, including in fruit making, very specifically and carefully, while this pesticides use, which we are discussing in connection with bee dying, is more likely to take place in the large agricultural industry. And one last thing: There is no direct connection to the novelle of the Forest Act, but again and again the wishes of mountain bikers are also expressed to me in connection with tourism and our beautiful landscape. I would like to thank the Federal Forests for having already opened up the possibilities of mountain biking to a large extent. I certainly don't want to talk to the freebike in the forest, but there's also an appeal: When we talk about the forest roads, about these bring-over cooperatives, we could also remember in this context the expansion of mountain biking opportunities for tourism. In this sense: for further good cooperation!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24674	Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24695	Madam President. Mr. Minister! I would like to say something about the mountain farmers. This is clearly a conflict between Brussels and the Ministry of Agriculture, and one thing should be clarified here: This conflict should certainly not be paid by the mountain farmers. If something is to be paid or repaid here, then the Ministry of Agriculture should pay for it. But let me come to another topic: For winegrowers it is the basis of existence, for pleasures it is liquid food – the Styrian wine. Nature has given the Styria richly. The Styrian wine is well known beyond the borders. It stands for quality – quality, which is awarded national and international prizes. But not only for the wine is the Styria famous, but also for the fresh, juicy fruit. No wonder, for in a landscape that looks like a paradise, only Paradise fruits can grow. The apple is Austria's favorite fruit and the Styrian apple road the main supplier. But the apple can not only be eaten fresh, but also in many different delicacies, from apple vinegar to apple crate to apple juice and of course also to apple wine, i.e. must. [[Abg. Steibl: Apple strudel!]] What I am already on the subject now, because the amendment of the wine law will completely redefine the individual products of the fruit pyramid in the future. Thus, the acquisition of a state test number for the “Quality Sobstwein” and “Regional-specific quality fruit wine with a profile of origin” – that is to say, the region or the federal state must be indicated in the future – is mandatory. As far as the Styrian farmers are concerned, I am convinced that they will be a step forward in international comparison and will achieve additional quality criteria on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24756	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24777	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A lot has already been said, a lot of the right thing has already been said. Some of them weren't quite that good. A short replica on Mr Grillitsch, who meant that Austrian agriculture is working so well because the policy of the ÖVP and, above all, that of the Farmers' Federation is “debted” to it. [[Demonstrative applause and bravado with ODP representatives.]] Mr Grillitsch! I believe that the labor and the work of our farmers are “debted” to the fact that we still have a functioning agriculture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – There may well be a great difference between the policy of the peasantry and the zeal of the farmers. A big difference! Ladies and gentlemen! We have the Agro-Law Change Act in treatment, and there the change concerning the Health and Food Safety Act, and there I read in § 8 para. 2 The following point: ‘Development and implementation of measures to preserve and improve bee health, bee protection and the production of high-quality bee products;’ The question is that the AGES is now legally required to act here. They no longer need any chemical industries that finance any studies, but they can now do so by law – and I hope they do. And, Federal Minister, you and all of us can best support the AGES in this activity by prohibiting neonicotinoids, the bee poison.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24841	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is required on the part of the reporting. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Convention on the European Forest Institute; Approval of the Spanish language version, in 2201 of the Supplements as provided for in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Draft Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act BMLFUW – Agriculture and Forestry, 2291 of the Supplements. For this purpose, Deputies have Jakob Auer, Mag. Gäßner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I am therefore going to vote first on the parts of the proposed amendment concerned, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Jakob Auer, Mag. Mr Gässner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning Articles 2, 3 and 4. I would ask those Members of the House who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Draft Agricultural Law Change Act 2013 including title and receipt in 2297 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also voting in favour of this draft law at third reading. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:01:57]] 24. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (2294, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Implementation of the Biocidal Product Regulation (Biocidproduktegesetz – Biocidal ProductsG) (2342 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24945	We arrive at the 24th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Jannach is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e24972	Madam President. Federal Minister! ==References== The item on the agenda concerns the EU Biocidal Product Regulation. What's that about? – Basically about means such as wood products, disinfectants, but it is also rat poison below for example. If they are used in the wrong dose, they are ultimately also dangerous chemicals. The regulation shows once again how it works in practice: The EU gives the regulation, and it must be transposed into national law whether Austria wants it or not. And whether we have a law or not, is irrelevant in that case. We have to implement this regulation. The aim is to: This is also intended to further improve the free movement of these products, which represent dangerous chemicals, in Europe. There is a very critical opinion from the Salzburg Government – by the way, one of the very few opinions; otherwise, there were few comments, but this is very destructive. I'm just saying, “The new provisions contained in section 1 of the current government template are unclear, partly linguistically ill and also address serious concerns from the point of view of impracticability, since their interpretation means a real thought sports task.” So it's very, very difficult. I quote: ‘A fundamental revision of this provision is therefore urgently recommended.’ It will also be a matter of conceptual provisions. An amendment was tabled in the Committee by the government parties, which meant that this was done away with. We don't see it like that. What is particularly damaging to us in this new regulation is the so-called Union authorisation. This means that these new biocidal products, which can be used, can be authorised in a Member State, then presented to the EU Commission and then made available to all Member States more or less freely and can be used. We want a national system here. Security is especially important to us in the case of these dangerous means and we should be worthy of considering how to regulate it nationally and to examine these funds in all cases under national sovereignty. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As I said, we are taking the lead in this law. We reject this law, this new biocidal regulation, precisely because we want a national regulation for these products. We also have this in the pesticides and in the Chemicals Act, and we also do not want to rely on other European countries to determine what can be used in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25030	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25051	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Biocidal Product Law implements an EU directive, and we can do so relatively unproblematically because we have already implemented the previous directives dealing with chemicals in time in this House. We now experience that this Biocide Act – products that you use in your daily life – will certainly make it possible in Austria and will give you the opportunity to deal with them properly. If you go to the toilet in Parliament and wash your hands there, you will find on the wall a container with a disinfectant: This is covered by the Biocidal Product Act. If you use a gel plug at home, it is covered by the Biocidal Product Act. If you use “Tuss ends with annoying insects”, this is a product that falls under the Biocidal Product Law. If you have a dog and give it a flea band, then you have something at home that falls under this law. If you have ant invasions and “autobahns” and do what, you also have something at home. Wherever such a dead fish is on it, it is an environmentally toxic product. It is no different from the subject that we have recently discussed, but it is precisely preparations, products that are used at home. This biocidal product law and the European enforcement of this Directive ensure that these many, many products are properly tested in one place and that this examination can take place at a level that we could never represent in Austria alone for all products. Our problem is that in the pesticides used in agriculture, i.e. in the case of plant protection products, for many active substances used in Austria, we cannot finance the authorisation only for the use of the tested active substance in Austria for many cultures, because companies will hardly be able to use the €20 000, which costs a special authorisation for Austria alone – or the products will become so expensive that they can no longer be used. This will be a coming problem. We experience that the European regulation of this authorisation at least makes the biocidal products available. And we see that with this new directive each of these active substances is registered in the European Chemicals Agency and can be tracked where the products are. If something really happens, you get something on it, you can also follow the paths and protect people. We have thus created a European safety network. And if you are on holiday to Jesolo, there feel that there may be gels, and buying a product, then you can be sure that this is tested according to the standard, which is also applied in Austria. In fact, it is about products that are supposed to keep people unpleasant pests, mushrooms, pathogens from the body, and in fact, we like to have many things that we call poisons in other areas in this area in our environment. Because one thing I can certainly tell you: If you look at your fridge at home, then the possible and likely mushrooms that everyone has at home in the refrigerator before cleaning it are much more dangerous than anything else that can happen to you in life. That's why it's good to clean your fridge properly – the most important activity in your household life. On the subject we are dealing with here, neonicotinoids: Be sure that much of what we have here in the Biocidal Product Act and what you use in everyday life is neonicotinoids, because they are now least concerned about human health. And if you're talking about it being nerve poisons, just for insects, but that's not what we're thanking God. This is not problematic for us, and it is therefore contained in many areas. Whoever does not want it, and in the private sector, he should say it. But he will then have to free himself from many who make life comfortable to him. Because something can happen again and again – with us the children once, when they were small, started to drink at the Autan; this is something to ward off gels and is one of the repellents; these are also included here – it is quite good if you have a telephone number at home, namely that of the poisoning center. It is true that these materials and these materials are safe if they are not in the hands of people who are not safe themselves. Children are not safe, so you have to be careful, because something can always happen. And that's why a phone number is important, and I would ask everyone to write to you the-se you can need, because that's the poisoning information center: 01 – 406 43 43. That's what you need, and that's probably the most important information of the day. Write it down! If something really happens, you'll be glad if you have it. I wish you a nice evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25088	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25124	Thank you, Madam President. High house! On the biocidal products, the biocidal product law, we must already be aware of: What does that mean? – Biocide, that's from Greek: Bios means life, and caedere comes from Latin and means kill. [[Oi Rufe at ÖVP]] That means nothing more than killing life in translation. And if we hear all this about this directive now, we have to keep a clear eye on one thing, for example in the glyphosate: We know from the most recognized experts that this is a further developed chemical combat substance, that this so toxic poison is being carried out on all children's playgrounds in the communities, in schools, on golf courses – not only in agriculture. Agriculture uses it in part to spray cereals dry. This will be put on the wheat shortly before the harvest. This wheat is then also used for bread. [[Call: Weakness]] And as we know today, organic bread is already contaminated by these products. It can be proved today that science has made enormous progress. When I hear that colleague Schultes says: Yes, neonicotinoides are also affected and they are the least for humans!, then we have to keep in mind one thing: DDT was produced worldwide in 1963 and used as the so-called "agent orange bomb" in Vietnam, of which the environment is still massively affected today, where environmental damage is still seen. This is the basic substance of neonicotinoides. But not only that it is derived from it. Today we know from all experts that these neonicotinoids are 7,000 times more toxic, 7,000 times more toxic than DDT. And one more thing we must bear in mind, above all, as Members: Worldwide, 100 000 kilograms were produced in the high flower of the DDT 1963. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] And because of this ÖVP agricultural policy, we are today bringing over 10,000 kilograms of neonicotinoides to our soils, to our fields, and thus we have spent as much poison as DDT was produced worldwide in 1963. You only need to convert it: 7,000 times more toxic. This does not say the BZÖ, that does not say the Gerhard Huber, but that says the most recognized experts. [[Call: Who is this?]] We know today that in small quantities the glyphosate causes such damage that we have it in the water that we have it in everywhere. We just don't investigate it. And if you look at the SPÖ briefly: How much glyphosate is spent annually by the Austrian federal railways on the railways? Do you know? - Yes, please. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Why are you looking at the SPÖ?]] Who is the Federal Minister for Transport? – I believe that the SPÖ is responsible. One has to look at the fact that today, on small routes such as the tram from Innsbruck to the Stubaital, the entire weed is being fought with glycosate, and this glyphosate goes one by one due to the location in Innsbruck's groundwater, which is exactly the water reservoir above Innsbruck. Mr Hakl will confirm it. We decide today with this biocidal product law. I hope that once again you will think that you are finally making a policy that is for our food, for our people and for agriculture, and not a policy that only helps Brussels and the EU groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25203	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25224	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the beginning, I would simply like to make it clear, that biocidal products are active in the non-agricultural field, namely in the control of pests. Mr Schultes also said this in his speech: We all have such resources at home, and that is why I think it is very, very necessary that we have a law that regulates the introduction of this biocidal product in advance. And this law or novel, which we also decide today, regulates exactly that, in advance, one is already making a risk assessment between the effectiveness of this biocidal product and the risk to humans, animals and the environment. This law is based on a 1998 directive, where the first directive has existed, and is now being developed on the basis of the findings of this directive. This is what Mr Jannach said in his speech. This law, which we are adopting today, is not a dictatorship of the EU, but it is a further development of the directive on which we have already passed a biocidal law in 2000. The current law remains almost unaffected in its scope, so there are only a few changes that are now actually being implemented with the novelle. These are, as I think, very important changes, such as the fact that a new regulation will also apply to products treated with biocidal products. This is actually, I think, for the consumer, an improvement for the consumer. This is an improvement I very much support. The second improvement I support is that active substances, for example, with other properties that present a risk to groundwater, are also included in the active substances to be replaced. These are indeed positive achievements that we are implementing with this law today. I am convinced that it is important for consumers to know that the resources they have at home are not harmless and that they really derive from it a responsible way of dealing with the resources. But I am also convinced, Minister, that the law can only achieve its effect if there are proper controls. And as a minister, you are again required, because the controls fall into the control of your ministry. I think the law is good. We must also look at the fact that the controls will actually have their effect.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25275	Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25297	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The colleagues have already explained what biocidal products are, perhaps I do not need to repeat that. The change in the situation is that an EU directive has previously been applied, on the basis of which the law was so to speak. Now, however, there is the Commission's new biocidal product regulation, which will be legally effective and from 1 January 1990 onwards. It should be applied uniformly across the EU on September 2013. And this adjustment must now be made with this new law. Some advantages have already been mentioned. And we think – and this is perhaps the difference with Mr Jannach – that a Europe-wide system is already useful, for several reasons. One is simply free movement of goods and today's open borders. Consumers get their products wherever they buy or can buy them. They are on holiday and always have the handling of similar fabrics and products. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. There are also rules on nanoactivities, nanotechnologically produced ingredients, which I also think are essential. In the future, elements of nanotechnology will be even more dedicated to us, in the food environment and in the wider sense from cosmetics to biocidal products. However, there are also some criticisms on our part, namely the EU strategy. There is a simplified authorisation procedure for Annex 1, and we believe that this is quite to be considered, namely in this way very, very simple authorisation procedures, which, of course, depend on the risk assessment. And to assess risk, as we know, is always an area where we have different discussions. This is not provided for in the Biocidal Directive in particular in the context of the EU plant protection product directive, which now already provides for the 2009 package, namely to provide for sustainable use plans or to implement the collection of market and user statistics – which are now coming in the next one, two years. In spite of these shortcomings, despite the basically positive attitude towards the uniform regulation across Europe, we will not give this law our consent, because we believe that we need to deepen, risk-based, to improve the strategy, of course, which is legally binding on the EU, which, in our view, is not enough. In this sense: A glass that from our point of view is half empty and not half full.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25348	It now has Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25369	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Biocidal products are allocated to around 22 product groups. For example, disinfectants, wood-protection products, but also anti-foam infestations, so much of what is used in the household – it has already been addressed. It is clear that, unlike previous decades, such resources are much more responsible today. Although some of them are already drawing horror scenarios, it is clear that the approval procedures are more stringent – clearly. The controls must also be, and these days we are dealing more carefully with what is also right. People need security in agriculture, forestry, industry, but also in the household, in private gardens, where these funds are also used. And what is above all what is being done now is that we need a new law, as the EU rules are there, the biocidal product regulation. It is also useful that this is regulated across Europe, that there is a single legal framework. This is absolutely necessary in the case of open borders and free movement of goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25396	Mr Grillitsch is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25417	Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister has now made it quite clear that we need this law because these biocidal products differ substantially from plant protection products in that they are not intended for the protection of plants and plant products, but are used for other purposes, for example for the protection of murals or also for disinfection of surfaces or bathing waters. And what, I think, is also an immeasurable thing in this discussion is that there is always a connection with the use of plant protection products in agriculture, for example neo-notinoids. This is really an immeasurable one, since farmers in Austria are being strictly controlled, trained and also have a strict retention period for these plant protection products, ladies and gentlemen. Let us note that farmers with plant protection products, probably like no other in this country, are really responsible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, we should really have a fair discussion here, because it does not do anything if we point our fingers at each other and say: Well, on the balconies and in the garden everything is allowed!, and the farmers who really do it all right will then be sentenced to it. That's not fair!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25457	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25478	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I admit that it is not quite easy to stay calm if you have “experts” like Mr Huber – under quotation marks. Nevertheless, this biocidal product regulation, which we are discussing today, should remain a matter of fact. We know that there is a biocidal product directive of the European Union, which lasts until the 1st century. It is valid in September 2013 and replaced by a biocidal product regulation. This also requires that we in Austria adapt the laws accordingly, and with this new biocidal product law we will replace the old one accordingly. As a rule, these biocidal products are chemical products, chemicals whose use is associated with a certain risk. That is why it is simply necessary to have a careful handling of these means. Important and one of the benefits of this law are the rules which include the intended evaluation of the active substances, in the sense of checking the active substances for their chemical identity. In contrast to Mr Jannach, I also claim that it is an advantage if product-specific approval can be made throughout Europe – in fact, free movement of goods, otherwise it is less controllable. In this way it can be assured that the funds used are also authorised in Europe accordingly. It is therefore this law that implements a European change. It is a basis for greater safety and simplification for our consumers, and I think we should agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25518	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 2342 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law to give a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:26:39]] 25. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975) (2226/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25576	We arrive at the 25th. Agenda item. None of the two applicants are present, which is why the first person to speak according to the order of the club strength is Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25600	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Even at the advanced hour, I think, this is a subject that has been on us for a long time. It is certain that I think, for all those who have gained experience in research committees, an important topic, a very exciting subject. We know exactly whether it is about the positioning of the chairman or the design of the chairman or about the decisions of the evidence or who decides in the event of disputes. Above all, the question of minority law is known. I think we were very far from the negotiations. I am convinced that if you try to work out the cracks that were left at the time and all of us know – I am saving myself for time – then this can become a very creative, exciting discussion in the Committee on Rules of Procedure. I therefore believe that everyone has an interest that, before we have a committee of inquiry, we will in all cases need a new committee of inquiry, otherwise we will have the same discussions that have accompanied us again and again in the past. I can tell my group that we are going very offensively and creatively into this discussion in the Committee and hope that we will achieve a solution in our common sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25632	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25653	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Refreshing was not only my previous speaker's speech, but it is really remarkable that none of the applicants would find it worth the effort to be here when the request is debated. So the FPÖ cannot take this application very seriously itself! That's my impression. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The proposal itself contains a few very suitable proposals, you have to say. But he also has some weaknesses, such as the fact that the Committee should meet in two days every committee week. So if we had taken these two days to the last committee of inquiry, he would still be very, very long, because, as you know, we have had a wealth of weeks where we have spent more than two days. In other areas, this is different: For example, the proposal to set up a conciliation body within the meaning of the Constitutional Court in a dispute between the institutions of Parliament and, for example, ministries is a proposal that we feel quite close to. However, I believe that the President or the President will clarify all the disputes between the political groups, even in the light of the experience of the last committee, Dr Moser, the last committee does not necessarily conclude the wisdom. That is why, I believe, we need a proper discussion. But as I said, I would be pleased if the applicants were present in the future and took part in the debate accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25696	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25717	Madam President. High house! As so often, Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it has not been possible for the ÖVP to allow the House to make its way through the high House with swift conclusions, because, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make it clear: The liberal parliamentary club could very well have started with two speakers on this subject at first reading. We wanted to save you that, in so far as I, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen – and you should not make fun of it – deliberately asked my parliamentary club to speak on this subject. [[Bravoruf at the ÖVP]] [[Demonstratetive applause with SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Mr Silhavy and Mr Mag. Worm.]] If you are powerful in the Rules of Procedure – let go of interlocutory calls here – Mrs Colleague, you know the following: If a non-applicant is speaking here as the first of a group, then, ladies and gentlemen, the size of the political groups will be determined and I will now go into media and discuss why we need to discuss this issue at this first reading today. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Amon smiles and knows exactly why it is only today, in May of 2013, that we are discussing this subject, although, estimated Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of strengthening the control rights of the National Council through the possibility of the establishment of investigation committees by a qualified minority has been under discussion since 2009. Especially you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, know very well when I address the year 2009, which deal you, you, the colleagues of the Greens and those of the BZÖ, have been dealing with at the time with, namely, the two-thirds majority you used to loosen up banking secrecy in Austria. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Petzner: You're welcome, where have you been?]] - Please, I wasn't there, I wasn't here in the high house anymore. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Clickovits:... Dementia!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have therefore purchased your two-thirds majority for the resolution and relaxation of banking secrecy in Austria with the commitment to allow the setting up of investigation committees by a qualified minority here in the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that exactly, I do not need to tell you again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It surprises me, with which – unfortunately I almost have to say this – not objectivity, but superiority You are now acting here, intervening, knowing precisely that this strengthening of control functions must be carried out, control possibilities of the National Council. You know that it is necessary and promised for a year and a day, not only by the government, the coalition parties, but also, of course, by the opposition parties, that there should be the establishment of a committee of inquiry by a qualified minority – of course, besides the decision-making by a majority here in the National Council – and that we are here to make concrete and simple proposals with this proposal by my colleague Dr Fichtenbauer, Mag. Mr Stefan and other Members of the Free Parliament Club have tabled, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Silhavy: (in sparsely occupied series of the FPÖ pointing) Yes, that's what you see!]] When we go into detail and recall, Mrs Colleague, what has happened here in recent years, we see that, in particular, the SPÖ and ÖVP colleagues themselves brought the stumbling blocks into the negotiations to bring about a failure or a delay in the negotiation, and it was suddenly a problem on the part of the SPÖ to find here a conciliation body within the meaning of the Constitutional Court if there are problems between ministries and the Investigation Committee. And on the other hand, the ÖVP suddenly wanted Members in an investigation committee to have no immunity. – That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Kogler: So what?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Member of the Committee of Inquiry with immunity?]] To that end, it was necessary to find a clear, feasible approach here. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: (in the direction of ÖVP) You do not have to condemn it!]] And, Mr Klubobmann, it was also necessary to discuss this procedure in a Committee on Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that it will be important to you and all of us here in the National Council to allow the setting up of investigation committees by a qualified minority for years to shine with headlines in the media, ladies and gentlemen of the Government parties, to celebrate again and again how to upgrade the opposition parties in their rights, but then to leave them only in words for years and not to commit any acts, that will be too little. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] There will be a sample of nails in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, on which factual decisions of the National Council and the representatives of all political groups in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure are ready to take place here in order to actually enhance the control rights of the National Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25913	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e25934	Madam President. I can already imagine the interesting discussions in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Since the government parties also believe that we do not need a meeting in September, there will still be many Rules of Procedure committees where we can discuss this interestingly. [[Abg. Scheibner: Right!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] There seems to be a clear division of tasks here. So the whole debate starts at the beginning of the period. I believe that Mr Scheibner has also made a request for minority rights; we have put forward a request. The applications have been in place since 2008, and they have been debated several times. And what always surprised me in the period was what absurd position the SPÖ volunteered in. There was a broad agreement. The story was not a junkim, by the way, because we supported the relief of banking secrecy back then, but we also negotiated that there was a signature – Mr Cap will remember: Three letters, ‘Cap’, are on the paper; ‘head’, four letters, are also on it. Both have signed that there should be the investigation committee as a minority right, even with a timetable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: How many letters do you have?]] – “Kogler” was on it, which has more letters, so together was more inside. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Six!]] In any case, we would have kept that. The point is that, unfortunately, the paper you signed is not worth it – this is also a statement that can be made in Parliament – and the debates in this committee, the committee, where this has always happened, have been rather bizarre, because in the last few periods it has been so that rather the ÖVP has blocked and said it does not want this investigation committee. In this period, the ÖVP has said: All right, all right, let's do it! – Then she found a willing partner, namely the SPÖ, who always said: Well, actually, but not so!, and especially if there is to be a clarification office somewhere that can decide on disputes: Well, we don't want to! Mr Pendl has also come to the U Committee instead of Mr Herbe as a negotiator. There was also a picture – apparently there was the pressure from the top of the party's story. [[Abg. Amon: Jarolim! Jarolim!]] - No, no, the herbs were first. No, Mr Pendl is sitting in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Apparently, the pressure was there that a certain German chancellor, who apparently has fears of contact with investigative committees, then said, actually, we do not want to. Now we have exactly two weeks in fact, because if you want to enforce it, we need a first reading, we need a second reading. Even if we take the old proposal, we will have to complete it by June. That's obviously the last chance that's there. That's the next thing I think is completely absurd, because you'd have had the chance to clean it up. If you don't correct it now, it's an election topic. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's how it looks!]] This is a decision that the government parties can take. Apparently, it is a particularly interesting election campaign to say: We don't want control! - I'm not surprised. Berlakovich said two days before the Salzburg election: We don't want bees! – I mean, you can try everything; you can try to win elections like that. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly! That's how he thinks...!]] It didn't work either. It would have been a chance to solve the problem now. If you do not solve it now, it will be a topic for the National Council elections – and certainly even after the elections. Meanwhile, in Carinthia, there is the agreement that an investigation committee should come as a minority law. Moreover, in the countries where the EIA governs, there are in many cases the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law. The current regulation is therefore not to be maintained in the long run. If German chancellor Faymann wants to debate the question of refusal of control in the TV confrontations, his non-appearance, yes, please! Everyone can choose what the main issues are. You have apparently chosen the strategy to make this the election topic. We accept this and will certainly debate it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] For us Greens, I say this again, the establishment of a committee of inquiry as a minority law is a coalition condition, no matter how the elections are going. Without such a control right, there will be no reasonable control in Austria in Parliament. And I hope that whoever will remain in the government by ÖVP and SPÖ, the government party recognises that control is necessary, is a key task of Parliament and that the blockade of refusing control should belong to the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e26069	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e26090	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very a pity that this is no longer going to happen in this legislative period, although, as Mr Brosz rightly said, there have been numerous applications, starting with Mr Scheibner's request in 2008 until now that the Committee of Inquiry should become a minority right. There is even the signature of the two Coalition Club owners Cap and Head with letter and seal. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They have to be less than 50 percent!]] I am very sorry that these signatures are not worth anything. And, of course, one will have to discuss in the election campaign that you not only promise something that You then do not hold, but that your own signature, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, is nothing at all worth. The opposition has fulfilled its part as far as this agreement of the time is concerned. You have not done this to this day, and you will have to remember it in the National Council election campaign in autumn, ladies and gentlemen. And it's also quite right that you should be reminded. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Why you are afraid that the Committee of Inquiry will become a minority right is perhaps also due to the fact that in every scandal there is already a lot of ÖVP and also a lot of SPÖ in it. Just take the Telekom scandal: What today – listen to me, Mrs. Tamandl! – what, then, Mr Rudolf Fischer today, what the former Telekom Austria Board of Directors, Rudolf Fischer, said in court, has a very, very large dimension because he said about €500 000 about the current accusations to Gernot Rumpold and FPÖ that these €500 000 are nothing compared to what happened to party-related agencies, fore-field organisations and mayors of whom? – From SPÖ and ÖVP! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höfinger]] Farmers' Federation, OmniMedia, echo media house, all these companies he called. [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Where are they...?]] If I wish to be one of the judges, it is not only against people, I say, who are doing so consistently and stubbornly in the third camp, but also against those of the government parties – for one thing is already noticed, ladies and gentlemen: When it comes to charges in a certain political direction, one is very, very quick, even with the pre-conceptions, also with the pre-conceptions by the media. And when it comes to the big parties when it comes to the peasantry? Mr Grillitsch, you can be happy to make a revelation: What did he mean today in court, Mr Telekom Austria's Board of Directors Fischer, with the payments to the farmers' association, where he says that this is more than €500 000? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] What did he mean, Mr Cap, by the payments of Telekom Austria to the echo media house? I wish, ladies and gentlemen, that even there justice goes so consistently and hard as with others that it does not at all appear to be suspect that it is also acting out of party-political motives. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: wishful thinking!]] I want to have said this very consciously today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If information is provided, then this applies to all, regardless of the party's political colour, and then this applies not only to the investigation committee, but only to the judicial system, which has the task of acting independently, objectively and neutrally, on criminally relevant charges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] Let us take a second example of why ÖVP and SPÖ so strongly refuse to introduce the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law. – Mr Cap, your favorite topic now comes again, namely the emergency stateization of Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Abg. Grosz: The tears are already shot vertically at him!]] I always wonder: Since 2009, they have been preaching consistently with the Austrian People’s Party, how evil and how criminal and how bad all the Carinthians were down there. – Now the BZÖ itself – the BZÖ, which, according to your opinion, is the person concerned – goes and says: Let's set up a committee of inquiry! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who is against it? Red and black!]] Let's make an investigation committee on this whole hypo-causa! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] Just as there was already one in Carinthia with the Rolf Holub, we also make a national! Let us look at the local credit immediately, let's look at the ÖVAG and make a new banking investigation committee! [[Abg. May. Kogler: The so-called emergency stateization!]] That was the BZÖ's request. Who has rejected this request? - And who supported him? [[Abg. Grosz: Red and Black!]] – All three opposition parties: FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ have voted in favour of this new Banking Investigation Committee. [[Abg. May. Kogler: 10-billion hole!]] Who's against it? – The Austrian People’s Party and the Austrian Social Democracy, although it is about tax billions here, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] That's about 10, 15, 20 billion euros. If there is no need for an investigation committee for these sums, I wonder where? [[Abg. Grosz: Hide and cover!]] And first of all, I ask myself, Mr Amon and Mr Cap, what do the government parties have to hide, hide and get under the carpet, that they are not prepared to investigate this hypo-negotiation and to see that they are not prepared to look at the emergency nationalization and the economy that has been made in municipal credit since the emergency, and that they are not prepared to look at Mr Hörl, the emergency nationalization and its consequences at the Austrian People's Bank Group. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] [[Abg. Huber: Hypo Tirol!]] I don't understand! I can tell you exactly the reason, Mr Hörl: Because the Austrian People's Party, with the Finance Ministers Pröll and Fekter, is in this mess! This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with BZÖ, Greens and FPÖ.]] But I promise you one: Not only will we continue to clarify and allocate the political responsibility for this mismanagement, which you have been responsible for in all three of these state banks since 2009, but we will also, ultimately and at the end of the day, continue to fight with success for the Committee of Inquiry as a minority right in this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, so that we finally have European standards in this area, which have long been in use in Germany and other European countries and where Austria has been lagging behind for years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the BZÖ will fight for this. For this we will also be quite, quite offensive in the election campaign and tell people clearly and honestly who is willing to take responsibility, who is willing to explain who is willing to put all the cards on the table, and where the sluggishers and where the blockers and where the preventers and where the under-the-Teppich-Kehrer sit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] The BZÖ has not only shown in the corruption investigation committee that it is offensive for information, but we have shown this by our request as regards the Banking Investigation Committee, we have demonstrated this with our requests as regards the Committee of Inquiry as minority law here in the National Council, and we will prove it in the future. You have revealed with all your behaviors – and this is also true of making people aware – that you have learned nothing from all these scandals that you are not for more control, not for more transparency, not for more opposition rights, but that you want to continue the status quo. Anyone who looks at these scandals – BUWOG, Telekom, Staatsbanken-Scandal – sees what dimension and, above all, what sum this is ultimately about for the Austrian taxpayer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höfinger]] We are fighting for this tax money, and we are also fighting for more transparency, more control and more opposition rights in this House – not only in this legislative period, but also in the coming one.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e26360	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e26382	Madam President. High house! I'm making it a little shorter and more excited now: Control by the opposition parties is very important and necessary. This application is very justified. It has also shown in the past how justified this request is. And it's also important that he be treated today. Let us think a little bit about it – it has already been mentioned by some colleagues earlier – which the past has brought! Investigation committees – as we now have to look at this legislative period or the previous ones – have always existed when public opinion or public pressure on the ruling parties has become too strong and when the media have exerted such pressure. Then the ruling parties were forced to move. And then there was a committee of inquiry, which one would have let go so larifari and at some point strangled. In order for the opposition to exercise control, that is the task of the opposition, one must put the craft into her hands. It was promised in 2009, we all know. Nothing is happening. So the authority is there. Ladies and gentlemen, you can now prove that you have handshake quality: Mr Cap, my colleague, Mr Head, signed a request or, more specifically, signed this agreement. You can now show that you – I must not call the term now, otherwise I get an order call – have something in your pants and come across the opposition. I think it's necessary for movement to come in here. I don't know what constellation after this National Council election will have the say here. It's an advantage for everyone. I can only ask you from the SPÖ, from the ÖVP, all here in the house, let's go this way together and take this step together! The application shall have its authorisation. Let us support him together and make something reasonable for Austrian parliamentarianism and for control in this House! That would be the right way, so we will support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e26422	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 2226/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:52:08]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00203_d7e26455	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 2290/A(E) to 2305/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 1479/J to 14872/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 23. May 2013, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
