ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e3772	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to open the session and ask you to find yourself in your places. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 198. Meeting of 22. In April 2013, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Ikrath, Doppler, Ing. Hofer, Dr. Winter, Mag. Kogler, Mag. Korun and Mag. Honey. [[09:05:44]] Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e3806	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Members Elisabeth Kaufmann-Bruckberger has renounced their mandate and has replaced them. Gernot Darmann was appointed to the National Council. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I would now ask Mr Zanger, rapporteur, to read the vow formula. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e3842	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e3863	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e3879	I welcome the honourable Member in our midst. [[General condolences.]] I announce that the current hour will be transferred to ORF 2 up to 10.30 a.m. To ORF III this session will be transferred live in full length. Mr Klubobmann Bucher spoke on business treatment. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e3917	Madam President. High house! We object to the agenda. We want the ban on speculation to be put on the agenda so that we can end the negotiations on this before the national Council elections and, once and for all, decide here in the House that speculation with taxes and speculation on pump is forbidden. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] We want the negotiations, which have already gone a long way and where the individual parties of the House have already come very close to each other, to be finally concluded. Many kilometers have been negotiated and there are still a few centimetres missing – so I would have described this briefly. That is why we want this speculation to end. There is already great agreement that it can succeed. We want it to be on the agenda and then referred back to the committee so that we can decide before the summer.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e3958	You heard the objections. I note that I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. In accordance with Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, a debate on this will be required after the current hour. I will limit speaking time to 5 minutes per speaker and a total of three speakers per club. [[09:09:18]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e3986	In this way we will now reach the current hour on the subject: “Current developments in the Middle East and the impact on Austria” Mr Amon is the first to speak. I also give him the floor and I say that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4013	Madam President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, if we are dealing with the situation in the Middle East within this current hour, there is, of course, an evening-filling range of topics to be discussed. If you look in detail at all that has happened in connection with the so-called Arab Spring, whether it be in Iran in the Arab Republic of Egypt, whether it be in Libya, be it in Tunisia, whether it be the difficult situation in Israel and Palestine or also the dramatic developments that we are experiencing in Syria when dealing with all these countries in detail, then the term “Arab Spring” sounds almost too positive because it expresses an exclusively positive development that we do not know God everywhere in these countries. Austria has pursued a very positive foreign policy in the Middle East since at least the 1970s, has been extremely successful and recognised there and is still there. It is the very mediating attitude taken by Austria in particular, it is the very balancing position taken by Austria; and it is undoubtedly a right Middle East policy that Austria has operated for decades. For us, this balancing Middle East policy is so important, because the supposed long distance is definitely not a protection against being affected by developments in the Middle East. Many believe that. It is often thousands of miles that separate us, and many think that whatever happens there and there has no effect on Austria. It should be recalled, however, that in the 1970s, we were in Austria, too, massively confronted with terrorist waves, with terrorist attacks, the Austrians who directly affected the Austrian population. As a result, it was a real foreign policy that led to a satisfaction of the situation and made Austria almost something like a safe haven, a peaceful port. Alois Mock once said: One can make mistakes in economic policy and correct it. One can make mistakes in social policy and correct it. One can make mistakes in education policy and correct it. [[Abg. Strache: You're not correcting!]] If you make a mistake in foreign policy, you may not be able to correct it. That is why a considered foreign policy is of particular importance, and it is therefore also important that today the Austrian Parliament, within this current hour, also deal with this issue of the Middle East, but in particular with the Austrian Peacekeeping commitment, which has led us to the Golan, for example since 1974, where we have tried to maintain peace between Syria and Israel with several hundred men, and this has also been done by the National Security Council last Monday. We have also been involved in a logistics unit in Lebanon since 2011, involving officers, police officers, legal experts and various UN operations throughout the Middle East. The largest quota, however, is Austria, as already mentioned, on the Golan and there has a very crucial task in monitoring the ceasefire, in the decommissioning of troops, and is the buffer between two parties to conflict. Last Monday, the National Security Council – which has lifted secrecy on this point – also dealt with the situation and the question of how to proceed further, because it only makes sense to carry out this operation, if it can be estimated, if it guarantees a certain stability when this security initiative is designed to continue to exercise its mandate. This security situation will be continuously reviewed together with the Department of Peacekeeping Operations of the United Nations. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister here in a very special way for this commitment. I would also like to thank you, Mr Foreign Minister, for your visit, which you have recently given to our soldiers at the Golan, which also shows them that this commitment is of particular importance, that it is particularly important and that the leaders of our Republic in your person, Mr Foreign Minister, do not press in a critical situation to drive there in this crisis area and thank our soldiers for the work they are doing there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also think it would be useful for other leaders of the Republic, such as the Minister of Defence, to soon see an opportunity to give a similar signal to our soldiers there. I think that makes sense. I think that's important. We are proud of our soldiers who serve so importantly there, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We understand very well the concern of the relatives for their husbands serving there. That is why it is also so important that you carefully examine and assess the situation from day to day. It would, however, be irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen, to run away like this in a situation that is so critical. We do not do that, Foreign Minister, you have repeatedly stressed this. That is not what our soldiers are doing, and that is why they are not grateful enough for this service they are doing. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is true, of course, that the situation is difficult to estimate. We've experienced this, there was the kidnapping of UN soldiers. You don't know how the situation will develop. That is why, I believe, it is also necessary to appeal to the Community of States and the United Nations to do everything possible to guarantee the security of soldiers acting under the protection of the United Nations and on behalf of the United Nations as far as possible. That is why it is not possible to join a easing of the arms embargo, as some have demanded, ladies and gentlemen. It is necessary to bring those responsible for this incredible war to the International Court of Justice, ladies and gentlemen. It is the fragility of the war, which means an incredibly dramatic situation for the civilian population as well. The United Nations now expects 60,000 deaths, out of 3.6 million displaced persons, that is, displaced persons. The Community of States is also endeavoring to comply with refugees and the victims in any way with financial assistance. Regrettably, what observers have been saying for a long time now is that, as some states continue to pursue their interests there, it is formally leading to a bleeding on both sides of the conflict parties – a situation that is unsatisfying, ladies and gentlemen, and where we have to do everything we can to make a contribution to satisfaction. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to express my personal respect and recognition for the foreign policy you are making in the Middle East. It has been a great success for your foreign policy that it has succeeded in bringing the Palestinian side, for example, into a new situation in the United Nations, and that almost all European states have joined your position. This is a great success for the common Austrian foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4077	Mr Spindelegger spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4098	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! If we want to use this current hour to discuss the situation in the Middle East, I would like to start with the biggest foreign policy challenge that is currently being faced, and that is the war in Syria. This war in Syria, ladies and gentlemen, probably cost more than 60,000 people – one suspects, up to 100,000. We see that a million people have already fled Syria, for example in Lebanon, the neighbouring country, almost 500 000. We see that 4 million people in Syria are fleeing within the country and that now 7 million – 7 million! – People depend on being supported by international organisations in such a way that they can survive. These are figures that show what a war can do in the Middle East, in this case in Syria. I am convinced that if we break this down to Austria, we too are affected. I can give you the three points where I see that we too have obligations and that we must act as well. The first point is to alleviate the humanitarian catastrophe that is happening there. Yes, we too have given help as a state. Over €5 million we have made available from the foreign disaster fund, food aid has been provided. We only decided in the Council of Ministers two weeks ago to make a further €2 million available to the refugee camps in Lebanon. This is necessary, Austrian organisations are also active in these refugee camps. I have visited one in Lebanon where the Caritas are active, there are others. I would also like to say a sincere thank you to all the ladies and gentlemen who are working in these organisations from Austria today for their humanitarian efforts. It's great when you see how it's being helped. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Any help that comes to people today is a help to alleviate further suffering. But we must not overlook the following: There are about 20,000 people every day crossing the border between Syria and Lebanon and going to a new refugee camp there. This shows us the dimension of how this is progressing and how necessary it is to end this conflict and this war in Syria. I would like to address a second issue from Austria directly. We are directly affected because 377 Austrian soldiers stand at the Golan, between Syria and Israel – not just since yesterday. Austria has been involved for 39 years, and next year it will be 40 years that we are serving there within the framework of the UN, and this is an actual peace service. The purpose and purpose of this mission at the Golan is to keep the two then war parties Syria and Israel apart and to ensure that there is no armed conflict between the two sides again. The situation has changed completely. Today it is not a conflict between Syria and Israel, but today it is a conflict within Syria. These struggles between the Assad troops and the rebels and the Syrian opposition – as they may be called – are also going down in the zone in which Austrians are stationed, and therefore the situation is highly dangerous. I would particularly like today to express my express recognition and my respect for those who serve there every day and try to ensure that this peace service of the United Nations can remain a peace service. These are excellent personalities. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's not just what we're saying. I spoke to the Israeli Prime Minister, the Israeli President, and the praise for the Austrian soldiers came from there. I also heard this in Lebanon from the President, the Prime Minister and the President of Parliament. All of them say that the Austrians have Courage, that the Austrians also have high professionalism and that they also have this famous fingertip feeling. This is something that can also make us proud, when said, Austria is doing something to maintain peace. I don't want to imagine what would happen if there were no UN soldiers at the Golan, even if there was a risk that Israel would be involved in the conflict. We all don't want to. That is why it is necessary to continue a peace service within the UN at the Golan. And then the Austrians bear the decisive responsibility. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! However necessary it is within the UN that Austria continues to provide this service, I have also been confirmed by the Indian commander of this UNDOF troupe at Golan. He said the Austrians are the backbone, and if there are no more, then the mission at the Golan will be total It is a question of being in question. This must also give us reason to consider all that we naturally have to take into account from the point of view of how we can guarantee security for our soldiers. This is a difficult walk. On the last Monday in the Security Council, we discussed these issues very thoroughly. And I would like to thank all those who have taken part in this debate very constructively, because in the end it is a question for us to ensure the security of the soldiers, but it is also a question of the United Nations to remain credible and maintain a mission that is necessary in order not to cross this conflict from Syria to neighbouring countries such as Israel or Lebanon. On this occasion I should also like to thank all those who work as Austrian soldiers in the Middle East, whether this is UNTSO, whether it is in Lebanon within the framework of UNIFIL, so that Lebanon is not included in this conflict in Syria. Austria is also particularly praised there as a military player. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, we also have to deal with the third challenge. Can't there be moments when we can't stay at the Golan anymore if we also have to pull off our soldiers from security interests? – I can say this very clearly: Some believe that the conflict in Syria can only be resolved in military terms. They therefore want to ensure that the so-called Syrian opposition, including arms from the European Union, is upgraded. I do not represent this view. I do not believe that a lifting of the current arms embargo against Syria, that is, against the Assad troops, just as against the Syrian opposition, would actually lead to an end to the conflict. Because we must not forget: Assad is not alone either. There are enough other countries that deliver weapons where this conflict can get a new dimension. Modern weapons for the so-called Syrian opposition, which raises the question: Who is that? We see a wide range of organisations that are engaged there, one that is to fight against Assad, but I do not want to see dangerous weapons in these hands, honestly, because tomorrow they will be able to fight against completely other countries and also against Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a danger to be taken into account. The second is: I also do not believe that a greater number of weapons in this country will lead to an end to the war. On the contrary! It would contribute to an escalation spiral. And we don't want to do that. [[Congratulation with ÖVP, SPÖ and BZÖ as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] That is why I am firmly convinced that we must all focus on achieving a political solution to this conflict. And that is why all the forces that want this political solution must be supported. And if two church representatives were abducted, that's an alarming signal. I can speak to you again today. In the media it was reported that they had already been released again. This is not the case, they are still abducted because they have taken action for peace in Syria. The international community and we are called upon to oppose this. Not abduction is announced, but a peace process, a round table conversation with all the representatives who are in Syria. That is the need we must push for, that must be the political solution of tomorrow. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Dr. Cap and Mr Strache.]] I am therefore grateful for the fact that the National Security Council has approved a broad majority of this line, which we represent of Austria. We will continue to oppose the removal of the arms embargo, even if the countries in the European Union want it, because it is the wrong way and we want to achieve a political solution in the Middle East. Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, the Middle East is not as far as it seems geographically. A wave of refugees from Syria can meet Europe at any time. We must therefore be committed to helping those, namely neighbouring countries, who are currently receiving and caring for these refugees. We must work for a political solution in this conflict, but not more weapons. We must, of course, support our Austrian soldiers, who are at the Golan, who are committed to UNIFIL, from Austria with all necessary equipment, but also in terms of strengthening their backs and thanking them for their commitment, which Austria has brought great recognition to the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4234	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour must not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4259	Madam President. High house! The Socialist Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is also beginning to thank our soldiers for their service in this very dangerous zone. Of course, we agree fully with the acknowledged words of the previous speakers here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At the same time, I also want to contribute to peace in this central area of the Middle East, between Israel and Palestine, also in the sense of the solution of a two-state model and the associated recognition of Palestine by Austrian foreign policy in this way, to a solution that Palestine is also recognised as a state and that these steps are taken within the framework of the UN and UNESCO. That is what we really agree with. I hope that this path, which, as Mr Amon said, is already based on the tradition of the foreign policy of the 1970s, will continue. However, I would like to point out some of the points that seem to me to be of great importance in this context, because if you read in the press today that 60 jihadists from Austria are competing there, my question is: Are they Austrian citizens? Who's that anyway? What are the consequences of the whole? And if the Foreign Minister rightly asks who is actually the opposition there, why the international community does not want to deliver weapons and stick to the arms embargo, that is understandable. One does not want a large part of this opposition, which seems to be Islamists, jihadists and so on, to receive these weapons at all. With all the criticism and rejection of the Assad regime, but that cannot be the alternative. That's why I support it. We have also taken a decision in the National Security Council, indicating that it is for the Engage- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And this would certainly also lead to a new debate and re-evaluation, probably again within the framework of the National Security Council and at any rate here in Parliament and, of course, also in the government. If you really see this so critically, you can't separate it – there's almost cynicism with it –: There are hundreds of thousands and millions of people on the run under most precarious humanitarian conditions. I think we should put this problem at the top of the picture if we make the assessment of the situation in this region, because all that is associated with it, with uprooting, impoverishment, with problematic situations, can also lead to a recruitment field for radical Islamists. And that's something I say, you have to be very sensitive. Not only is a contribution required by the international community of states, but Austria also makes a significant contribution to mitigating the precarious humanitarian situation, but it must come primarily to a solution in this region. But of course this is also due to the relationship between Palestine and Israel, which is the core of this problem in this region. The Israeli government is already calling for an end to the settlement process, because it undermines a two-state solution, and because it is a disaster in the final effect for Israel – perhaps even primarily for Israel. Israel in particular must want this two-state solution if you really want to push for lasting peace. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I also believe that the assessment in this region is important as far as the Arab Spring is concerned, and that Western democracies must do everything – including a contribution to peace in this region – so that this spring really becomes a spring and is developing democratically. If one hears and sees the statements and actions of the Egyptian President – but probably also in other countries – then I must say, above all, respect for the Koran, but in the final effect the Koran will not set in motion apartments, jobs, ice boxes and anything else, but there belongs to a great economic policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] There's a good policy as a whole. This is also a point that needs to be taken into account in this context. To sum up, I think we should all continue this path and make our contribution, because peace in this region also means peace and security for Austria and Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4335	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4356	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today, if we have heard in the news in the early days of the European Union's anti-terrorist commission, which reported that in some 600 young Europeans, we are on our way to Syria to support this struggle of freedom with their Muslim brothers, as we would like to call it, then it should again be a warning to us that it is more important than ever to fulfill our mission, which we have in the context of a UN resolution from 1974 under Article 6. Today, we have the obligation and the task of providing all necessary support to our soldiers – about 380 who are currently at the Golan – from a political point of view, from an ideal point of view, and of course also the best possible material support that we can provide on the part of the Austrian federal army. I believe that today's present hour is a really good occasion to thank our soldiers, especially those who are there professional, competent and still, despite the danger moments, motivated their service – including those who have been doing this service for almost 40 years in the sense of peace-making measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Kanzler – and I would like to express his express thanks to him here – took this step last week by visiting our troops at the Golan. After his return to Austria, there was war immediately again near our troops. In the end, this has also led to the fact that in Austria we need to expressly and permanently review the security situation for our soldiers and discuss it accordingly. I am very grateful to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that you have also done this on the issue of the National Security Council, because it is certainly so that the situation is increasing every day, and that we in Austria are also preparing measures that can be implemented at any time in order to protect and secure our soldiers from the so-called Plan B. We have also explicitly stated in the National Security Council - I can say it because we have removed confidentiality - that this arms embargo should not be lifted. I also agree with Mr Cap's opinion that it cannot be a goal of peace if we are to provide the parties with weapons in addition. In any case, we pay attention to our soldiers, also on the part of the Austrian Federal Army. There is now an additional sanitary tank available, there are six tanks available, which can be used at any time when circumstances allow for the protection of our military. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is important for our soldiers to know that the Republic is doing everything it can to take all measures to protect it. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Kanzler, with this resolution, which we have decided in the Security Council on your initiative, we set a clear sign in the direction of the State community that Austria is ready to continue to secure peace at Golan, but that we do not maintain this peace at all costs and, above all, not under threat to our soldiers. It is therefore important that this resolution has been carried by all – except the FPÖ – as a clear signal towards our soldiers. I thank the soldiers for their efforts in the sense of peace for the Republic of Austria and the world at the Golan. Austria is behind these soldiers and will continue to protect them to the best possible extent. In this sense, I thank you, and I hope that all soldiers can return to their homes in good health.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4420	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4441	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Probably hardly any other world area is as far away from peace as the Middle East. God, I'm sorry! This is a development that we have had to observe in this region for decades, of course since the founding of the State of Israel in 1947. Since then, wars have always taken place and is a dire permanent conflict overlording. There are disputed zones there, whether they are the crisis centres Golan, West Bank or Jerusalem. But there are also problems due to the current development of the Arab Spring, which has always been very heroic, even in the last months, where we have reported heroically about the Arab Spring, which supposedly brings the ach such great democratization. But now we are experiencing reality, not peace development, but radicalization and war development. Unfortunately, there is also a expulsion of disbelief, such as the Christians who are also threatened in these regions, where Christian persecution and expulsion occur. And I miss support from the European Union, but also from the Austrian Federal Government, when it comes to protecting the Christian citizens of this region from such developments. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The situation on the ground has worsened and changed dramatically through the Arab spring, starting from Tunisia, a revolution in Cairo, a revolution in Tripoli, waves of protest in Qatar. There is also a development that concerns us Austrians, but of which I have not heard much today, these are not individual cases: More than 60 jihadists, who are supposed to be in a process in Austria as asylum seekers, have left to go and join this war zone as radical Islamists and terrorists. These are not individual cases, as you might say or say. About a year ago, it was discovered that nine Austrian asylum seekers on the Russian-Georgian border, namely Chechens who were in Austria as asylum seekers and who applied for them, were shot or arrested as fighters, as terrorists, as Islamists, as radicals in the combat suit and with machine guns in combat acts. These are obviously not individual cases, and this also shows the situation in Austria, namely that here people can make clear abuses of the holy right to asylum and radical Islamists recruitment zones and a recruitment base in Austria, because we see here, although the constitutional protection and security authorities have been pointing out for years that there is this development. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This is being played down again and again, one has to say this very critically, because there is a great danger behind it and obviously asylum abuse and asylum fraud are taking place and one is not prepared to stop it. Indeed, the Government in Damascus - historically - has repeatedly tried to influence the domestic policy conditions of its neighbor Lebanon, partly by supporting radical forces in Lebanon, in order to achieve destabilisation in this region as well. It must already be stressed that these radicalization processes in this region unfortunately have also led God to the fact that Lebanon, once regarded as the Switzerland of the Middle East, is today a country of chaos and unrest. Austria has a tradition, a good and positive tradition: the position of the neutral mediator. I would like you to finally relive this tradition of neutral mediator. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, this Federal Government is far too passive and too defensive on this issue in many areas of God. I'd like to see more commitment. Of course, it is important to communicate, even between Israel and the Palestinians. Of course, it is important to note that Israel's right of defence, self-determination and existence cannot be questioned. Of course, it is important to get involved. Thus I also had the honour of having been invited to Israel as a small mini-bar recently and to conduct negotiations and talks with Israeli representatives, but also with Palestinian representatives in Hebron. There is the possibility of peace in this region, but it also requires support from the international community and a stronger contribution from the international community. Therefore, at the end of my remarks, of course, I will also speak to our UN soldiers. Yes, our Austrian UN soldiers do great things in this region, but their mission is to operate peacekeeping in a demilitarized zone. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] However, we no longer have to deal with a demilitarized zone. There's war! And this zone has long since ceased to demilitarized. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It is no longer a matter of peacekeeping, these soldiers are in the midst of a war zone of different war parties. It is therefore irresponsible to continue to leave our Austrian soldiers on the spot and to ignore that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thank you and respect for our UN soldiers, we should finally ensure their security and bring them back to Austria. This is our security policy approach.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4553	Next, Mr Pilz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4575	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If the Freedom Party abuses this important debate on global security in the example of Syria and the Golan as an asylum-seekers' debate, then I say only two sentences first: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsböck]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We don't have to be the same as everyone else!]] There is a single party throughout the European Union that has close friendly relations with the terrorist regime in Chechnya, which has even committed murders in Vienna. This party is the Freedom Party of Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. You think the Chechen terrorists from Boston, don't you?]] Secondly, The Arab Spring had a direct impact on Austrian party financing: With Saddam Hussein and Muammar al-Gaddafi, the Freedom Party has lost two of its most important financiers. [[Abg. Street: The Gaddafi has sponsored the Greens! That's the only proof!]] - That's what I'm talking about. But now, Dr. Spindelegger, the real problem, because fortunately, the Freedom Party is no longer the main problem even of the Republic of Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Mr Spindelegger, I ask you to finally answer a question clearly: Did you make it clear within the framework of the European Union that if the European Union's arms embargo expires at the end of May and is not being extended and the US, Great Britain, France and other heavy weapons supply to Syria's civil war parties are no longer able to continue Austrian participation in the UNDOF mandate on the Golan? Have you made it clear to your interlocutors in Brussels, together with the Chancellor, that, if this embargo falls, with the embargo also the UNDOF mandate falls and thus the oldest peacekeeping mandate of the United Nations? Only if you make this clear in Brussels and if you say: There is an Austrian junkim here: The end of the arms embargo is the end of the UNDOF mandate!, we still have a small chance to convince our partners in the European Union that this embargo may be extended and continued. If you do not give up on this statement today, then you will give up the political struggle for this embargo in public. Lip confessions are useless. I share with you the concern for our soldiers at the Golan, those 377 Austrians who carry out an important mandate every day under ever more dangerous conditions. Only, you know just as well as I do, there's no plan in the Department of Defence, how we might be able to get our troops home at the beginning of June if we have to get them home. This mandate is under threat and will probably no longer be able to be maintained. And if you seriously mean it with the security of our 377 soldiers at the Golan, then it must already be this plan today and then the Austrian ultimatum must be in Brussels, because otherwise even the personal security of these 377 soldiers is at risk. Imagine, in the villages in the UNDOF zone, there are already military acts, currently with light weapons, because the insurgents do not have heavy weapons. In the moment that the United States, Great Britain and France deliver, the war with heavy weapons is also escalating in the UNDOF area on the Israeli-Syrian border. Syria even refuses to import this one rescue crew you mentioned – it is still not in our quota because the Syrians do not let it in. The resuscitation is blocked. Our soldiers at the Golan are partly cut off from the resuscitation. And there is still a healing world and is still being pretended to be responsible for this mandate? That is why, Mr Spindelegger, we need clear words here in Parliament. We are facing the failure of international Middle East policy. We're in front of a shredded pile in Libya. In the near future, we are likely to be faced with an even more dangerous pile in Syria. The West continues to support dictatorial regimes such as Saudi Arabia. The West continues to abandon real democratic movements like Bahrain and cover the United States, Great Britain and also France Saudi intervention forces against democratic citizen movements in the Gulf States. And in Syria and Libya it is not about democracy, unfortunately it is not about human rights, but about international spheres of influence. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That's where we need an Austrian policy, which says openly: We need a major political turnaround in Brussels! And we need a foreign minister who finally addresses this openly and courageously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4662	Mr Pilz, I shall come to the Stenographical Protocol to make your introductory remarks. to read and check to what extent you have violated our principles regarding calls of order; I will decide later. The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4691	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful for this debate, but would also like to have a statement by you, Mr Foreign Minister, especially for the reasons of the Rules of Procedure, because then we could have debated even more intensively and put forward common proposals so that we could really give more weight to the vote of this House on this important foreign policy issue. But that can still follow. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At any rate, it is good and right that Austria is finally away from this mainstream of the last two years, which has presented the so-called Arab Spring as a healing and happiness for this region, exclusively. I remember very well how I had critically raised my voice here two years ago. At that time I was exposed to the accusation that I would support the dictators in Libya and Syria. But today it is clearly clear that the revolutions were organized from the outside that they did not come into existence in Tripoli, not in Cairo, but in London, Paris, Washington and Ankara, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In none of these countries, people – it has always been suggested that people in these countries – are better today than before. And this should at last be done as a small country within the European Union, because there is a great deal of disaster from there to position it accordingly to deal with these conflicts. I would particularly like to deal with Syria, because I have known this country for 20 years, I have many acquaintances in Syria and outside Syria, and it is particularly sad what has been done by these external interventions with people in that country. This country was a dictatorship, of course, there were human rights violations, there was no freedom of the press – but this is probably a situation to be criticized throughout the region. But there was security at the time, including stability at the borders with Israel. That is why Israel is not very excited about this situation. There was a freedom of the religions – and that was a bit too short today. Look You are facing the present situation of the Copts after the revolution in Egypt! See the fear of the 3 million Christians in Syria who do not know what will happen to them in the next few years! And here in Europe it is surprising that the Christians are not part of the revolutionary movement, whose first goal is to expel these 3 million Christians from Syria. I really wonder in which country and on which continent we live. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] The freedom of the religions is now at risk, as is the widespread equality of genders in Syria, the example of some other countries, and also the internal security and attempt to improve the economic situation, as there were many good initiatives, and also the attempt to open the country step by step, but there were, of course, also resistances of the radical forces in Syria. I have said this again and again: This was also the case because of the global interests of America, especially the government of Bush, who had to construct the axis of evil or wanted to and involved Syria, and the Reform movement in Syria suggested the bar, because at that time the Baath party also wished to open the country to the West. Unfortunately, I have not heard much about the European Union, not much of Austria. It has also supported the radical forces there. But now there is a black and white painting. A constructed public work was done on glues, where every atrocities that happened in Syria was automatically attributed to the Assad regime. There are enough things that have happened to be criticized, but with every grudge, even though it has been staged by the rebels – we have the reports – immediately one-sidedly titulated, and it has been put up as an atrocity of the Assad regime and used as an argument to support the rebels even more. The weapons are delivered anyway, keep an indirect eye on Islamic states – they have already been addressed today – which have clear interests there, the secular Syria has always been a thorn in mind, which, of course, supports these Islamic movements. And America, Great Britain and France are, of course, already supporting the activities of the rebels there through the detour over these countries. If you don't get it, you can get it, but you can buy it that half of these weapons are then used in Mali, for example, where weapons delivered for the rebels in the fight against Gaddafi have been used against the French? So you know, but you do. Ladies and gentlemen! The only chance that Syria will have in the future – and that would be an initiative that Austria and the European Union could put in place – is the reasonable forces in the regime, in the Baath Party, and that there is to promote and bring the reasonable forces of the inner Syrian opposition to a table, absolute ban on arms, absolute ban on violence, and to try, if it is still possible, to strengthen this plant a chance for a peaceful solution in this region in Syria. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That's the only way. At any rate, however, a bar is still to be put forward by major powers who, under the guise of human rights, only care for their own interests and often cause suffering in Syria and in this region.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4783	Mr Hagen has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4804	Madam President. Foreign Minister! High house! It can already be said that this Arab spring has become the Arctic winter, at the beginning it is high, and now a sobering balance sheet. Ladies and gentlemen! A toothless EU Security Council, to which Mr Foreign Minister also belongs, wanted to improve here. – I don’t think the solution is arms supplies to Syria or anywhere. On the other hand, there is no doubt that this is the case. I would like to start with Tunisia, where this Arab spring has begun, and to highlight the situation today. If we look at this, we can see that the media reports in this area were numerous: Tunisian Salafists stormed a residence for female students, a dance and music event was violently ended. Political chaos is on the agenda. Extremists are on the move. Ladies and gentlemen! Is this the Arab spring we wanted and supported by the West? - I don't think so! And you should take Argusaugen to see what's going on there. Two years after the expulsion of the dictator in Tunisia, there are further unrest. The Islamic conservatives are in progress, suppressing everything, and their influence is constantly going up, which is extremely disturbing for the situation. – I don't have to say that anymore, as I believe. Egypt theme: I would like to put a few figures in the foreground to show what this so-called revolution has brought. Economic growth in Egypt has declined by 5 percent compared with Mubarak’s times. Unemployment rose from 9 to 12 percent. Women have particularly poor opportunities in the labour market. A third of the Egyptian population is impoverished. Only inflation has fallen because it is artificially low. Public debt increases because raw materials have to be bought expensive on the world market. Egypt currently holds 9th place with 101 percent debt measured by GDP. I think Mr. Mursi is trying to build a state of God, and we see the consequences: There is revolution fever on the Tahrir Square again, and the efforts in this area are brutally crushed. Besides the heads, the system in Egypt has not changed much. It has become only and alone insecure. Christians are now being persecuted there, you know. My question, Mr Foreign Minister: What are you doing about it? We have already asked you here in Parliament to act accordingly. However, I have not heard much. Unfortunately, there has not been a lot of positive results. Let me come to talk to Syria: If Mr. Pilz – who now shines with absence again, ah, now he comes back! – Here goes and says that the events in Syria around these 60 wares of God, asylum seekers from Austria, are just a “leacherscha” then I would like to stress that I see this a little differently, Mr Pilz! [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: I didn't lose a word about it!]] You must be aware once: These people come here under the pretext of being persecuted politically or religiously in their home country, take advantage of the hospitality of Austrian citizens, are fed here by Austrian taxpayers, and then they go to Syria and there lead a God war, a Holy War. – Mr Pilz! Do you have tomatoes not only on your eyes, but also on your hens? I think what you want to make clear to us here is the wrong way! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] These people are financed at the expense of taxpayers. If an Austrian citizen joins a foreign military power, then Austrian citizenship will be deprived of him. Minister! Now I ask you: Were these Czech or Pakistani asylum seekers – or wherever they come from – now working in Syria now rejected in the asylum process? Are their families still in Austria? – In this context, there are many questions you need to clarify. I have pointed out several times to the Minister for the Interior, who is from your Committee on the Interior, that it is known that Czech asylum seekers often seek asylum in Austria and then go back to their home country to fight while their families are being fed through here. - You promised me you'd go after this. But to this day I haven't heard anything. Nothing has changed on the subject. I've only been promised to be informed, but nothing has been done so far. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] The Austrians, who come here for these people who have to pay their taxes for these people, should once know what happens to their money. I think we are investing the money better for the Austrians. There are many women here who are single parents and have problems financially. There the money would be better invested.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4862	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4883	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard that since 1974 the Austrian Federal Army has been monitoring the ceasefire between Syria and Israel, thereby making an invaluable contribution to de-escalation in the Middle East conflict so significant for global security. For this high-quality peace work, I would also like to thank the soldiers very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this important contribution to the so-called UNDOF mission, two important principles of Austrian foreign policy can be identified: firstly, the strengthening of the international community as an actable player in international peacekeeping and, secondly, the peaceful resolution of the Middle East conflict, which means strengthening both the security of the State of Israel and the legitimate interests and rights of the Arab partners. Therefore, it should also be out of question that Austria continues to make its contribution, provided that the mission can still complete its mandate and the security of the soldiers allows this to happen. For Austria, therefore, it is of particular importance that the EU arms embargo is maintained. It would risk the security of our soldiers massively if the European Union in Syria were suddenly perceived as an active arms supplier to the rebels. However, the removal of the arms embargo does not make sense for further reasons. We will not be able to end a conflict, in which there are too many weapons now, by providing additional weapons there. Moreover, we do not know in whose hands these weapons actually come. Instead of arguing about the maintenance or abolition of the arms embargo, we as the EU should be more concerned about humanitarian and civil crisis aid. Both in Syria and in refugee camps, people lack the most basic things because of the conflict that has persisted for two years: They lack drugs, they lack food and accommodation, they lack electricity, water and the like. A million Syrians are now fleeing, and many of them have been accommodated in refugee camps in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. These countries have so far shown great willingness to help, but they have long since reached their borders because of the enormous numbers of refugees. In the course of a European Council mission to Jordan and Palestine, we were able to convince ourselves of this – a group of 18 delegates from 15 nations – on site. It's called Jordan is a small country with a big heart. And it was also assured us that despite these huge flows of refugees, the borders would not be closed, one does not think about closing the borders. In 2013, for example, 2,000 to 2,500 refugees came across the border every day, mostly within very short periods of time in the early twilight hours. Most of them were children, women, injured. These masses are hardly any longer to be dealt with. I would like to address another problem: As in most conflict regions, women are among the main sufferers in this area, for example if there is no protection against sexual assaults or women have no access to women-specific health care. In this sense, the European Union and its Member States could make a real useful contribution to reducing the suffering of Syrians and Syrians. It is very welcome that Austria has now released € 2 million from the foreign disaster fund to support the refugees. But in view of the funds needed – experts or NGOs speak of up to €20 million a year – only a common European and international approach can really help. I would therefore ask the Government, at European and international level, to push the focus away from arms exports and towards joint measures of civil and crisis aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4937	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e4959	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Pilz, who, after his speech now is not here again, obviously has a very selective perception of the work of our Foreign Minister. I believe that our Foreign Minister is very offensively on the road in this conflict between Syria and the Middle East, and I would like to make it clear that, for example, in Dublin, he has referred very well to the threat posed by Syria. I would also like to point out quite clearly that in the National Security Council, where Mr Vice-Chancellor has reported on the situation in Lebanon and Syria, there has been a decision that addresses exactly what Mr Pilz criticises, namely that both a withdrawal and a relaxation of the EU arms embargo against Syria must continue to be strictly rejected. In addition, EU Member States should again draw attention to the possible consequences of the withdrawal or non-renewal of Austrian participation in the mission. – So what more do you want, colleague Pilz? All that you demand has been decided here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It may also be pointed out that it was Foreign Minister Spindelegger, who visited the soldiers at the Golan Heights, strongly expressed to them the appreciation of Austria and its personal appreciation and also made it clear there: We stay as long as we can, and we do everything we need to stay as long as possible, because we are aware of the importance of this mission. But we are also careful to ensure that, if it is no longer possible, the security of Austrian soldiers is guaranteed. - That's what I'm talking about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To Syria conflict: Of course, we do not know how long this conflict will last. We do not believe that arms supplies in this case are an essential source of sales. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In this context, it is quite simply important to help where we can help to help refugees. I should like to repeat once again the number mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Since the beginning of the crisis, Austria has provided €4 million in cash and property benefits. At the beginning of April, another two million were decided to be applied by the Caritas and UNHCR, the UN refugee movement. I believe that these are simply essential things, and in this respect, as has already been mentioned, we need, of course, to support the neighbouring countries in particular. If you think only of the small Lebanon, which has just the size of Upper Austria, but even has a population of 4 million people and then has to take up a refugee number of half a million people, then you can't appreciate that at all. With this in mind, you can imagine how difficult this is and that this small country simply needs our support. But with his visit, Foreign Minister Spindelegger has also expressed clearly how much we want to express our appreciation there. However, I would like to address another issue, namely the situation of Christian minorities in the Middle East and the Middle East. Especially the Christians in Syria, Iraq, but also the Coptic Christians in Egypt are heavily affected and are subjected to repression. This is also the reason why Christians in large numbers leave these countries. And it really does not matter, and it is rather paradoxical that the security of the Christian minority was apparently better guaranteed under the dictatorial predecessor regimes. Therefore, it must be remembered that the Arab Spring cannot lead some groups to believe that they can live out freedom in a way that they want. It must be made clear – and this is made clear again and again – that the tolerance to the dissidents and disbeliefs is the kitt of every society and every living together. I think that is exactly what we have to remind ourselves in this situation. Finally, I would like to point out that it is of course important that all these people in this region and in these countries also need perspectives, especially an economic perspective so that they can live in peace and freedom. We are, of course, invited to contribute to this through economic cooperation and development partnership. We do this, for example, in the Palestinian territories with an annual contribution of € 4 to 5 million, but also in many other areas. – I believe that this is the essential point for future development towards peace and freedom in this region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5029	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5056	Mr Pilz has just talked to me about Upper Chechen. – I understand that asylum is particularly unpleasant for the Greens. This is an absolute taboo you can't attack. If, for example, there is some way that 4,000 to 5,000 Czech asylum seekers of the 40 000 who exist in us go home once a year on vacation and no consequences are made for reports by the Ministry of the Interior that land in the drawer, because they do not want to hear and say this politically correctly, then I understand, of course, that this issue is immediately linked to terms such as ‘abuse’, ‘hetze’ and so on in the greens and, above all, by colleagues Pilz. – But I think the audience and the election audience can take a picture of who really wants to discuss things, who shows abuses and who has three to four deadwords ready to prevent discussions about abuses. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now go back to the Middle East and Syria. We have heard a great deal of words about this from Mr Amon, from Mr Muttonen, from Mr Foreign Minister and from colleagues before me. We have heard all about the importance of this mission, peacekeeping is being carried out, a contribution to maintaining peace is being made, there is a common European and international approach, Austria must remain present in order to make its contribution to peacekeeping. – I don't understand: Has anyone listened to the Foreign Minister's report? The Foreign Minister himself has told us: This mission was then launched to keep Israel and the Syrian army separate and to create a demilitarized zone. He told us that there is no longer this demilitarized zone and the potential conflict between Israel and the Syrian army, but that there is a civil war in Syria and fighting in the demilitarized zone around the UNDOF bases. We have heard this today, we have heard it in the National Security Council, we read it in the media and we can see that if we want more information, special forums on the Internet, which contain details about the Syrian Civil War. That's it. Let's take a look at what we've done: The respective missions, UNIFIL in southern Lebanon and UNDOF in Syria, have been in existence for 39 years, costing between € 100 million and € 130 million each year. If you multiply both amounts by 39, you can calculate about what cost we're talking about. [[Abg. Clickovits: Do you want to pull off our soldiers?]] You can talk again! I will come to a conclusion, Mr Maij-Wegzovits. – That’s the cost one day. But that's not useful at all. Peace was not created there. A separation of the troops has not been possible. The best example is UNIFIL. It has also been there for over 30 years, and three wars have been fought over UNIFIL. If the conflict parties want to wage wars, they will lead them whether someone is sitting or not. Once again, this is a fundamental problem for the mission. But this is not the question today, because this mission, as the Foreign Minister himself said, is history. We are now in a civil war without having a mandate to do anything and without being able to do anything. And we call the whole thing a contribution to ensuring peace for the sake of sand, and for the sake of confusion to the public. The only thing we do there is to contribute to the danger of the soldiers sitting there completely pointlessly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The extent of this tragedy is indeed enormous. Thankfully, the Foreign Minister has also made this clear. There are 9 million people who can no longer feed themselves. A million – I have already heard figures that go up to 1.2 million – have fled abroad. The economy has completely collapsed. We have deaths there, which are between 150 and 250 per day. The government is using heavy weapons, mid-range missiles, combat aircraft against cities. The entire district was destroyed by Scud missiles, and so on and so on. And what alternative do we have in foreign policy? So we really have to quote the Foreign Minister here almost literally. It is important to maintain the arms embargo. We must say that the rebels must not get weapons, because the Foreign Minister thinks I do not want any dangerous weapons in the hands of the opposition. Maybe he wants air pressure guns or stone slings. I don't know what safe weapons are in the hands of the opposition. Maybe he wants to disarm the opposition again. Well, if you want the victory of the regime, if you say Assad and the Baath regime have to stay, then I say, is okay, then I don't want any weapons in the hands of the opposition either. But if I say there has to be a change there, then it is a very, say once, dishonest position to claim I don't want any dangerous weapons in the hand of one side. The other side has these weapons. We should not, and must not be, committed to lifting the embargo, nor should we support anything in terms of arms supplies, but we also need not here to take the party and be spokespersons of those who want to see the opposition as weaponless as possible or only with stone slings and other non-violent weapons. The second – and I come to an end with that – is the peace process. What have we done for the peace process in the last two years, please? - Nothing! There are no approaches, nothing at all. If one claims that the peace process at the round table is the topic and not abductions, then I must say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Clickovits]] No, no, no, no, But where is our performance? Where's our contribution? That is why we say that this mandate is pointless. A foreign policy, as we did in the 1970s, would be necessary. That would be really necessary, but we don't even see it in approaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5113	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5134	Madam President. High house! Dear spectators! Perhaps a word about the Chechen story, Mr Hagen, Mr Hübner, you obviously already have absurd fungus appearances or have not listened exactly to what it is about, or have not read the newspapers exactly today. Yeah, there are bad things in the room. But it's not proven. Constitutional protection. And as long as constitutional protection is concerned, we will not talk about whether the asylum seekers are using their situation or not, but we will perhaps listen to it in Parliament and protect the Constitution – no, the discussion is not prohibited. [[Abg. Strache: So discussion ban of the Greens!]] But a serious discussion about it is desirable. However, you are unfortunately not capable of this serious discussion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would remind you that exactly you, Mr Hübner, and your colleagues were visiting the top terrorists in Chechnya, namely Mr Kadyrow. That's why the statement was made that you're the Upper Chechen friend. That means maybe you can give us information about what's going on and why Chechens are going to Syria from Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] You'll probably know better. Otherwise this is very strange and your visit to Chechnya is still highly questionable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the current situation: Mr Spindelegger, you have referred to it, Mr Pilz's suggestion was primarily that it is damn fast and time and that something has to happen quickly with regard to the question of the embargo. It will end at the end of May, so it's only a little more time. That is to say, it is essential to extend it in Brussels. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Spindelegger.]] - Yes, yes!, you say. That's your role in working for it and negotiating in a massive way, because you know what consequences this has for our soldiers at the Golan. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Spindelegger: Read newspapers!]] I read the newspapers very intensively and I also observe very carefully what you do or don't do. And I have the impression that you're not doing enough. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's high time no, I don't have a selective perception. [[Abg. Clickovits: This is a very selective perception!]] But it is about the delicate situation of our soldiers at the Golan – and the Minister has already mentioned this. And it's about peacekeeping or not. But once weapons are transported and sold to Syria, our soldiers, we all know, are extremely endangered. That is to say, it is at the highest level of time, indeed urgently, that this situation is being discussed openly. And I miss this openness. I have the feeling that this will be beautiful, it will not be talked openly about. [[Mr Amon and Mr Maij-Weggen.]] Yes, I listened very well. No clear text has been spoken. Nowhere has it been said that the embargo expires at the end of May – at the end of May, that is in one and a half months. One and a half months are very little time to clarify the situation of our soldiers on the Golan. Please make it clear! It's very urgent, it's high time. You, Mr Amon, have addressed the situation as a whole and the mediating role of our Foreign Minister. They have also said that Austria is almost in a tradition in this regard. – I recognize this tradition. But at the moment I lack the continuation of this tradition, I have to say quite honestly. Kreisky – you mentioned the 1970s – has played a huge role in the media, especially in the Middle East. But I miss this middle role. I'd have some questions. I place extreme restraint with you, Mr Minister, on many issues concerning developments in Arab spring. I'd like to know where your engagement in Egypt was. Where is your intermediary position, for example, with regard to the constitutional process in Tunisia? What have you done with Libya since you visited Libya with representatives of the OMV? What happened? It's not reported. Maybe you'll give your big PR budget the wrong way. At least we didn't get the information about what your role was in this regard. [[Abg. Head: “Great PR budget”?]] - Yeah, there's a big PR budget. We have been discussing this last year, and we will discuss it this year too. This even exceeds the level of humanitarian aid from the foreign disaster fund that has flown to Syria. The budget made available by the Minister for Press Relations is higher than that for humanitarian aid. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is therefore important to me that you address the situation very openly at the Golan – but that is something – that it is – yes, I still use this time to call on the Minister to speak very clearly about how delicate the situation at the Golan is, how short the time is, and how fast you need to clarify the situation and the embargo. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Clickovits]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Clickovits.]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5272	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5293	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a final speaker, I may well have thought that this debate was very, very important, and that I also very much welcome the recent commitment of the Foreign Minister in this regard. However, I would also like to say that I do not hope that some people are so suspicious that this foreign policy initiative is a flame of external policy, whose true background is the forthcoming National Council election in a few months, ladies and gentlemen, according to the motto of Mr Spindelegger: When I'm a fly weight internally, I'm trying to gain political profile in foreign policy. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I should like to appeal to the ÖVP not to misuse foreign policy for its own election campaign, and I would like to have said this deliberately today, months before the election. [[OBJECTIVES]] And this suspicion is not entirely unfounded, because if I see Mr Spindelegger's commitment throughout his time as a foreign minister and also the commitment of the other red and black foreign ministers of recent years, especially in the Middle East, then I must say that this commitment has been very passive and has also been extremely modest. [[Abg. Clickovits: There you see how you think!]] It also helps very little to refer to the historical Austrian tradition in the 1970s or 1980s, colleague Cap. With a reference to the 1970s and 1980s, one cannot win the future, neither in Austria nor in the Middle East, ladies and gentlemen, but it is about taking the right steps now. [[OBJECTIVES]] I can already say that, especially as regards the Arab Spring and the events in these countries, whether Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Yemen or now Syria, the government parties and also the other political groups have always behaved wrong, namely, those who rejoiced and said that the great freedom movement is coming there, now the great democracy movement is coming there, now the great movement of human rights is coming. If we look today at what has become of this Arab spring, we see that all these expectations have not met and only a single political attitude of a single political group in this House, namely the foreign policy attitude of the BZÖ. We were the only ones who always warned about it and said that this Arab spring is not the yellow of the egg. But we have been smiled and very strongly criticized. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That is why we need to remind ourselves today. Another example, the Iraq campaign. You were the ones who praised the American, rejoiced and meant that now the great liberation action will come in Iraq. You were the ones who believed the U.S. lie propaganda we know today that everything didn't agree. We were the only ones who warned about it at the time and meant that this would not work, from the outside, to ensure war with orderly and peaceful states in Iraq. We were the only ones and were strongly criticized and even suspected at the time. If we look at the situation in Iraq today, the conditions there, where the oil is now flowing and who is doing the big business down there, then the example of Iraq, like many others, shows that even on this issue the attitude of the BZÖ and, finally, the attitude of the BZÖ – I can say at this point too – was the right attitude, and unfortunately God confirmed what we warned of. That is why I expressly welcome the fact that it is at least now possible to have learned from these mistakes, and now at least the Austrian position in Syria is another, because – and the examples I have mentioned – Iraq, Libya and others can only show this – it can only come to peaceful conditions and an orderly transition process in Syria if it succeeds to form a common transitional government from the political forces ruling there. Any other means will fail. This has also been shown by the above examples. I would like to conclude by saying that not only is Austria taking a clear stance here, but the European Union is also taking a clear stance. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you the question: Where is the common foreign and security policy of the European Union? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Where is the common, united Europe that speaks with one voice? – It exists only on paper and is simply not existing! In fact, the UK and France represent their own interests together with America and others. This example shows once again how bad the European Union is in this context too. What does actually do? Catherine Ashton all the time? This would actually be responsible, but their commitment is nowhere at all to be seen. Therefore, Mr Foreign Minister, I would ask you to ensure that more is done in the European Union towards a common initiative. For us – at the end of the day it was made clear – the BZÖ is that the protection of our soldiers is our first priority. Finally, as the last speaker on this point, I would like to thank all those who are in service there very much for their commitment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5367	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:34:56]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5388	We are now going into the debate on the objections to the agenda requested by Members of the Bookers. I'll stick to the rule once again: A maximum of 5 minutes of speaking time, a maximum of three words per group. Mr Klubobmann Bucher spoke at the outset. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5415	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let us come from Syria to an issue that we hope will be able to solve faster, hopefully more efficient and effective, but above all here in this House, namely that in the future tax money on pump should no longer be speculated. With great horror and great misunderstanding, Salzburg's population, even now all of Austria, is pursuing that it is not able to reach agreement here in the House that speculation with taxpayers will be prohibited in the future. No one understands this, neither in Salzburg nor in the rest of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The least know that for 40 years now, precisely since 1974, it has been negotiated on the basis of the Holy Blood Agreement, to bring together and establish on a uniform basis the budget structure, the accounting system of all nine federal states. For 40 years, it has been thought about and found to create a uniform accounting system for all countries. No one understands. Especially now, due to the circumstances that have happened at the federal level, with the Federal Finance Agency, but also the terrible speculation losses in Salzburg, which have still not been clarified, a time window has been created, where we could use the scope for action to finally end after 40 years of effortless negotiations and to ban speculation with taxpayers once and for all. After 40 years, ladies and gentlemen, it is now up to us to finally resolve this one crack, namely the breach of uniform household law for all countries, all municipalities and all cities in our country Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If this new budgetary law – and we have all jointly decided on this new budgetary law – is so unique, so unique, even at European level about the green clover, then I wonder why it does not apply in individual federal states of Austria. No one understands! If the individual federal states do not want to implement it must have a serious reason. The only reason can be that one wants to make it as difficult for the Court of Auditors to keep an eye on one's own accounting and to look at one's own budget in some way or another. Only that can be the reason and explanation for why nothing goes on in this area. How is it responsible for many who sit here that shadow budgets in the federal states are still tolerated? How is it responsible for you that 380 distributed companies of the countries, the municipalities and the federal government can continue to speculate on taxpayers or do something with their budget without receiving clear guidelines from the Federal Government? For many countries, there is still no clear definition of what debt is or what assets are. There are still no clear rules, even today, which transactions are speculation transactions, which may or may need to be omitted in order to ensure proper budgeting and handling of tax funds. Ladies and gentlemen! We are always so proud of the Court of Auditors, which is an institution of the National Council and is praised by all sides. If it is so, ladies and gentlemen, that he does such good work, then support our initiative to strengthen the Court of Auditors, then give him the opportunity to examine all that is to be examined! [[OBJECTIVES]] But one should not put the blame on the Court of Auditors afterwards and say that it did not properly examine it in Salzburg. He could not test with all the criminal energy that seemed to be behind it to hide and hide things. Our interest here must be to equip our own body with all possibilities and resources so that something like this can no longer happen in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5479	Mr Krainer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5502	Madam President. Mr Bucher, you yourself said that the occasion for this whole debate is Salzburg. – But it must be said that Salzburg is not the first case of speculation in Austria, but rather a long list of speculations on the part of the public sector, whether the Lower Austria, Tyrol or also the federal level. [[Abg. Bucher: Even worse!]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: Vienna!]] At the federal level alone, € 350 million was lost. But there are already considerable differences between what happened in Salzburg in speculation and what happened at the federal level, for example. There are a number of parallels, but also some substantial differences. The three main differences I see are first: There have been political consequences. This means that the responsible Council of State has resigned and has assumed political responsibility. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The second big difference is that there is complete transparency and enlightenment. That means that everything has been put on the table, every business has been put on the table, and it has been set out for the public and also for all other parties, what has happened. So second big difference: Transparency and Enlightenment! The third big difference is: In contrast to the federal level, where more than €300 million have been lost under the line, no money has been lost in Salzburg to this day, but a plus. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] These are, of course, three major differences in comparison to a number of other scandals or speculations that have existed. Unfortunately, the fourth big difference does not yet occur. The fourth big difference would be that there is the consequence that there is a ban on speculation in the Constitution – something the SPÖ called for in 2010 after the OeBFA scandals. Unfortunately, at that time no other party felt that we should do this here in the House, but now everyone is saying that they want it. Nevertheless, we have not been able to decide for several months. Of course, the question is slowly: Why? Is that perhaps only because of lost country elections? I thought, okay, there's a group that has to lick her wounds because she's lost so bad in Lower Austria and Carinthia. In the meantime, I almost believe that it is a matter of not allowing the success of the Salzburg election to occur, that there is a consequence at the federal level, so that not individual parties can beat out of it almost before the Salzburg election or when the election is over, and not to have the success that there is also the fourth in addition to the three differences mentioned, namely that a ban on speculation comes into the Constitution. I can only say: In the past, the Social Democrats have not failed, and other parties here in the House – we need at least three parties – have failed to reach agreement. We need three parties for the two-thirds majority. It has not failed us, and it will not fail us in the future. What is available – says the Court of Auditors itself – is something he would like. [[Abg. Booker: You should have said that out loud!]] He doesn't understand why other parties don't decide. We are in favour, but there is obviously a two-thirds majority in favour because neither the Greens nor the FPÖ are prepared to decide on what the Court of Auditors also wants and whatever the Court of Auditors supports. I hope that after the Salzburg elections, at least there will be no more excuses for the opposition parties to write this speculation ban into the Constitution, for one thing must already be clear to us: More important than any country-day election or small party-political advantage, it must be true that speculation is being observed throughout Austria according to the same rules and - because this is also the case - that all local authorities lead their accounting systems according to the same criteria. This is something that the ÖVP and we, the SPÖ, have presented, but it is only – although the Court of Auditors say exactly – that it does not want what is in it to be the required majority. I hope that after the country elections in Tyrol and Salzburg, the opposition parties are finally ready to go this important way with us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5580	Mr Podgorschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5602	Madam President. I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Detlef Wimmer, on the subject which has been discussed, on a second assignment of Linz under the leadership of Mr Detlef Wimmer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We could have been able to save ourselves from this debate today, if we had referred this whole issue back to the committee about four weeks ago and discussed it in a reasonable way. We've lost more or less a month. Mr Dummful, you can remember that two weeks ago we debated here in the House on the “60 MINIMUMS.POLITICS” programme, and we have come to the conclusion that we already agree in many ways, so there is an agreement that there are basically only a few points to be clarified. Unfortunately, we are now standing right where we were standing four weeks ago, and I am afraid it will be so again in four weeks if we do not debate it again in committee. In my view, it is necessary to divide this issue into two parts. There are two priorities to be addressed. On the one hand – and Mr Bucher is quite right on the other – it has been tried for 40 years to introduce a uniform accounting system in Austria, on the other hand, nothing has happened for 40 years, unfortunately it has failed again and again in resistance to some of the countries. In fact, we are already of the opinion that this could be decided immediately, because, in our view, the single accounting system is the environment and the environment. One can only prevent speculation if one also has insight into the books, what happens in the countries, communities at the end of the day. And that's exactly the jumping point! But that doesn't happen. Even if you are planning an Article 15a agreement with the countries, I am firmly convinced that it will be watered down in such a way that nothing positive can be achieved. At § 17, the actual ban on speculation, there are simply differences in formulation. We have commissioned specialists to submit a formulation that makes the whole water resistant. I said quite clearly in the TV broadcast mentioned earlier: The experience from the past shows us again and again: If we have helped the government to achieve a two-thirds majority, then it has been relatively fast in the sand. I refer here once again to the experience of minority rights in the so-called Committee of Inquiry – we have not yet received the promised rights! Therefore, we fear that if we issue you more or less a blank check, the guidelines of the Austrian Federal Finance Agency, which are to be observed accordingly, will then be watered down again. We do not know what the government constellation will be like in the next period. We may then be faced with a shredding heap and have to watch as in some countries, communities are speculated. It is precisely these speculations that we should prevent, that we must make waterproof. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, appeal to you: Let us put this item on the agenda today and – and I am even making a proposal to you now so that you can see that the opposition is also thinking about how our state is taking a positive step forward – we decide on those points in which we already agree! We decide § 16 to create a uniform accounting system! What the speculation ban is, we still have until the summer and, if it has to be, until after the summer time. We can decide the last one in September too. Then the new government, whoever is then in the government, has to comply with the requirements so that speculations in Austria are no longer possible once and for all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's up to you whether you're in there or not. I can only present this proposal to you now. It is relatively easy made, you only need to decide § 16; the text is already available. In this way, we would fulfil an essential point and, above all, the requirement that, after 40 years, a uniform accounting system would finally be introduced in Austria, that the Court of Auditors would really be able to review everyone and that it would be possible to compare the various legislative bodies, because only then could speculation really be prevented.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5678	Mr Dr. Stummvoll is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5699	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I say quite openly at the beginning: I consider this today's objection debate – not by chance in television time – to be an incredibly cheap political maneuver! [[Abg. Scheibner: Is no longer a television time!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Please correct this! No television time!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Why? – Because everyone here knows that the ban on speculation will definitely be decided before the summer. The only question is: Will it be a constitutional law or a simple law? I am opposed to saying that there is nothing worth a simple law. [[Abg. Bucher: What do you want?]] We are constantly adopting laws that are so-called simple laws, but, Mr Klubobmann Bucher, of course I have a human understanding that the smallest group in this House, which is constantly leaving mandates, is doing everything to get into the scene. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is no question, for which I have human understanding, ladies and gentlemen, but from the point of view this is absolutely unjust! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Let's take a look at this! When the Salzburg financial scandal became known, the Minister of Finance immediately responded. We have for weeks had a signed agreement between the Federal Government and the Länder, the Federal Government and the Municipal Government, which lays down the ban on speculation. We held political talks in Parliament with the President of the Court of Auditors, who were very constructive. We have added the government template to the first one: no credit for investment, second: no derivative transactions without basic business. So at the parliamentary level, we have added what has been made up of the federal, state and local authorities. Then there was the point of uniform accounting. This is, of course, a very delicate question. I say quite openly: We from the ÖVP acknowledge that there is a common responsibility in these materials between the federal, state and local authorities. We do not believe that, as Mr Bucher said some time ago, Parliament should go over the countries. I say quite honestly: This is not our basic attitude, but we say: Common responsibility also means agreeing! There has already been agreement in far-reaching areas, as you know, Sepp Bucher! There is an agreement between the federal, state and local authorities as regards the agreement. Furthermore, point one is defined: risk-related financial conduct, i.e. any foreseeable risk is to be omitted; second: strategic annual liquidity and debt management planning; third: strict separation of treasury and risk management; fourth: complete transparency over all transactions carried out. All this is already signed. We have agreed on many other things, such as the form and breakdown of estimates of accounts and the conclusion of accounts in agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors by means of a regulation, on all the more detailed provisions, and the Court of Auditors is twice in agreement. I say quite openly – and in this sense I appeal to the opposition; Mr. Klubobmann, you said it yourself –: The Court of Auditors is a highly qualified authority, which we respect, which is often very critical of government policy. If the Court of Auditors now says, with what is on the table as a draft Constitution, it can live, that is a common path, then I would really appeal to the Court of Auditors to accept this attitude and to secure the constitutional majority with us. The Court of Auditors as the supreme control body of this Republic, ladies and gentlemen. I say quite openly – I said it right from the beginning –: I do not want to decide on these delicate financial issues, where the Court of Auditors says that this is not the case. Now the Court of Auditors is saying that this is a common path – and now there are problems again! I really want to say to the two colleagues from the Freedom Party, Mr Alois Grauburdauer and Mr Podgorschek: They were incredibly constructive negotiating and interlocutors, even if in the final phase there were certain, I would say, communication problems between negotiation and club management, but that, I believe, we can still clear out! Again: It does not separate us very much, it separates us from small formulations, and I will really make a personal effort to do so until we conclude that we have a constitutional provision. But I say quite openly: We can also decide simply by law. This is not so beautiful, I do not want to catch the communities, I do not really want to, but I am opposed to doing so now, as if the train had already left and in Parliament there is no majority for a ban on speculation. There is this majority, the ban on speculation will be established, and no responsible politician can be against it. It remains only the question in what form. I am quite positive that at least together with an opposition party – I appeal once again to the two colleagues whom I mentioned earlier – we are establishing a constitutional provision. It would be in the interest of the country.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5795	Mr Mag. Rossmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5817	Madam President. High house! Yes, of course, it is in the interests of all to have a ban on speculation or risky behaviour for all local authorities. This is true in view of what we have experienced in Lower Austria, but especially in view of what we have experienced in Salzburg – the first reports of the Committee of Inquiry are available, and they show a picture that is more than disastrous – and also in terms of what we have experienced in many communities and what we have experienced in the Federation. The federal government at the time took the consequences when it had to purchase losses of €300 million. But when it comes to the question of the involvement of the countries and the communities, there are difficulties. And if this is done as if it were not for the ÖVP or the SPÖ, that we have so far come to no regulation here in this House, I must say: This is because the rules, as they exist, are inconceivable, and because too much is being put into the hands of the countries, although it may rightly be assumed that the implementations will not become uniform implementations, but, in turn, autonomous implementations of the countries. Nine times per federal state, once for the federal government, nine different directives – all in times when all are talking about the administrative reform! Administrative economics does not make sense, but it does not make sense because it is not a single federal rule. What is new in the previous proposals on the financial constitution in § 17 states: We want a single federal risk-related financial event! - That's right! But if you want to make it uniform throughout the country, you must not go exactly the way through an Article 15a agreement, because this Article 15a agreement, in my opinion, is not a central point, but a watering-up of this potential implementation of a speculation ban. If some of these bans are re-examined in this section 17, one must say that it contains gaps. It is true, it is said that no derivative transactions are to be done without basic business, no borrowings for speculation purposes, but it is still possible that revenue from disposals of assets of countries and communities can be used very well for speculative purposes. In other words, what happens to the housing funds in Lower Austria is still possible under this scheme. That is why we say greens, who are always ready to discuss and negotiate further solutions, and we have done so several times: We want to... In the past, the Austrian Coordination Committee has demonstrated that it is not really useful, but not in Article 15a agreements which are controlled by the Austrian Coordination Committee. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second point is: Our financial constitution dates back to 1848. It is old, at that time there have not been these speculations, and it contains an authorisation for the Minister of Finance to talk about the form and breakdown of households, of accounts and estimates. But it is not about form and division, it is about content, and it is precisely such an authorisation that the Minister of Finance needs to be able to implement, together with the Court of Auditors, a modern accounting system according to the model of the federal government. But don't ask again about an article-15a agreement, that can only lead to watering again! We have an accounting system, a modern accounting system at the federal level, and this is what we are doing at the level of the countries and at the level of the major cities, and then we have an excellent control instrument that creates the necessary transparency in order to be able to implement a risky conduct in fact. The argument of the countries that this would be an intervention into the country's financial autonomy, please apologise, but that's funny, that's a laugh number! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is about the fact that in this country, what is going on in federalism, we finally have to take new ways, and new ways mean – this is an appeal to the countries –: Please leave this blockade, join us at a table, and we will jointly develop a waterproof arrangement for the implementation of a ban on speculation for federal, regional and local authorities – in the sense of taxpayers, for their taxes they pay are ultimately concerned! Thank you. [[Congratulation with the Greens]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5905	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5926	Mr President. High house! Mr Krainer has already explained the SPÖ's view of the question, and I do not need to add anything to it. In the debates, Salzburg has been mentioned many times, and it has rightly been mentioned. Salzburg has done a real job in recent months, perhaps it would have been appropriate to do this already years before, namely to think about the country's financial conduct and those responsible at its own doorstep. The shock in December, when all this became reckable, was great, especially in the coalition that needed weeks to be able to talk to each other rationally again. It was good that the SPÖ was not immediately for new elections, but, in agreement with the opposition parties, achieved a corresponding shift towards the rear, in order to really bring transparency into the matter, but also to give the country day an opportunity to take action – these have also been carried out in the last Landtagssession – to make decisions so that such a thing as it happened in Salzburg can no longer happen in the future. We are also well advised to make uniform arrangements for such financial transactions to do business in order not to have to take note of new circumstances and then to open the door and door again. In this case, however, Salzburg is an immeasurable pioneer, although only what the Court of Auditors recommended at that time was done; only the exit was missed from the point of view of ignorance. The lack of knowledge can be transported, of course, but that is not credible. If you are responsible for something, you should also deal with it in depth and take responsibility. This has been done by the Social Democratic Party in Salzburg: The financial reference has made its position available, and the rest of the group has helped to clarify its part. As we know today, this has been the method since 2001, i.e. not the invention of the social democrats, but was actually an auditor and tax advisor, who was the country's financial representative at the time, the inventor and interpreter of ideas, the start of ideas from the federal government. We have to take note today of the following: This was a situation that developed from it that made it so difficult for the political “heads” – under quotation marks – to understand it so that one needs to stand today and explain something or what one really does not understand. All the time we have now realized has led us to create clear, legal regulations to prevent this in the future. One, ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion I would like to ask our coalition partner, the head of state, Wilfried Haslauer, whether he really believes himself that he is being taken from him, as chairman of a bank with 1.7 billion in the credit, not knowing that the country is in the cred – especially since he has also held this post in the interest of the country. He hasn't been able to explain that to this day! I also know why: It is as embarrassing to him as we are, that is not a question, but today we know – in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” it is to be read –: Policy began in 2001 with these operations, and 2013 is responsible for them. We will be responsible for the election on the next Sunday and will also bear the consequences. [[Call to the ÖVP: You will have to do it anyway!]] I believe that Salzburg's policy deserves to be restored with confidence, because it stands for mistakes, recognizes them, corrects them, and, of course, is still willing to work positively for this country. We have not been able to see any personal enrichments by any politicians – and this can be maintained with fug and law – quite different from those in other similar cases. In Salzburg it was thought to save the citizen interest, to obtain money, and no one has thought about what the use for it is. If you had thought a little bit and placed 1.2 or 2.3 billion – at 0.5 percent interest – only on the bank, this would have brought a little more security. We now have this knowledge, we will act accordingly in the future, and I hope that everyone who is politically shaping us will learn from it their lessons for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5963	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e5984	Mr President. High house! If you look at the countries, I think you can sum up one thing: It's been debt for decades, it's been speculated, and it's been veiled. And this practice has come to light in the last weeks and months and has also come into public perception. The question now is to stop this, and the basic question we have to ask ourselves here today is: Does the government really want that? If you look at the discussion and look at what some of SPÖ and ÖVP have said today, you realize that sand is being spread into the eyes of the citizen here. It has been said here today that the Court of Auditors, with this Constitutional Act, which is now in place – which unfortunately cannot be discussed today, because it seems not to be able to discuss it here in Parliament – has no great pleasure at all. The Court of Auditors has said from the outset that it cannot be written into a Constitutional Act that the charges have to be risk-taking, and then in this Constitutional Act at the same time gives itself an authority to pack back with the countries, as should be the case. The term “risk-seekers” is not tangible. What's that supposed to mean? What Is Risk Avers? What are avoidable risks? - That's defined. And if it is in § 1 that it has to be risk-affected, and in the next section it says that this should be packed out with the communities, with the countries and with those who concern it, then I wonder if one does not make the bock a gardener. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Finally, it is about putting the countries in the barriers. With this Constitutional Act, we want to restrict the countries, I think you want to do so. [[Abg. Krainer: No, it's about the communities! If this is a small community!]] And if we want to restrict the countries, we cannot ask the countries if they like it, please! Where are we?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That would be the same thing as if we were asking the frogs if we should dry the swamp. I can't do that! It's got to be clear to everyone! That is, if we want to take the countries to the reins here – and hopefully we all want to do so – then we have to define something that ultimately sets aside what the countries have been using for decades in order to fatten their budgets and budgets. That's the background. The background is not that there are evil machinations where anyone tries to enrich themselves illegally with speculation. That's a system. The system means that many countries are unable to handle their budgets properly and are trying to get their budgets out of the financial casino. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] That's the background, and that's what we want to put off. And if we want to turn this off, then we have to make proper laws, not laws where the countries give us applause. If the countries are in favour, I don't have to read the law at all, then I can tell you right away that it's not worth the paper it says. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If the Court of Auditors says that this has to be clearly regulated in the law, why don't we just do that? . I know why we do not, and I also know why you, Mr Krainer, want to shift the opposition to the Black Peter. In reality, you want everything to remain as it is, because Mr. Häupl in Vienna and Mr. Pröll in Lower Austria and many other country leaders do not want to be allowed to talk at all, they want to continue as before. What you want is clear to me: They want to bring here a law that is not worth the paper on which it stands, through Parliament, to tell the people outside: Look, we're gonna do something anyway! – Citizens cannot appreciate that, in the end, the law is only there to give countries the opportunity to continue as before. That is the background, and we are certainly not available there. If we want to make a proper law, of course we are in it, and we can, of course, adopt a constitutional law here, but then it must also go so far that the countries will be taken on board. Finally, I would also like to say: We should consider why the countries have to make debts at all. Why do countries have to make debts? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Is that necessary? – There is a financial compensation, and it is possible to make so much money available to countries through the financial compensation – with clear rules – that they can take the necessary measures and carry out their tasks. That would be possible. Why don't we do that? Why don't we even ban the countries from making debts? – From my point of view, this would be the right way and might also produce a certain role model for the Federation, so that the Federation will finally stop making debt. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] In conclusion: If we stop making debt, we'll ban the countries, and then we'll be on a good, stable path! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6060	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6081	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Günter Stummvoll has already given a detailed opinion on the ban on speculation and healing, in the light of the greatest financial scandal in post-war history in my country of Salzburg. That is why I would like to deal with some facts and facts that were actually not properly presented by my previous speakers, on the one hand by Mr Krainer, but also by Mr Prehauser on the other. It is true that in the Federal State of Salzburg, for example, we started with speculation or with insurance and interest-rate transactions in 2001, at that time under the state council Wolfgang Eisl, who, of course, has also included the requirements of the Federal authorities, especially the Bundeskonstellungshof, in order to carry out such interest insurance operations. But this was very controlled, and just Wolfgang Eisl has always been able to present the business cases individually, which his successor as a financial agent, Othmar Raus unfortunately did not do. He took over the financial bank in Salzburg in 2004 with a debt of about €430 million; now it is over €3 billion in public liabilities that we show. Othmar Raus was then no longer interested in these individual businesses from home, he was obviously too tired, and he was satisfied that he also had the people in the financial department working accordingly. We had in 2007, as we know today, in this speculation period from 2001 to 2007, 500 million € surplus in this area, but it was not publicly shown. The public sector of these speculation operations was represented only to a share of about 20 percent. I wish Salzburg's head of state, Burgstaller, would have acted as our Finance Minister Josef Pröll, for example. In 2008, the situation at the federal level was such that the OeBFA generated a total of €3.2 billion, then a quarter came in which we lost over €400 million, and then Josef Pröll said that it was too volatile, too unsafe, and the business stopped and stopped. At the end of the day there were still about €2.8 billion left. Unfortunately, this has not happened in Salzburg, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, we have experienced the same situation in Salzburg. I would have liked the country's main wife – or her financial representative Brenner – to have told us in 2007: Watch out, friends, we now have 500 million € in the cash register. What do we do? Do we pay the debt we have? – Because these were at a similar height at the time. – No, you have courageously and funnyly continued to speculate there, somewhere in a black area, where you didn’t know exactly how much is actually inside. In 2008 it came as with all other things: A loss of €388 million has been incurred. Since today it is said again and again that there have been no losses: 388 million € loss in 2008. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] But the socialist government group in Salzburg did not act as Sepp Pröll did, it increased the risk and the pace, so it did even more speculative business, and that ultimately led to this overall great disaster. For example, the Picanery on the edge is that one has been taken to Vienna with a proxy issued by Blachfellner, SPÖ Council of State for Residential Construction, has received loans in the order of €1.8 million for the housing fund, and has used this €1.8 million in addition as capital. Overall, we had more than €6 billion in peak times, and that's really incredible, and it's especially unimaginable what measures you've taken there. If Wilfried Haslauer is always accused of knowing, as a hypo supervisory board, that speculation operations are taking place, I will tell you – and I myself will also sit in a bank supervisory board: [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] A Supervisory Board in a bank deals primarily with the issue of credit lines and borrowing, but in no way with charges of speculation transactions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6145	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6166	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, in your speech, at least at the beginning, you have a little bit of a side-faced, in good Viennese, at least in two respects. First of all, once again you have just accused us of the intention of this objection debate being the only one and only thing we want to pay attention to in the television era. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's right!]] - Oh, that's it! I think you've been talking about ORF 2, and it's been a long time, at 10.30. They have unfortunately been poorly informed, this time not until 13.00, but only until 10.30 o'clock; that was already outside television time. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Muted]] Second point: They have said: because the Members are always running away from us. – Mr President, I would not be so sure whether, until the election, one or another of your political groups could get away from what I hear. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: What do you hear? What do you hear?]] But – and now I am getting back to the matter because this is a causal link – Mr President, I ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: Who will determine the strength of the political groups here in the House? Mr Stumbling, who is referring to this: Is it the voters, or is that some politicist? – I think we agree: The electorate determines the composition and the strength of the political groups here in the House. And the voters put the BZÖ fourth in 2001 with 21 mandates. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Riepl and Mr Kickl.]] If the Rules of Procedure of this House were to comply with what the electorate would like to express in an election, then we would not have to discuss your problems here, but we would have no problem discussing the majority of the Constitution. You know that BZÖ is of the opinion: Even if, in some cases, we feel different from the coalition in the formulation of this speculation ban, we would still have – because we believe it is so important to send a clear signal, also a constitutional signal, that these speculations of the countries and communities belong to the past in the future – this presentation gives a majority, a constitutional majority. – That is just your objection, Mr. Collegue. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. stupid.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] There is a lot of BZÖ mandatare. Today again a BZÖ mandater has been praised, who considers that he belongs to another group, but, Mr Kickl, it would be really necessary to continue to negotiate this speculation ban in committee, and that is our concern. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Kickl]] It can't be that because one considers that there is no constitutional majority at the moment and in the silent chamber it is not to negotiate, says: Let's leave it! I have the impression that the coalition is of the opinion that unless this is good at all, it is now out of the agenda, because in reality you do not want to put off this debate with the countries at all. The problem, Mr President, is stupid – and therefore it is not that we say: We still have time! – that individual countries decide on their nature of the ban on speculation at national level. That's exactly what we don't want! We want – there we agree; They nod – that then, if federal money, which is federal tax resources, is distributed to the countries, where there is also a question of whether this is the right way in the form of financial compensation, so we want, if that happens as it happens now, at least to ensure that this federal tax money is used properly and is not speculated, that it can also be controlled and that there are also federal rules for a modern accounting system. That is no speciality at all, but a matter of course! This is to be regulated in a uniform manner throughout the country. And we have to implement this before the election, and that is why we want to discuss it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is not an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but it should be a matter of course for every member of the National Council. We should also feel obliged to the Federal Tax Payer and do everything we can to do – even if we have to negotiate the summer – that clear rules will be implemented before the National Council election. We have said that we would rather have had it different: that we make a constitutional provision and that the implementation takes place through a federal legislation. You want to do this with an article-15a agreement. All right, that's what it's supposed to be. But it would be important that the decision of this constitutional provision and also the implementation of federal budgetary law be taken at last. Therefore it is good that Klubobmann Bucher and the BZÖ always want to put this on the agenda. Do not resist, but do it at last! I think the population has a right to this abuse being finally pushed forward a bar.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6277	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6298	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I invite you briefly to reflect on why we are actually holding a repeated debate here on why we are even talking about a ban on speculation? The reason or reason for this lies only in the fact that a red and black speculation system that has focused on it, in Wall Street-Manier the financial sharks money – and tax money! – to blow in the throats, to break up on the basis of fewer cases, and today, thanks to our negotiators Alois Graurur and Elmar Podgoricarschekder Parliamentary process, has been so far-reaching as to be able to take the opportunity to put a bar on it for the future. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, so it cannot go! They have a head of state in Salzburg, which just a few months ago has noticed that in their own budget more than €300 million of speculation losses have suddenly spread to the public, they have not known in the back and in the front what this is supposed to have been, then out of these 300 million more millions of speculation losses, and now, shortly before the election, they are supposed to be a plus at once. They say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And: Please, please, pick us again! And: We're working it up! – I ask you: Where is the responsibility of a head of state in such a matter? – which is unable in its own budget to manage entrusted taxpayers' money in such a way that it does not sink into a speculation sum! [[demostratetive appeal to the FPÖ]] Only: Speculation has been with you in the social democracy method! To quote this today, I can't save you either. Think about the cross-border leasing business of your group at the beginning of the year 2000, where you've taken municipal property in Vienna to US investors, so that they can enjoy a tax advantage, and where the property of the Viennans has been dragged to the Americans. In view of the tense situation in America today, if bankruptcy occurs, the Viennans could fall around for their municipal property. Or: the Franken speculations Her finance councillor Brauner. – What about it? What's that supposed to mean? There's nothing you can hear about it! Further example: Wiener Wasser Wild Alps. – The municipality of Vienna has carried out leases, and the property of the Viennans has been exported as “Nobel Water” to the wide world. You come here and yell at the City of London, you come here and yell at Wall Street?- Oh, my God! – I say to you: You are the super speculators of this Republic! Instead of the City of London, one should speak of the City of Vienna. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to give the EIA, which was part of this system, a little on the way here today, which is an aspect of a margin which is no longer entirely in line with this debate, namely: The bank aid packages, which were mostly released by you, now contain enough people in your group representing the banking sector, have already lost over €6 billion to the Austrian taxpayer. That too is speculation, and we also need to talk about it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What our negotiators have brought in here has been excellent so far. Many points have come into implementation, but we have not yet reached the state where we can say good conscience: Yes, we can agree to that too! I wonder what is meant by the term “risk agers. ” From my point of view, the whole thing is completely inadequate. An access to the whole would be to replace it with the term “meal security”, by the highest standards, where a guardian may invest money for his mouth – and not risk-seekers! If one speaks of Article 15a agreements, which has already been the subject today: We do not like the fact that it is supposed to be left to venison – where the Burgstaller and Mr. Häupl in Vienna have also been noticed by speculation in the past – as the funds are or do not require. These Article 15a agreements give far too much space in the assessment of what speculation should be or not. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should like to remind you of an appeal by our clubman to consider also in this debate and also to share in the negotiations that speculation around water must be prevented, to ensure that water, one of the most sacred goods available to this Republic, is banned from speculation and must also be safeguarded by constitutional law. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] It is also intended to make a commitment to the construction of housing in Lower Austria sufficiently based. All these are elements of speculation. This wicked spirit of speculation must finally be stopped. I can only say: Follow the proposals made by Elmar Podgoricakund Alois GrazeitBack to the committee, renegotiate material, optimize, improve! And let's turn off speculation on all levels! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6429	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6450	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The problems that have caused speculation over the years in the minds, in the countries and also at the federal level, we see not only for a few weeks, not only for a few months, but also for years. And the Confederation has long since been in a delay, as finally a bar is to propose a ban on speculation, which will really meet this great problem. The problems caused by this in the communities in which municipalities are located are obvious: Holes are torn into the budgets. These are funds that are missing in health, in care, in childcare. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a fictitious thing, but it feels the citizens. It is highly cooked with the scandal in Salzburg. Salzburg has embarked on setting up a committee of inquiry, under the direction of the Green Astrid Rössler, who has made this very competent and prudent, in order to finally identify the whole problem, the whole moment of failure and propose a package of measures. This was an excellent work, and this work will be continued successfully. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, a federal ban on speculation is necessary, but, Mr Scheibner, there is nothing against the fact that countries are playing a pioneering role there. Upper Austria, for example, is a country that was already a pioneer when it came to establishing a ban on speculation. In Upper Austria, we have made this ban for the whole country, for all municipalities. And that's good, because that's a necessity. One thing can be clearly said: Where green rules, there's a ban on speculation! [[Abg. Scheibner: In Vienna, too?- Oh, my God!]] This Directive and these measures must be applied in a uniform manner in Austria. That's a good thing now. But let me say one thing: The best ban on speculation, the best wall against speculation, is the following – and this is clearly located at another level where we still have to work very hard –: a new financial market architecture. That means: We need a financial transaction tax. It is already on track, but it still has to be very hard work on it. And we also need regulation of financial markets and a bank insolvency right, which is long overdue. These are important building blocks in a speculation ban. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is, we believe, just as daunting as a single ban on speculation for all countries, at the federal level. And there you are. Therefore, this debate must be held consistently in the coming weeks in order to find a good solution, a good one before the summer.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6501	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to take account of the objections, i.e. to complement the agenda with the reports of the Committee on Budgets 2183 to 2187 of the Supplements – the ban on speculation – as Agenda items 1 to 5, in order to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The agenda for today's sitting, which has been communicated in writing, remains valid. [[11:31:44]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6537	Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, before the entry into the agenda, I should like to ask you to make the following statement: (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Down taxes – clear reduction instead of cold progression, urgent treatment. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. [[11:32:08]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 13721/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6566	I also say that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is a short debate on the reply 13721/AB of Question 13997/J by honourable Members Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, on the scientific monitoring of the alliance against violence by the Federal Minister for the Interior. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6588	On item 3 – Government template on the Federal Financial Framework Act 2014 to 2017 – there is an application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 LEG on the implementation of a first reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:33:04]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6615	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6851	It is proposed that the debate on points 6 to 8 of the agenda be summarized. Are objections raised? - That's not the case. We can therefore proceed in this way. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6876	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. A day block time of 8.5 “Vienna hours” has been agreed. According to the preliminary redistribution of the speaking time within a “Wien hour” for 8.5 “Vienna hours” the following speaking times are: SPÖ and ÖVP each 119, FPÖ 106, Green 94, BZÖ 81, STRONACH 68 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who support this proposal to bear a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:34:07]] 1. Point Report of the main committee on the reimbursement of an overall proposal for the election of members of the public prosecutor's office (2263, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6912	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first honourable Member to speak is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e6942	Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing a three-way proposal for the election of the Volksanwälten for the next six years. Television viewers must know that the three strongest parties have a right of nomination. The SPÖ has proposed Günther Herbs. Günther Herb is well known to us as a colleague. He was a well-known Court of Auditors speaker and has also done valuable work in the Eurofighter Examining Committee as head of a political group, I think. – Ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that you will be a public prosecutor in the future. [[It was in favour of Greens and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The ÖVP nominated Gertrude Brinek. I don't think you have to say a lot to Gertrude Brinek: She has been an attorney for six years, and this is the best recommendation to order her for the next six years. [[It was in favour of Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] The FPÖ has nominated Member Peter Fichtenbauer at a “thinkable” meeting, under quotation marks. It was a crisis meeting of the Freedom Party after a severe election in Lower Austria. It was that meeting in which the Third President of the National Council was downgraded and the disassembly of the Lower Austrian right-wing politician Rosenkranz failed. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Ah!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The FPÖ obviously wanted to send a supposed liberal signal with the nomination of Mr Fichtenbauer. I'm just wondering: When are you liberal in the FPÖ? – In FPÖ, it is obvious that if one has not, like the head of the party, been held as a youth in the forest for military sports exercises, if one has not, as the clubman of the FPÖ Linz, practiced the neck-stitch with neo-Nazi groups in the forest, if one does not quote, like the press speaker of the FPÖ Vienna, from SS-Liedern on Facebook, if one does not call the borders between Germany and Austria arbitrary, as the third President of the National Council, the borders between Germany and Austria. [[Hö-Rufe at the FPÖ]] Then you are obviously in the FPÖ liberal! We have, of course, – and this must be done if you are faced with a choice – looked at the CV, the Vita of Mr Fichtenbauer. The Member of the Fichtenbauer is from the classical German national environment. He is a member of the Forestmark family. This sounds very harmless, but is not a bubbenadventure club, but a hard-hiting German national burschenschaft in the Waldviertel. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It is a civility that calls Germany a fatherland and represents the opinion that this fatherland, that is, Germany, must be defended with weapons if necessary. – This is the political background of Mr Fichtenbauer. However, the Member of the Fichtenbauer is also a member of the association for the preservation of Walter Novotny's grave. Who's Walter Novotny? – Walter Nowotny was an illegal Hitler boy, before 1938, then became a member of NSDAP, was then a highly decorated fighter pilot of the Wehrmacht and became a Nazi propaganda hero after he was shot down. After 1945 this Walter Novotny became an icon, I almost want to say: to the pop star of the right-wing extreme scene. And Mr Fichtenbauer is a member of an association that has set itself the goal of not only caring for Walter Novotny's grave, but also of organizing marches there every year. Who's coming up with these marches? – People come to these marches, like the just condemned right-wing extremists and Neonazis Kussel and Budin, where Skinheads come, there come “Blood and Honour” groups. These are those people who, together with him, honor Novotny at the tomb of the Nazi propaganda hero Fichtenbauer. [[Abg. Strache: This is really pathological!]] [[Abg. Strache: It's really pathological!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder, What does a liberal politician do with these people at the grave of a Nazi propaganda hero? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No ODP MP, no BZÖ MP, no STRONACH team representative, no Green MEPs and no SPÖ MP would take part in such events. Mr Fichtenbauer is doing this. Ladies and gentlemen! However, we also voted in the main committee on the proposal for a three-way nomination, for two reasons: because in principle we recognise – the Constitution so foresees – that FPÖ has the right of nomination, and because it was clear to us that we did not vote against it because we lost this function during the last elections. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because you were wrong!]] This distinguishes us from the Freedom Party. [[Abg. You're bad losers! Bad losers and pathological!]] The Freedom Party voted against the Volksanwalt Stoisits for political reasons six years ago. [[Call: That's it.]] We do not like this accusation. But, Mr Fichtenbauer – and now you listen carefully to us! – If you want our voice, you need to clarify some things. It must be clear that you are in the Antifascist Basic Consensus of the Second Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a GDR division! – We have a basic democratic consensus!]] So whether we choose you depends on whether you are willing to disband from the right-wing extreme environment, from the right-wing hero worship. Come on. You are out here today and answer me the following question: They have declared themselves to be a member of the association for the preservation and care of Walter Novotny's grave – which can be read on the homepage. [[Abg. Kickl: So what?]] Are you ready to leave this Nazi propaganda and war hero club with immediate effect? [[Abg. That's crazy!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible!]] - Please don't be confused. Say yes or say no! If you say yes, the Greens will agree. If you say no, we will refuse to give you the consent because we are not willing to make a member of the public prosecutor, of whom it is not certain that he is not taking part in marches, of which there is an image that he can see together with neo-Nazis and right-wing extremists. This is unacceptable for us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Come out, Member of the Fichtenbauer, make a statement! The Second World War has ended for 68 years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e7159	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e7180	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very rare that I speak in a debate and turn to the speaker's seat. Today I have decided to document clearly how important the instrument of the Public Prosecutor's Office for Austria, for the Austrian population, and what valuable and important contribution we have made here in the National Council over the years. We all know the backgrounds. We know that constitutionally, what the order arrangements look like. It is up to the three most powerful parties to make a member of the People's Procuratorate, and in the case of equality of mandate, there is still the examination after a strong vote. I would like to remind you that this was not clear during the last nomination, because at the last nomination of the Volksanwalt there were two factions, which had the same number of mandates, however, due to a different number of votes. It was in my hand, although there was still a right-free room at that time to decide. I decided at the time and said that there was a strong vote. I have therefore also included in the three-proposal the Volksanwälter Stoisits, nominated by the green club, which was first discussed in the main committee and later here in plenary. In the meantime, this is all history, because the National Council, with a majority of constitutions – I think it was also unanimous – has taken into account what was a gap at that time and has closed this gap. In the meantime, it was only valid since last year that in a novel, it was also stated quite specifically that in the case of equality of mandate the voting would be strong. I think it is very important to maintain that once again because we have such situations that there are gaps in our constitutional provisions, including in the Rules of Procedure, and because it is always important that we also make corrections if this is necessary. We often have such debates, where we see that such corrections are necessary. I would, of course, like to use today's debate contribution primarily to thank the retiring Volksanwalt and the retiring Volksanwalt; there are two – a popular lawyer will be elected again, I assume. I would, of course, like to pay particular attention to the person Peter Kostelka, for he has been very successful in the public prosecutor's office for twelve years, and we have, and I would also like to remind you, experienced and saw a lot of changes in the public prosecutor's office in these twelve years. This is the result of the commitment of all those there, but with twelve years of work in the public prosecutor's office this is of course also particularly guaranteed. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Since 2009, and that was not easy at all, the People's Procuratorate is the General Secretariat of the IOI, that is, the International Ombudsman Institute. This is the merger of around 155 independent Ombudsman offices from 90 countries. At the time, a lot of popular prosecutorships worldwide have applied for this General Secretariat, and thanks to the excellent international work we have managed to bring this General Secretariat to Vienna. This is the merit of our lawyers who bring the know-how that we now have over decades to other countries, and I believe that also belongs to a thank you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] ==References== July of last year – that is almost a year ago – the People's Procuratorate also has very important new competences in preventive control. I don't need to list them now. It's always about looking closely at: Where could abuse happen? Where could there be a withdrawal of freedom? There are the Commissions which have set up the People's Procuratorate, and in the meantime they also take great care of all the institutions and programmes for people with disabilities. If one wants to do so, a public prosecutor's office, i.e. an ombudsman, has over time become a real human rights house of the Republic, and that belongs to solidified. Therefore, I am absolutely convinced that every person who is now on the election and is also to be elected is aware of this importance and is fully aware of it in the interests of human rights and human rights protection. I want to start from this requirement and I have to assume, because I also think it is a good signal that here groups are nominated – that has always been criticized – and that, as politicians, we have so much self-confidence and self-confidence, we really trust this task, as an important additional control instrument and as a control body for people and for Parliament. We work closely with the People's Procuratorate. Not only the People's Procuratorate Committee is a signal of this, the many reports that are being submitted to us, but it also shows itself in connection with the Petitions Committee, where the Public Procuratorate also has many additional competences. I should also like to stress this very much, and here I should like to raise the voice for Günther Herbs, which we all know for a long time as a former Court of Auditors, who has always been in his work for the purposes of control and will certainly involve this control activity in the interests of people and therefore, of course, in our interest. Therefore, the SPÖ will, of course, take full account of the proposal of the National Council's main committee and give its assent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e7261	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e7283	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The public prosecutorship is now 36 years old – that is, still young on the one hand, already equipped with a lot of success and experience on the other – and I think it has proved its need and meaning already twenty thousand times, can help people in many individual cases and, on the other hand, can also be helpful to us in Parliament with proposals resulting from the activities of the three prosecutors. In the meantime, the President has already pointed out that the People's Procuratorate has also acquired high international reputation, and for this it has been thanks to and congratulates the three remaining lawyers, but also their predecessors, for this has been done over the many years and the activity of many lawyers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as with representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens.]] In I would like to thank the two retiring Volksanwälte Terezija Stoisits and Peter Kostelka. I think they have done very, very good work, as have the remaining Advocate Gertrude Brinek, each in his field, and also as a collective, very well. So thank you to all three but, of course, on that day, especially the two divorcing, associated with the desire for everything good in the future, especially, as said, for Stoisits and Kostelka. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] Gertrude Brinek is not to be presented here, she has been a parliamentarian for 18 years, a science spokesman for our group and in many areas very, very committed. She has been just as committed as a national lawyer in the last five years – she has gone into office during the term of office – and she has shown above all one thing: that, with all the meaning of the laws and paragraphs – for their enforcement for the citizens, among other things, there is the public prosecutor’s office – man comes before the paragraph. This distinguishes Gertrude Brinek and predestinates her and certainly also enables her for another period of service for which we have proposed her. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as with representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens.]] Our group has already agreed in the main committee to the two other candidates, Günther Herbe and Peter Fichtenbauer, and will of course do so again today. Mr Steinhauser, one thing I don't understand: Why, first, in this debate, one brings in such a vicious tone, alluding to a crisis meeting with the liberals and what possibly happened to my colleague, Count, there. I can only call him “bossy. ” I can't understand that, but you have to make that up with yourself. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] Secondly – this is less new – that you now have a political value in the usual self-righteous nature of the Greens: Is Mr Fichtenbauer now a Liberal or – why should he? [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: He can declare himself!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can't find a provision anywhere, and I don't even see a moral necessity to explain here: Am I liberal, am I national, am I a social democrat or am I Christian democratic? Political attitude and basicity is not a subject for so long as his ability is undisputed, his predicament is undisputed, and above all one undisputed: that Peter Fichtenbauer moves on the basis of the rule of law. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] We have no doubt about this, and that is why we will also vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e7355	Mr Klubobmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e7377	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It should be understood as a matter of course and finally recognised by the Green Group and accepted that in this House everyone is sitting here and sitting MEPs of all the parties who live the basic democratic, constitutional consensus – and of course – and who ultimately adhere to democratic and constitutional rights and who hopefully live. And when you get out of here, Mr Steinhauser – I know you from time to time in the district office on the country road – you are quite clear to me in your continuity. Anyone you know from this time can also understand how greens often act and act. You, Mr Steinhauser, show that you are bad losers, in the truest sense of the word. Take note that at the last National Council election you have been demolitioned by the voters from the third place to the fifth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And take note, Mr Steinhauser, that the voters have spoken a clear word of power here. And, of course, you are bad losers when you come out here and you do not accept exactly what is ultimately required in the right of nomination, in the basic democratic consensus, namely the proposal right of the three strongest parties, in this form, because you no longer have a green national lawyer. It's transparent, but I'm coming to talk about your other allegations. The Public Prosecutorship is one of the most important instruments for citizens, as rightly stressed, so that citizens can have their right. Unfortunately, God's right in our society is often abstained from them, and unfortunately God's experience is that we have many lawyers in the Republic today: Lawyers who go into the race for speculators and operate lobbyism, lawyers who work lobbyism for banks, for global corporations, but unfortunately God's not for the citizens of the country. And so it is very important that we have a lawyer here with a long-standing, sincere and excellent member of parliament, namely Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, who will be a real lawyer for the citizens and a lawyer of the people. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With his professional competence, which he has lived and proved here in the house throughout all these years, he is a full-blood lawyer who will switch directly from his lawyer to the public prosecutor's office, who has done many things here in the High House and who will also rightly find himself in this tradition, the living tradition of the public prosecutor's office – which, by the way, was also a liberal idea and demand and has succeeded in happiness. The People's Procuratorate was a liberal demand and idea, which could then be enforced in the course of negotiations with SPÖ, for the benefit of the citizens of that country. And there are many successful liberal lawyers – and this tradition is now fortunately continued by us Freemans, after we were able to win third place again at the last National Council election –: I can remember Gustav Seillinger and Helmuth Josseck, great personalities, dear Peter, and I am convinced that you will also live up to them. Of course, we all respect the proposals made by all the political groups, because this is also part of our democratic understanding, and I thank you, Peter, for your excellent performance in Parliament, for which you have deserved recognition, as we have heard today, of other parties too, because you have always been an impeccable and upright democrat, a person who has always lived on the basis of the democratic and constitutional principles of this country. You were chairman of the Corruption Investigation Committee in 2008, you have done great things in this function, you have also been chairman of the National Defense Committee, where you have done a lot. And it is therefore all the more significant when the Greens stand out here today and try to get in position again with sudel campaigns against your person. I'm telling you quite openly: All that is not communist, Mr Steinhauser, is apparently defamated by the Greens once in principle as Neonazi. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is what we must experience and suffer in many debates. Here you live exactly what Alexander Solschenizyn once gave the best, who said, the communists, the real communists vilified and criminalized politically dissidents, but spare the true criminals in our society. That's exactly what I'm often reminded of. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you're talking about margins you should clean: Well, maybe you'll start with Mr. Ollinger on the left! This was probably the reason why he was no longer placed and nominated for the next election. Like you and many others in your ranks, the Lord of Oillinger seems to have a pathological fixation when it comes to denoting and defaming every liberal. [[Abg. Brosz: That's okay, isn't it?]] They should not be bad losers and perhaps stick to the truth even with the examples. They also briefly mentioned Walter Nowotny, who is supposed to be an icon. Yes, for whom? – He has received an honorary grave among socialist mayors in Vienna. And for good reason and rightly, Mayor Helmut Zilk has said that this person has not been blamed, has fallen at the age of 24, has not been a member of the NSDAP and therefore has received an honorary grave among socialist mayors in Vienna, which Dr. Helmut Zilk has also defended as mayor. – The fact that this was then valued differently in a further series, that it was officially accepted by him the Tomb of Honor, although it is still in the line of the Tombs of Honor and is still maintained, is another story and another chapter. But that you then also accuse Dr. Martin Graf of once in the past expressing the wish that the unholy GDR and BRD border will hopefully be sometime a story, that will once again show your historical understanding. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are apparently deeply affected that the Communist GDR is unfortunately God's past. This is your history and world picture. Then you throw it to Dr. Martin Graf in front of me, who just talked about this disgusting border. [[Abg. Oillinger: This is about Germany!]] That only shows once again how you act. They try to get a Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, a sincere, freedom-thinking man and untadel democrats to go to the vicinity of right-wing extremism and anti-Semitism in the last-class way. They actually don't say anything about Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer. But what you say or show is that you have a completely inappropriate character. This is the picture you showed here. In the end, that doesn't speak for you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I wish you, dear Peter Fichtenbauer, all the right in your new office as a popular lawyer. Be aware of your, above all, of this liberal tradition in the People's Procuratorate! I'm sure you'll be more than grown up in your job. You have the professional skills and competence to do so, and you do not lack, above all, social intelligence, which is particularly necessary. This means going out to the citizens, going to them, helping them with advice and deed, and helping the citizens with their right as a popular lawyer. Above all, it is also important to see that such negative developments and contaminants that we have experienced in the House today against your person can also be addressed to citizens in the future. I would like to thank you for all your achievements in the House. But you do not get away with us, because you remain a very essential partner of Parliament in this activity. - All right, all right, dear Peter.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e7474	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e7496	High house! I do not want to disturb the obstinate consecration of the People's Prosecution. But in Austria we have a very different problem. Our problem is that this public prosecutorship is increasingly being misused as a political exorbitant for failed political resistance, ladies and gentlemen. Where are the times of a Helmuth Josseck? That's what I'm giving to Mr. Strache. Where are the times of a colleague Stadler, a colleague Kohlmaier from the Austrian People's Party? Where are the times of Gustav Zeillinger? They were outstanding lawyers and gave this ombudsman of the Republic this unique priority. What do we have today? – We have an occupation with failed polytexists. Mr Steinhauser, if you had also mentioned the Vita of Mr Herbe, we could have talked about it as well: Failed politicisms, which are left to the federal management, because they have become unbearable in social democracy and have to make room for Mr. Darabos, are now transferred to the Polit-Rentnerbankerl to the People's Procuratorate. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] He is a typical representative of the old political system. At 60 percent, Mr. Chief Government Council of Herbs was selected by the Styrian Government – full Gage. He is a little shorter in the National Council than the longest-serving member of the Second Republic of Josef Cap. Günther Herbs is the second-ever politician of this Republic. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher and Krainer.]] We can't do that. We must draw attention to the fact that, out of respect and respect for the public prosecutor's institution, we cannot allow this public prosecutor's office to become a collective forum for politicians for which there is no longer any use here in the House. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] That's it. I do not know that next, if Mrs Rudas is no longer well-informed in the SPÖ, she will be offered a non-official city council in Vienna, so that she can also celebrate her political rural outpouring in the dark of social democracy. This, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with the self-respect of this House, with respect for the institution of the People's Prosecution! [[Abg. Neubauer: How many times have you resigned?]] [[Abg. Kickl: self-esteem? Just you!]] Why don't we order experts at the People's Procuratorate? Why don't we order representatives of NGOs? Why don't we order ombudsmen who have already shown in the past that they represent the rights of citizens properly? Why, then, does this public prosecutorship depend every six years on the gang of party politics and why do we have to listen to unworthy debates, like that debate by Mr Steinhauser? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] By the way, we have no understanding for him either. Because one thing is clear: If the Austrian Constitution lays down the right of proposal to the three strongest parties in this House, these three parties also have the right to nominate public life personalities for the public prosecutorship. We are only annoyed that it is again former politicians for whom one has no use, and that no experts or recognised personalities can be ordered across all party borders. Again: Where are the times of a Horst Saviour? Where are the times of a Josseck, a Sailingman, an Ewald Stadler? [[Intervening calls and cheerfulness at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Today, we have declining deployment rates in the People's Procuratorate's programmes. The public prosecutors' complaints are increasingly going back, because the citizens in this public prosecutor's office no longer see a point of contact for dealing with their concerns. That's where we should get back! That was the idea of founding 36 years ago – at the time at the initiative of the liberals, that was true. The founding idea of the People's Procuratorate was to help citizens to their right. But this public prosecutorship is not supposed to work according to the motto: If you have a grandpa, send him to Europe! [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stitch: The Stadler! “If you have a grandpa, send him to Europe”! The Stadler Grandpa!]] These political grandfathers and grandmothers should not be allowed to go to the People's Procuratorate. Ladies and gentlemen! We're not going with that. Mr Strache can still allow so many calls for call. On a day when once again a representative of the BZÖ, through the harvesting of a mandate from the Freedom Party, should go into it and think about how it is dealing with the democratic institutions of this House and how it keeps up with these characteristics, such as honor, grace and fidelity, which it so much likes to write on its flags in the future. [[Abg. Strache: Why didn't the Stadler accept? Because he wants to sit in the EU Parliament for a year!]] [[Abg. Strache: Because he's afraid he'll be out of work!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Today, they are once again exclusively party politics, rather than helping the electorate's right to break through.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e7635	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e7664	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! With July 2013, the seventh term of the public prosecutor's office begins. In 1977, the People's Procuratorate was founded and set up as an auxiliary body of the Parliament, the House. The Volksanwälte – already mentioned today – can be selected for a maximum of two periods, i.e. for a maximum of twelve years. On behalf of our group, I would like to thank the two divorced national lawyers. Mr Brinek remains in office and will carry out this post for another six years. The two new colleagues were also mentioned, Mr Herbe and Mr Fichtenbauer. Nor do we have any opposition against these two gentlemen, and they will also be elected, as proposed in the main committee. We also believe that every party that has the right to propose is entitled to nominate those persons for an office that it considers to be correct. There should also not be affected from the outside or a person should be questioned for ideological or other reasons. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] To the public prosecutor's office in general, I can say that she's a good establishment. There, citizens are quickly and unbureaucratically helped. The Austrians can contact the Public Prosecutor's Office free of charge. The People's Procuratorate processes around 16,000 citizens each year. This shows, on the one hand, that the public prosecutorship is doing good work, but on the other hand it also shows a maladministration in the administration. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this must also be addressed. The administrative reform is always in the mouth. Unfortunately, nothing happens. Only yesterday was A report again in the “time in the picture”. The Court of Auditors has re-entered the administrative reform in connection with the new Federal Financial Framework Act, because it will no longer be budgetary if we do not make administrative reforms. Unfortunately, the historical administrative structures have not been adapted to the modern needs. There are too many complicated laws that need to be managed, and it just doesn't work. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the administration is inefficient and expensive in many areas. We want a slim and efficient administration. That is why we have often proposed to address the reduction in administrative costs over the next five years – by 5 percent each year. This is an important, right and urgent point. I should like to ask you to cooperate so that we can finally come to an administrative simplification and comply with the Court of Auditors' recommendations. He is happy to be quoted here and to be addressed – even today in the debate on the ban on speculation. But if it really matters, then you don't hear anything, then the Court of Auditors' opinion is not that important anymore – and that can't be it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Let me conclude by saying that it is quite possible to discuss how the people's lawyers will be elected in the future, how they will be nominated, whether there should be a hearing whether there would be more citizens' participation. This is quite a point we can remember. But for today's election we give our approval to the three proposed candidates. I should also like from this point of view to wish everything good and good cooperation for the next six years between the public prosecutors and the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e7731	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e7753	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Our group has agreed to the proposal of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure. [[Call at the SPÖ: The Grosz too?]] As long as the order mode in Article 148g para. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act is regulated in such a way that the three strongest parties can either make a nomination and that this overall proposal must be decided by the National Council's main committee. This must be taken note of. Today's day is also suitable for discussing whether you want to change or change this order mode or the type of nomination. In my opinion, it is quite possible to discuss this. However, as long as this is so and the three strongest parties have this right, this must also be noted. However, I would like to very strongly support Mr Grosz's appeal. If, on all sides, it is stressed how important the public prosecutorship is, how important it is for the citizens in their fight for their right, then the appeal is justified that the choice of lawyers by the individual political groups should not focus on party politics and internal-party processes, but rather on the suitability and qualification of the public prosecutor's important office. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to express this appeal today. That's not what you need to get excited about. A sentence on the nomination of Mr Fichtenbauer by the FPÖ: I believe that Mr Fichtenbauer as a trained lawyer, as a doctor of the jurist, who has been a successful lawyer for decades in my knowledge, alone through his professional career, but also through his experience, which he has done here in Parliament and as a parliamentarian with the citizens, is suitable for this function. If I focus on this suitability and not on party-political interests, as the Greens do, then I do not see why we should take a negative attitude towards Mr Fichtenbauer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I was myself in this main committee. Obviously a crisis has taken place somewhere else, namely in the Green Group, because the main committee has not heard of these concerns. This proposal was unanimously decided that the Greens did not make any contribution in this direction. It is obvious that a club crisis has broken out internally, and Mr. Oellinger and probably also colleague Pilz will have made a giant whirlwind at Federal Party Obfrau Glawischnig: We can't choose the bad spruce farmer. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I give you advice: The swing of the Nazi club was never particularly successful, you should know that now. It is not quite successful until one swings the Nazi club against a person in which this is really unwarranted and has absolutely no factual basis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] I'm not one who wants to defend the Freedom Party, but what's enough is enough. Mr Fichtenbauer is an impeccable personality. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We take note of the right of nomination. Mr Fichtenbauer will thus have our confidence. I am convinced that he will justify this, as I hope Mr Herbs will. I am already a little skeptical, Mr Grosz has also raised the concerns. In contrast to my colleague, Mr Fichtenbauer, I am not sure with my colleague Herb, whether the internal states in Social Democracy have given the result for his nomination as his actual capacity for the public prosecutor's office. [[Abg. Grosz: But he knows about flying!]] But as has been said, the right of nomination is so, you can only accept or reject the overall proposal. [[Call the SPÖ: You should be ashamed!]] [[Abg. Grosz: At least he knows when flying!]] We accept him and hope that colleague herbs will carry out his duties more successfully than he did as SPÖ-Federal Managing Director, because there he had to clear his chair.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e7847	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e7869	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, thank you very much to the divorced popular lawyer Peter Kostelka and, of course, to Teresa Stoisits. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is not yet the last session, we will once again thank everyone. But now to the next election: The Constitution states that the three strongest parties nominate the Volksanwälte and Volksanwälte. This is a law, as we know, from the 1970s. At that time there were only three parties, as it was relatively easy, in the meantime a lot has shifted. The fact that such an order mode without any hearing is no longer acceptable today is relatively easy to see – only because of the new tasks the public prosecutor has, namely the OPCAT tasks, i.e. the observation of torture in Austria. At least there should be people who are half familiar with human rights. That is why we have also started a discussion in the Constitutional Committee. We have also tabled an amendment on this subject. He was too concrete and was not accepted. But after all, there has been a committee meeting held by all the parties and according to which hearings are at least a subject before orders from Parliament's institutions, and the Constitutional Spokesmen should meet to draw up an appropriate approach to this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the meantime, there has been only one political group: It is important to point out that we Greens constantly insist on these talks. It didn't come to that. We're sorry. But that does not mean that we do not adhere to the current constitution. There is still this outdated order mode and we will of course not resist it. We would not in principle reject the FPÖ proposal either. We have also shown this in the main committee – in contrast to your group, Mr Strache, because you have rejected Mrs Stoisits without If and But. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] - Yes. You didn't do exactly what you said before: For reasons of democracy, one should accept it! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Abg. Strache: This is wrong and false! We have done exactly the opposite!]] However, we cannot, of course, accept any FPÖ proposal. I can't do that either. We would already have to know if someone is actually suitable for such a sensitive office, whether someone who cannot really break with the National Socialist past is suitable for such an office, someone who cannot distinguish himself from a Walter Novotny and his NSDAP membership. I'm surprised, too, Mr. Klubobmann's head, that there's nothing coming out of the ÖVP if you look out here and ask: Why should the spruce farmer dissociate and declare himself? There's no reason for that! – In the event of such incidents, there is very likely to be a chance to dissociate. And when Armin Wolf asked you, Mr. Strache, in the “ZiB 2” why there is no distance, you said: With us there are ongoing distances to the theme! - Why now, in this case not? It would be easy if you could easily distance yourself! You could draw a final line again. [[Abg. Head: This is not necessary just because you want it!]] [[Abg. Street: We have long drawn the finish line!]] You also always talk about the many lines you draw, but it doesn't happen again. And then say something, you say Walter Nowotny wasn't an NSDAP member. [[Abg. He wasn't too!]] – You only need to look up in the German Federal Archives in Berlin: NSDAP member since 1. ==References====External links== Everyone can understand that. So that's a story lie. They deny the facts. You do that again and again, and that is characteristic of your club as far as the past is concerned. Pull a finish again! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And now I have a final request or request to Mr Fichtenbauer: It's not too late! You just need to get out and say: Yeah, this club, that's not the truth. As a popular lawyer, I can't really giant with such an association, not standing there at the same time at the grave with a war criminal, I say calmly, who shot down 250 pilots in an attack war and who was until the end NSDAP member. So you can really say, He doesn't need the tomb of honor, and I don't need to take care of the tomb. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Do I have to distance myself from my father now?]] I need not meet with people who support it there. I'll ask you to pull this consequence, get out of here and say again if you can or can't! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8005	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8026	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I actually did not want to speak on this item on the agenda, because I thought that everyone in this House would accept the democratic rules of play and the power ratio that the electorate has spent on the last national elections and agree to a common package in the field of public prosecutors. But I'll tell you one thing: What the Greens have done here has nothing to do with argumenting, that's agitating in the meanest style of the left as we know it. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Wheeler.]] 68 say hello, ladies and gentlemen. Faith Do you really think that you can make it so easy that you write down “antifascist” somewhere, and that would justify everything?- Oh, my God! Then you should hike to Germany to the now internal German border and set up your tortures at the antifascist border wall, because then this is actually a parade example for democratic architecture, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the mouth of our people it is called “the wall, ” and that was a death limit that was raised there in the name of antifascism. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, one about our liberal lawyer Peter Fichtenbauer: He's an excellent professional, like you don't have any one in your ranks, an excellent lawyer. Their “juristic activity” – under quotation marks – is limited to pre-condemning. There you are experts! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Peter Fichtenbauer is an Austrian patriot, as you do not have any Austrian patriots in your ranks – quite simply because you can’t start with “Austria” and “home” anyway. They demonstrate more politically the day after day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Our Peter Fichtenbauer is a parade parliamentarian, as you do not have any comparables in your ranks, because your parliamentary hanging signs use this pult here for a single purpose, namely to spread their agitation and their shakes and thus ensure the immunity at the same time. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the greens.]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is the instrument out here for you, but not the truth finding and the political debate. – Last-class is this, ladies and gentlemen! And then I'll tell you something: Peter Fichtenbauer is a lukewarm democrat, where some of you – I say, not all of you, but so many of you, and those who drive the group ahead in their ideological blending, who already know who I mean – could cut off a good piece of democracy, ladies and gentlemen. For self-proclaimed and self-assigned kindness, which you continue to celebrate, is not equivalent to the claim to be a good democrat. You should write that over your ears once! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens – it is you; not all, but parts of it, and I think many, many of your voters can't hear it anymore – there are many of you who are in truth, and I have to say that with what you do, with what you do, with the methods you use, much, much closer to these totalitarian systems and totalitarian regimes than you can love when it really comes to democracy and freedom. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You're talking completely by the problem!]] [[Call:The topic]] [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of Mr Hornek and Mr Rädler.]] You're much, much closer to it than you can love yourself. And you've proved this again today. They should consider whether methods such as abuses, evasions, mutilation, pouring, denunciating, whether those are not exactly the ingredients that regimes work with, ladies and gentlemen, where it is not particularly well ordered about freedom and about democracy. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Everything occupied! Everything believable!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Also... Member Number!]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You should think about it, and then you should put this bar on your own behavior! And then I hope that at some point the contradiction will dawn on you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. Because one thing I'm telling you is: Virtue terrorism is also a form of terrorism, even if you do not like it. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Petzner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We only asked one question! Since when is terrorism?]] Another thing: In the main committee, everything was still fine. The colleague Steinhauser: no critical word towards Fichtenbauer. Not a critical word! The oillinger must have had all the files! He's been doing nothing but tipping, sniffing and writing all day. He must have known everything – not a critical word! But for a few days now, Mr Oellinger has been riding again, expressing a pseudomoral duty exercise, as we always have. He's been riding again for a few days! This is, by the way, that colleague, Oellinger, on whose Facebook page – and this can be seen from God as far as follow-up is concerned – it is only so full of far-left figures, ladies and gentlemen, who are following the FPÖ as a whole as a party, who are following the individual politicians of the FPÖ and who, above all, are following the voters of the FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] And all these abuses on your Facebook page are common, Mr. Ollinger, namely that these entries have a particularly long shelf life date, and only when the lawyer is introduced to you will this be erased. So much about your concept of democracy, because you like to deal with other people's Facebook pages. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I find it immense to try to bring the Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, who is a lukewarm democrat, close to the National Socialism and to submit to him anything that goes towards Austria's hostility. That's really absurd! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That was a question, and questions are...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] What Do You Believe Are you really what you are in your composition, these wilds among the greens? What's that? Some kind of stand-by court? A green moral stand, where the media destruction and medial ruining of people are on your agenda? [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: A discussion will not yet be a stand-by court, Mr. Cot!]] Think about what you're doing! It won't play! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Don't scream so loud!]] You, ladies and gentlemen, act according to the maxim that the limits of tolerance, of democracy and freedom end where your left-left ideology has its limits. But that's a fatal misbelief and a mistake you're subject to here. And I can only tell you one thing – I don't know if you know him, the categoric imperative; I'm putting him to your heart warmest –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] If you have raised what you have here to the subjective maxim, this equation of freedom, of truth, of democracy and tolerance with your left-left world view, if you raise it to the general law, then you land in the Stasi State of the GDR, ladies and gentlemen, and we as the liberals do not want it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The comparison makes sure: Peter Fichtenbauer, this is someone who has matured in advanced political age, has the experience that has proven that he can and thus is the most suitable person for this highest office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] Karl Oillinger also in the advanced political age. It is passed from year to year further back with the Greens – now already on the electoral list. But be not as stupid as the Green Group to let these people and those drivers get on with it! That is no longer a question of good or bad style, but it is a question of upholding democracy in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8282	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. There is no final word on the part of the reporting. We'll make our choice. I shall vote on the present overall proposal of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, if no objection is raised, by standing up and sitting. – No objections are raised. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who have been working with the request of the main committee in 2263 of additions, Dr. Günther Herbe, Dr. Gertrude Brinekund Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer with effect from 1. July 2013 to elect members of the People's Procuratorate, give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Thus, Dr. Günther Herbs, Dr. Gertrude Brinek and Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer are with effect from 1. ==References====External links==* Official website I cordially congratulate you and wish you every success in your task! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ, BZÖ and Team Stronach.]] [[12:30:48]] 2. Point ESM Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance pursuant to § 32h para. 4 GoG-NR on the granting of financial assistance to the Republic of Cyprus
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8369	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. Following this declaration, according to § 74d para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. I am interrupting the meeting until the publication of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8404	I'll start the discussions again. I now give the floor to the Federal Minister for Finance. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8435	Mr President. High house! I apologize again, but in the city center an accident happened, and so my driving time here was a few minutes longer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: The President of the Federal Republic uses the rescue alley!]] The House authorized me only three days after an in-depth debate to accept in the ESM Board of Governors the principle of granting State aid to Cyprus. Yesterday, a telephone conference of this Board of Governors took place with regard to aid for Cyprus and ESM decisions. With this statement I would like to report on these decisions and the outcome of the discussion in the ESM Board of Governors. However, given the long agenda and my delay, I will be brief. Before: All decisions were taken by mutual agreement, i.e. unanimously, and I am very glad that Austria acted in the same way as all the other Member States of the euro area. This is a strong sign of the closeness of the European countries to do everything in their power to end the current instability in Cyprus, the current crisis. ==References====External links== In accordance with the procedural provisions of the ESM Treaty, on April 2013 the following decisions were taken: It was transmitted to the National Council on the basis of the documents referred to in Article 13(1). 2 ESM Treaty decided to grant Cyprus State aid in principle. The person referred to in Article 13(1) shall be: 3 ESM Treaty proposal from ESM Executive Director for an agreement on a grant facility has been adopted. The already known cornerstones of this: Stability aid is granted in the form of a loan. The total amount is up to €10 billion less the contribution of the International Monetary Fund. The desired contribution of the Monetary Fund is €1 billion, and the ESM's stability aid is thus €9 billion in the end. Maximum average duration: 15 years, maximum duration: 20 years. Provisional period in several tranches until 31. ==References== The margin and service fees are in line with the ESM price policy, the respective payouts are linked to the fulfilment of the requirements of the Memorandum of Understanding and the dates set there. In accordance with Article 13(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1301/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 13(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1301/2013. 3 ESM Treaty of the European Commission has been entrusted with the task of negotiating a Memorandum of Understanding with Cyprus, together with the European Central Bank and the Monetary Fund, and has been submitted to the Board of Governors in accordance with Article 13(a) of the Treaty. 4 ESM Treaty adopted by the Board of Governors. On the basis of a three-pillar strategy, Cyprus should come back to its feet: First: Restoring the stability of the Cypriot banking sector through the restructuring and reduction of financial institutions, strengthening supervision and improving liquidity management. Secondly, ambitious fiscal consolidation of about 7 percent of gross domestic product in the period 2013 to 2018 to achieve a sustainable primary surplus in the government budget, including correction of the excessive budget deficit on reducing public expenditure, efficiency increases in tax administration and improved public administration. Thirdly, Implementation of structural reforms to strengthen competitiveness and economic growth and to reduce macroeconomic imbalances. In the design of the aid programme, the Eurogroup has been able to draw on a wide range of experiences over the past three years. At the same time, it should be noted that the starting point in Cyprus was also a more difficult one than in the previous programme countries Ireland, Portugal, Greece and Spain. In Cyprus, we had the problem that, in addition to the problems of the banking sector, the state itself is in trouble. Ladies and gentlemen! The decision of the Board of Governors shall take the essential decisions. The first payment to Cyprus can therefore be made in the first half of May. – Thank you very much for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8477	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Klubobmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8505	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links==* Official website April, in an interview with the daily newspaper “Die Welt” the following means that he gives the euro only a limited chance of survival in the medium term, and he considers it realistic that the euro no longer exists in five years. I think that such expert opinions should at least be taken seriously and should also be critical of what can be done about such assessments, such as legitimate criticism, analysis and assessment, because this is not the only economy in Europe that has such a critical view. And Kai Konrad is not any, but he is the chairman of the Scientific Advisory Board of the German Federal Ministry of Finance and Director of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance. And at the latest you should think about why, in Austria, the government leaders are still stifling on this euro and why from the beginning – you always have to pick it out – you have painted the euro in the most beautiful overwritings, where at the time we liberals have rightly warned that this is an experiment that has never existed in history, where a forced currency has been transferred outside a federal structure. That this had to fail was already feared and also openly addressed in a schilling popular desire and made all the arguments available at the time. Only the SPÖ and ÖVP have never shown the willingness to discuss the content of these different facets. And you have to do that! At the latest, if you still believe that the euro will somehow be saved without recognizing the system as a problem with countless credit transfers. The euro itself is the problem, and the euro has failed in the form of how it has finally been enforced! And it seems that one is not ready to finally accept this, but with countless, fifty billion euros of the Austrian taxpayer, with an ESM-dict, with liability, partly also concrete cash payments, as now in the example of Cyprus, one is still trying to save what cannot be saved. And this will, sooner or later, unfortunately, avenge God dramatically, and one has to hold this clearly. The actually positive word salvation has been given a completely scaled and negative taste today. Who will be saved? - The speculators were saved! The speculators who have done the damage will save you with any further measure! But not the economy, not the European citizens, who are in fact pushed to the edge of the ruin by such speculation drivers. One is thinking only of mass unemployment, which appears to be present in Europe today and has increased dramatically, where one always resorts to the position: Well, it's not that bad with us in Austria, because we only have over 400 000 people without work. This is not so dramatic compared to the others. That's exactly the wrong way! And now we are re-investing €250 million, which we don't have at all, into this banking speculation braid. We ourselves have to take in these €250 million, because we do not have this money. And there is also a need to lay down the responsibility of the ÖVP in this context: 25 years of economic competence of Mr. Stummvoll, 25 years of ÖVP economic competence throughout this Federal Government. And this economic competence, the supposed, Mr Stumvoll, has pushed the Republic of Austria to the brink of bankruptcy! – “Great” economic competence! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] "Toll" economic competence with a government debt of 90 percent of GDP in truth, when you add the outsourced areas of the ÖBB, the ASFINAG and the municipalities: €285 billion in debt! And that's where you say: No problem, we take more tax money – which we don't have at all! – as a loan to assume liability in the ESM-Diction to ensure payments to Cyprus and towards the bank speculators. This must eventually lead to these liabilities becoming suffocating. It'll come sometime. These liabilities, which you have taken over, €80 billion target demands and liabilities, are not even included in the budget! Yes, you imagine, it's going to be beating sometime! Then we finally have the problem of being incompetent. And you never say that. And there is a danger that the future prospects of our children and children will be put at risk, and I find that irresponsible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we are rightly required, please ask this whole mechanism, we question the mechanism of the Eurocurrency, and we discuss what other variants exist, then I am glad that today in Germany at least one “alternative for Germany” opens up where many economists, university professors discuss and calculate exactly that openly. And they rightly say that the most successful and reasonable would be the way back to the national currencies. If this is discussed openly and honestly in Germany, then this is also a discussion opportunity for Austria to say that perhaps we will find our future again in Schilling. It is precisely this debate that has to be held, and it must be conducted openly and honestly, and we must calculate the variants. The damage is there, the damage was done – not by us liberals, but by other political leaders, Mr stupid, namely by SPÖ and ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The question is: Will the damage be limited, or will it continue to potentiate, and may in the end even be a hyperinflation or a currency crash at the door? – Some economists do not rule out that either. But at least one thing is clear: If, after Spain, Italy, Greece, Cyprus and Portugal, France should also be on the roof in the development of the crisis, then this cannot be financed! And then when the liabilities get beat, we have to borrow loans, because we don't have the money. And what if we are unable to pay? Who of the other countries that we have previously financed with loans can help us with loans? - No more! That is, sometime this built ship, which according to your thinking is supposed to work like a perpetuum mobile, will have to collapse. And you have to debate this openly and discuss it. I tell you, therefore, that we will be able to write down this Austrian share of €250 million, which is to be decided today, just as we have to write down Greece's aid, just as we have to expect these liabilities, these €20 billion in an ESM-dict – against the votes of the liberals – to be struck at some point. And there must be sometime for you to use this critical thinking that this cannot work, and at the end of the day we may be in an absolutely negative crisis, where we will see unemployment and inflation and much more on the rise. That is why I ask that at last this discussion, which is being held in Germany – openly – be allowed also with us, and not to simply push away everything that is present in other opinions, as stupid and populist et cetera. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What if it's the truth?- Oh, my God!]] This is our responsibility, and I ask you to do so, because I say we have a euro zone today, where we really do the wall of the financial oligarchy. That's it! And that's where you're playing, Mr. Matznetter. The financial oligarchy makes you the wall. They're making the wall the banks. They're making the wall the speculator. You are making the wall the global corporations that can handle it with group taxation to this day, while you are not prepared to spend a tax center for family support, for pension price index adjustments, for necessary care services in the country that need to be improved! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] No family allowance, no child allowance over the last ten years has been adapted to inflation. You save on your own citizens. The only thing you do is continue to raise the charges and continue to burden the citizens. This is your non-social political responsibility that you live! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the social political element that people today have to suffer in real political terms. It is time to counter-tax our tax money for our countrymen in Austria, for our education and our children, for more teachers and smaller classrooms, so that we can finally achieve good results in the PISA study again. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] There is no need to save places for nursing training. There are still savings and too few caregivers are trained. And then you come here and say we don't have nurses because you weren't willing to train your own youth. And then you get her from somewhere in the world. This is exactly the mistake you commit politically – and unfortunately God's people remain here in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And on the other hand, it needs a strong force. That's exactly the point. On the other hand, we keep the liberals, because we live the social competence and responsibility for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8619	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8641	This is partly the replica of a discussion that we held on Monday at the special meeting. Therefore, I would simply like to point out that the money provided here is made available to Austria in its own interest: to stabilise the euro area, to stabilise half a million jobs, which depend on our economy exporting to this zone. The money that Cyprus gets is not for the banks. A bank is handled at all, as it says, closes, and the second bank loses its depositors, I think, up to 40 percent of the assets over 100,000; this is the famous limit. [[Abg. That's the first step down to 100 000!]] It is also new that the savers of credit are asked to cash out over €100 000 – and it is hoped that the right ones will be met – because they have previously benefited from high interest rates, i.e. 5% interest. This is proof that the previous business model in Cyprus has gone down and that a new model is now being sought, but this is the case of the Cypriot government, as many others are the case of the Cypriot government. But I'm talking about something else today, because in today's “Kronen Zeitung” I read: “In the EU’s peak, the doubts are growing at the strict savings rate”. This is a little connected with all these ESM debates and stabilisations. The President-in-Office of the Council is quoted as saying: “The economic crisis is causing young people, in particular, to feel that their lives are still”, and Barroso says that “a stronger emphasis on growth” is now needed, up to the EU President Schulz, who says: “Without a growth perspective, without an end to the thirst track for the affected population, this policy is on the wall.” It is very interesting that the leading representatives of the European Union are now finding that, in the end, it seems that this saving course, which they have co-proclaimed and participated in and decided to participate in, does not lead to a recession coming out of this recession – on the contrary, that it is still leading to a recession there and there. And then the highly valued Mrs Finanzminister is quoted, who believes that one should not fall back into the “old policy of debt making”. – No human wants this, we do not, neither do you, Mrs Finanzminister. It is only a question of defining deficit spending in what economic situation, at what time the money is used to make sense in order to grow, to create employment and ultimately to run debt reduction. No man says we're making debt out of fun, or say we're making debt for the sake of debt, but that's seen exclusively as an economic policy, fiscal policy instrument. There is in a second newspaper, namely in the “standard” – you see, I am a well-reading MP – today an interesting article by Eric Frey, on the last page. Frey says: “The best way out of the euro crisis would be to increase growth in Germany & Co”. Frey sees that this is not so easy in the southern European countries because of the naturally high deficits to reduce. However, it is also possible to discuss whether this reduction of the high deficits should take place at the expense of the small and medium-sized people, whether the right ones are always being met and whether the distribution justice is safeguarded – I say no, I have made my criticism quite so – and whether we have done enough in the fight against the tax havens and the tax refugees who have already agreed with all their money and have gone into the respective oasis. But that's a subject of its own. The topic of this interesting comment is that, unlike an American study that says, it is hardly even a spark of debt to be seen, it has to be reduced immediately; in parentheses: no matter what impact it has on economic growth and economic growth – that he writes here, in fact, it would not be so stupid if Britain were to make a contribution to itself here with a little more government expenditure to save itself the next recession. – I quote literally from this comment. Or about Schäuble Frey writes: “() Schäuble lets Europe’s most successful economy slid into a recession with pride in its budget surpluses.” Frey also makes an allusion to Austria, Mrs Finanzminister. However, he says in this article that it would be good to increase purchasing power in these more rich economies of northern Europe. Keywords: Wage trends; this may be a topic in Germany. If this purchasing power is increased, this will also be met by the export necessity of the southern European countries which have it, because their products will also be increasingly encountered by buyers in the Northern European and Central European countries. This would, as it were, be of the greatest benefit to the entire debt reduction and to the whole situation of the European Union. This is largely reflected in what is inside, and I would like to take this seriously, and I would like to discuss this more differentiatedly, because it is not simply possible to use the keyword “do not fall back into the old debt”. We need to discuss this for a long time now: What is old debt? What's new debt making? What is debt making and with what consequences? It is a matter of looking at this very clever article by Eric Frey, which seems to be trying to interpret what sounds to us in EU headlines and keywords. Unfortunately, most of the time only headlines and keywords come from there on these delicate topics. That doesn't serve, it's not helpful. This legitimately also leads to such a criticism as today in the “Kronen Zeitung” by the commentator Claus Pandi. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] But what I'm talking about here is that in Austria, too, we should take up this basic idea of Eric Frey. I am not now in favour of the revision of the financial framework, not at all, but rather as a medium and long-term reflection in the interests of Austria, but also in the interests of the euro area and the countries concerned in southern Europe and hence of the whole of Europe, which is the result of this growth perspective, in terms of employment, in terms of securing the social system and so on. That, I think, is very important. You rightly say, Mrs Finanzminister, stability is a very important factor. Of course, yes, but this would also benefit from economic stability and fiscal stability. That would, I believe, be something that we might draw from these words at the present time – whether it be the right one – as conclusions for Austria in the medium and long term. So we don't have to discuss it all the time: Our money for our compatriots!, but we really want the euro zone to benefit and serve our fellow countrymen, as it is so beautiful in the division of the Blues, and, in the sense of stabilisation, but with this correction, which is now indicated by the economists and the European Union, we want to make a contribution to Europe as a whole, and thus primarily for Austria. – Caputt saving is not a program!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8692	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. Mrs. Klubobfrau, 7 minutes of speech are welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8714	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Honourable Members! First of all, two brief comments to my previous speakers. Klubobmann Strache is no longer here, but he has been very excited about certain policies in the past. I have to correct this historically. These, which he has been excited about, are mainly measures that have resulted from free government participation, namely massive cuts in the pension system, partly unscathed tax privileges in the form of the so-called group taxation, so that domestic tax-paying losses from outside the EU had to take place on their backs, and also one of the biggest corporate tax reductions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek]] So this was also a profit for corporations, a benefit that took place under black and blue. That's just for the correct. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also noteworthy that FPÖ is now making a very clear declaration, namely on the return to Schilling, which it has long disputed. This is already documented in writing as an application. I would like to offer the colleague, if he were there, that he might invite Professor Van der Bellen to his home, make a private case, as he had already been to the budget, and let himself be explained what a withdrawal from the euro and the return to schilling actually means. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: He's not coming!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: All emergency measures! They only show solidarity for the blades!]] Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, because of your delay this morning I was afraid you were accidentally arrested in the tax flight, but thank God it is not. I would have expected a little more report. I would be particularly interested in one point, which you have only done very little, namely: Why was Cyprus – that is a country that has had its economic base with the business model “Taxoase” – why was it calculated here, where so many international transactions are carried out across that country, not included in the financial transaction tax within the scope of this so-called aid package? This is one of the few projects – where Austria has also played a good role – where eleven states are now on board. It is absolutely incomprehensible to me why you have not been more committed to this. Please explain in more detail! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One thing, however, has been brought to the attention of this discussion on the aid package, which I consider highly relevant and important, namely the fight against money laundering and the fight against tax fraud. There are now a number of opinions from finance ministers to the Commission, which are often referred to as Austria. There is now a tax Commissioner who asks Austria what is actually the opinion and whether one can perhaps speak with one voice. The fact is that you have consistently put yourself on the wrong side in this question, where you can only stand on one side, namely on the side of the brave taxpayers and against secret accounts in Austria. The patient thread has now been torn to us. I say the measure is really full. In the last few weeks, you have actually proved that you are 100 percent on the wrong side here, and now Austria is already reaping ridicule and hohn in international newspapers. All over Europe is being cut short. It's being drastically shortened. Saving packages are chained. ==References== In May, there will be resurgence throughout Europe, the shame of Europe: Nearly 6 million young people are unemployed and there is little money to combat. There are reduction programs everywhere, savings packages. Since 2007, the banking aid packages have driven the debt of EU countries to the top of €670 billion within 5 years. However, – and this is really a remarkable number – EU countries are losing €1,000 billion each year through tax fraud and tax evasion. What is the conclusion of this? . We must do everything we can to combat this erosion of the EU's tax base. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I ask you, Mrs Bundesminister: Why has Austria been blocking something quite natural for ten years now, namely the automatic exchange of data on interest income? Why has Austria been protecting secret account owners in Austria for ten years now? Why has Austria been blocking, for ten years now, an extension of the interest rate directive, which only makes it fairer, which also allows the inclusion of stock deposits, of insurance income? Why does Austria block the closure of a justice gap? Why, for years now, has Austria been blocking an effective and effective action by the European Union against the so-called tax oasiss in Austria and also an automatic exchange of data with the USA? Skill You still explain this in any way reasonable? – That is not explainable! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Oh, oh!]] On the one hand, you have people who don't think at all about where they have their accounts. They may have a savings book and an account, if at all. Many people can no longer afford savings. Then, on the other hand, there are people who use incredibly much money to think in which country, with what construction, with which letterbox company I hide my money, and you are on this side. We no longer want to accept that, and that is why we are making a distrust request today. I'll do this the same way that the form is done enough: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, some of her discussions have been strongly debated in Austrian newspapers. I do not want to repeat everything, but the so-called Ösi-Oma argument now goes through the international specialist press. I don't know if that's really necessary: ‘The last bastion: In the fight against tax evasion, Austria itself has maneuvered into the European abject." [[The speaker keeps an issue of the newspaper “Die Zeit” up to date.]] I do not want to have Austria with such headlines on the front pages of internationally renowned newspapers. I don't think that's what anyone wants. I would expect you to lead the discussions to a more serious level, because no one now believes it. There is also a qualified banking secret for domestics in other countries, without continuing to protect secret accounts of foreigners in the country. It's all possible. So the granny argument is really the most primitive form of populism in this discussion, and you don't need that either. I'll say that again. In any case, we are speaking to you today of our distrust, which is, I believe, clear. They were described in the media as advisory and fact-finding resistant. I hope that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will not be able to provide advice and evidence. I'm pretty sure I'm at the SPÖ, which is some of it already swivelling. It may continue to do so out of coalition, but overall such a financial policy, which does not clearly participate in this global fight against tax evasion and money laundering, does not deserve confidence. It must also be remembered that trafficking in human beings, trafficking in girls, arms trafficking, drug trafficking are greatly facilitated. Please put yourself on the right side and exchange this Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8834	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8960	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e8983	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glavischnig, you have said a lot of remarkable things today. They have complained about our economic policy and also about our financial policy in recent years. We will be able to discuss this under another item on the agenda today. I don't know where you're looking. In Austria, we have the lowest unemployment rate in all of Europe. We have a budget path that we have set here by 2017, where we reduce the debt ratio from more than 73 percent to 67 percent. The primary balance of 2015 will be projected with 1.9 percent and will be positive in 2017, with 2.7 percent, Mrs. Glawischnig. Mrs Glawischnig, I do not know where you live. In the case of youth unemployment, in Austria we can keep big pieces on our really good policies and social partners. Here we are much better than other European countries, who are happy that they have us as a model. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: But we have the highest unemployment rate since 1945!]] They have said something remarkable about the Greens. I spoke of solidarity last time and I laughed in here and I was very keen about it. But I wonder that you have to do something for people about the greens who always feel they have to do something and they have to help people ask: Why did you save Cyprus? – Mrs Glawischnig! How will we in the European Union, as a citizen of this European Union and as a politician of this European Union, explain to our colleagues in Cyprus that we want to do nothing for the citizens of Cyprus? So I don't understand your argument here, quite honestly. If you say we don't do anything about money laundering – we only discussed it in the House on Monday – then you haven't read through the three pillars and the Memorandum of Understanding on the last time. And you haven't listened to Mrs. Federal Minister now. There may well be a requirement for Cyprus to do more against money laundering. We in Austria too do a lot against money laundering. Every bank, every economic trustee must keep its lists and see whether every client, founder, every beneficiary, every managing director and anyone who is only somehow related to a company is really standing up to a money laundering survey. I think you said today, Mr Ex-College Van der Bellen should give Mr. Strache a private body. I think it would be good if he gave you a private body about how it is in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say to Mrs Finanzminister and to her qualities: Mrs Glawischnig, you are proposing a mistrust against Mrs Finanzminister, here speak of Spott and Hohn, to whom the Federal Minister in Europe has been exposed. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: It is indeed!]] I would like to tell you honestly: As an Austrian people, as an Austrian taxpayer and as an Austrian taxpayer, it is preferable for me to conclude agreements with Switzerland, with Liechtenstein, the Federal Minister. It is better for me, Mrs. Federal Minister cashed in Austria for foreign accounts. I'd rather. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: And protect the tax evasioners with it!]] We provide information to the foreign – no, you do not say the truth either. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Tell the truth!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] We will provide information to countries if there are any inquiries if there are any investigations where suspicious tax evaders are involved. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: This is an invitation to tax evasion!]] Mr Rossmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Tell the truth! And tell people that of these foreign tax funds or funds, which are set up here, the Federal Minister and the Austrian State are very likely to take interest and pass them on to the other countries as well. Is it not better if we have agreements where we also get money for our budget, where we also obtain funds, than if we supply data? This is better and you should also tell people here in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another thing: The Federal Minister is fighting for Austria. At that time, when we discussed the Swiss agreement and the Liechtenstein agreement, some said: Never bring this together, do you agree with the European negotiations? Quite honest: Our agreements, which the Federal Minister has negotiated, are far better and far better, and they also bring us more money. We from our group express the absolute confidence of the Federal Minister. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter does well to fight in Europe for our citizens, for the Austrian taxpayers and taxpayers. And you can't bet on what you're always doing in the Republic. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for your achievements!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9112	The next speaker was Mr Bucher. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9149	You have to answer that, Mrs. Finanzminister; that is your job. [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: Go!]] Or are you seriously asking me what about Switzerland and Mr Stronach? Is it my job to answer that – or yours as a Federal Minister of Finance? In addition: I don't care what Stronach does. [[Call: I don't think so]] I don't care. You should touch that, but I don't touch it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Silence at the BZÖ!]] For Mrs. Tamandl, there is a short answer because she always criticizes me so much. I am now telling you in a charming way: So Austria's policy cannot be so good if, at the present time, 400 000 Austrians have no job, they are probably sitting at home because they are not needed to listen to this discussion in front of the televisions and wonder about this great country and the great politics that is being done here at the level of the Federal Government, and yet they do not find a job. So think about it very well from the wording, what you answer these people when they address you on the street and say: Such a great policy in Austria, that's incredible, but I've been looking for a job for months, for years and I don't get one; and if I get one, I don't get the money I actually work for and do a job. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That was only said once in the conscience. If you get another question on the street, as it is about the debt of the Republic, then unfortunately you have to answer, as does the Minister for Finance: Yes, we have a record debt, the highest debt in the Second Republic. So many debts in such a short time have not yet been made in Austria a Finance Minister in the Second Republic. – This is the reality, Mrs. Tamandl. I do not want to put the risk of poverty into the meeting yet. In any case, all of this together is exactly the opposite. It is worryingly bad what this Federal Government has done – of course, taking into account the conditions that are not good. But especially when the framework conditions are so bad and there are countries around Austria – apart from Germany – that do not contribute to developing a euphoria in terms of economic growth, then you should first consider yourself quite rightly, Mrs Finanzminister, whether you can participate in all the aid actions at European level, whether you can vote this in the future. They see only in the rescue attempts that they have been completely confounded from the beginning. We from BZÖ were the first to mention this Cyprus rescue operation here in this House. At the time, we have already said that, as this Mr Dysselbloom has done, this leads to chaos, also to the uncertainty of all savers within the eurozone, namely, when at the beginning it was tried to make the small savers, the small pensioners the money, so to speak, dispute on their savings accounts. You should be bleeding for what the big soccer guys deserved. There we were the first to point out. There are now many, including within the Union, who have also made this public in the Bundestag in Berlin. I very much appreciate Mr Klaus-Peter Willsch from the CDU, whom I know very well, who represents exactly the same views as we do. It is interesting that a colleague from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will be able to represent the same political views as we in the BZÖ. It's going to be tolerated there. Here in the House, on the other hand, if we raise our concerns and place them here, this is always treated as panic. But he puts it so boldly, he says that it is an absurd theater, what is happening at European level, and it leads to a rescue package 2 for Cyprus. He takes the same view as I do, namely that this cutback in Cyprus leads to this country moving even faster into the state pleite than it would have arrived by itself. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: There are minorities everywhere!]] It's going to be faster now. Cyprus will be pleading even faster. First of all, Cyprus has to spend €5 billion, then €10 billion, now it is €13 billion that Cyprus itself has to vote. How will Cyprus vote? This is an example of the negotiations at European level: Official salaries are reduced, pensions are reduced, wage tax is increased, 14 percent more taxes. There the gold is sold. State-owned companies, energy companies are being thrown away to European companies. Within a short time, money will be made at the expense of Cyprus. This, ladies and gentlemen, is colonialism. This is the exploitation of a state within the eurozone and nothing else. Cyprus is not viable. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is no need to be a national host, ladies and gentlemen, in order to realize that if I withdraw from the state's financial supply, people will take away the money and cut short, Cyprus will not be able to be healthy in a national way. Dear colleague, how is that supposed to be? How will Cyprus keep itself above water in the future? What Mr Cap criticised – the European countries’ austerity policy – is a learner against what is taking place in Cyprus, which now needs to save a multiple of what it is able to do annually economically. Yeah, how's that supposed to go? You don't have to be a full-time economist to realize that this will never work. It will also increase taxes on people who can't do it at all. VAT is increased by 2 per cent, that is, people's lives are getting more expensive. Yes, that's the solidarity you're always talking about. We need solidarity within Europe. I would immediately be in favour of more solidarity, but that is not solidarity, that is exploitation. They are starving Cyprus with this policy, and what You're running here, you're unworthy of human beings.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9249	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9271	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all: No question, every unemployed person and every unemployed person is one or one too much, there is nothing to beautify at all. Nevertheless, it is a fact that we have the lowest unemployment in Europe. I think the reason why we are setting up all these measures is yes, so that this will remain so and so that we can improve the situation again. However, I would like to mention something before I go further on the subject, which, as I believe, we can be proud of, namely the rules on how Parliament in Austria must be involved in the ESM decisions. This has proved very well in this first practical test, which we have now had. The ESM Subcommittee has been fully informed of the aid package and the package has been fully discussed. On Monday at a special meeting, we had an intensive and broad discussion on this subject and determined the Austrian position democratically and transparently. I therefore think that we have really found a good, practical and democratic solution with this package as regards how we deal with the ESM and the ESM decisions. That the ESM works has also been shown in recent times. How did the situation look like two years ago, ladies and gentlemen? The Eurozone was under the constant attacks of speculators. There was hysteria in the financial markets. Interests on Italian and Spanish bonds have been shot at unbearable heights. Every week, the end of the euro was predicted – even from the opposition or from parts of the opposition, this has always come. Thanks to the ESM, however, the situation has now been considerably relaxed. The violent speculation attacks have stopped, and if you go to the parliament canteen, you can still pay your coffee there in euro. [[Abg. Grosz: There you can find what the SPÖ has paid in the parliament canteen!]] Spain and Italy can refinance themselves under portable conditions. Ireland and Portugal are also on the right track. That, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great success. With the Cyprus package, we are now making sure that this positive development can continue and will not be remedied by the problems in Cyprus. Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Greece now need a stable environment so that they can really implement their reform programme. However, with the Cyprus package, we are not only getting stability in the euro area, but – and this is new – we are finally sharing the banks and their rich creditors to a large extent in the rehabilitation of Cyprus. It is important now that we look into the future – that has already been mentioned by Klubobmann Cap today – that there is a change of perspective. We have heard that the EU's leaders are already advocating to invest and to turn away from the rigid savings rate that we have always criticized, so that countries can have real scope to re-establish their economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9307	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9329	Mr President. High house! Mrs Tamandel said something I want to put on right now. She asked: How can we argue the non-help or the rejection of aid to Cyprus? But the question should be: How can we argue about the help? This may be strange for many now, if I say: How can we argue about the help? However, when we look back on those days when the euro was introduced and when there were massive concerns – in Germany, in Austria, there were massive concerns in many countries – because we gave up the Schilling, the Germans the Mark and many other secure, trusted currencies – there were concerns – at the time, the main concern was that it could be in a common euro, in a common currency which must be held for the other. The biggest resistance has come from this corner. At the time, the Austrian politicians, including the government, also many who are still in office today, again and again have called for the following: No, that is absolutely excluded, no one has to be held liable for the debts of others, no one has to jump into the break for others. That was the one-bright opinion at the time. This was also written in the Treaties. A so-called Bailout clause was written in the contracts. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No-Bailout clause!]] Excuse me, no-bailout. You know, Mr Matznetter, but you seem to have forgotten it again. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's still in there!]] That means no one has to be held liable for the other. Then, after we have all thrown these principles overboard, we have written something into this ESM Treaty, which is also very important: They have written in that we only provide help if it is essential. That is exactly what no one has been talking about here, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister has not said a single word about why she believes that aid to Cyprus is essential, why she even believes that we have to deal with our tax money, with our savings for Cyprus. Mrs Tamandel has also said no word of self-responsibility. I can still remember better times of the ÖVP when she had attached the word “own responsibility” to her flags, but that is no longer there. There's no longer any responsibilities at the ÖVP. Finally, if you decide that you should be helped here – and I am still going to help who is to be helped – then everything you've been told before will be removed and the word “own responsibility” will then suddenly become a foreign word at the ÖVP. If you are already so willing, we also need to help every Austrian who goes into private bankruptcy – and there are more than 10,000 every year. If you proceed after your reading and say you're just helping anyone in trouble, why don't you help the tens of thousands in Austria who go into private bankruptcy every year? Why Make You don't? I can tell you: Because you live your own responsibility there! There you say that everyone is responsible for himself. But when it comes to states, there is suddenly no longer any self-responsibility according to ÖVP-Lesart. That's the point! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Now, if we look at what is to be saved here, we need to know how a state is even pleading. If a private person argues, that's a big problem. There he can lose house and farm, so he can lose his accommodation. It can, as it were, fall below the threshold of the minimum of existence and it can also come into existential need – a state not. If a state argues, not much happens. History shows us that. Take a look at the last 800 years of the financial disasters in Europe. Hundreds of states have argued, again and again: Germany twelve times, France fourteen times. There are also countries like Russia or Brazil, countries that are now the big superstars, all have argued. And what happens when a state argues? - Not much. The creditors, those who previously gave him money, have a problem. That's exactly what you're really talking about. You are neither concerned with Cyprus nor with the Cypriots, you are ultimately concerned that the creditors – and these are mainly banks – do not lose money. That's why you're doing it, and you're ready to throw your own conviction overboard. The concept of self-responsibility that you once held so high is now suddenly no longer available. There is no longer any such thing as states that are supposed to be saved. In the end, however, it is only your concern to protect the creditors, the banks that have given these states money. That's exactly what it's all about, and that's what's going on. If you look more closely at this, you can see that the euro does not benefit the Cypriots at all, nor the Greeks, quite the contrary. The euro has massively damaged the Greeks, the Cypriots, the Spaniards. The euro has therefore harmed them because the euro does not do what it should do, namely devalue. Normally, the euro should be devalued. Mrs Merkel has already said that, and the French Government has also said that again and again: The euro would have to be devalued in countries that have a problem with exports and in countries that export too much, such as Germany. Germany exports too much and Greece exports too little. It is precisely the opposite that is the case with imports, i.e. the currency can no longer react. All these distortions that we see in the trade balances, with the TARGET2 balances – everywhere we have problems – arise only through the euro. We do not like the Cypriots, the Cypriot people do not at all. Even the Cypriot state wouldn't care if he pleaded. Only the creditors have a problem, not the people in Cyprus. Then you wouldn't have to drive a savings package that would drive people into poverty accordingly. Just, you don't want it like you didn't want it in Greece. We could also have allowed Greece to argue that this would not have been a problem, not a leg break. It is likely that Greece would now be on its feet again, like Argentina, Brazil, Russia, many other countries that have already gone this way. They have already experienced all of this and have come back to their feet after a few years. In Greece, we had this opportunity and we played it. Now you do the same with Cyprus and ultimately don't help the Cypriots. You do not like the euro either, you do not like the whole of the European Union. There's a current study I've got, it's quite fresh, it's been there since today. [[The speaker briefly keeps a document up to date.]] It was found in the most important EU countries that EU support for the EU was disastrously reduced. In Spain, three-quarters of the population reject the EU. You have to imagine that – in a recipient country! In all countries, approval is disastrous, even in Germany, more than half of the population finds that the EU has betrayed them, and says that it no longer has confidence in this EU. Only Poland is still less than 50 percent with regard to rejection. But there is also the trend very negative. That is, with this Cyprus aid, with your undifferentiated approach, we weaken Europe, which we consider to be an important and necessary peace project. The euro, in fact, weakens the European Union and makes exactly the opposite of what you always claim. We want to get together in this European Union, but the euro really separates us. That's why I'm saying: The euro has failed de facto, and the euro creates many problems that you claim to solve, especially as regards trade balances, especially as regards the money flows in the TARGET2 system, which the euro has only created. Therefore, there is no alternative for countries like Cyprus to argue: firstly, because there is self-reliance and Cyprus is in no way system-relevant – that is the first point –; secondly, because there is no one in the Treaties to the European Union or on monetary union – that is a fundamental principle; thirdly, because a plea to Cyprus would be a chance for Cyprus to come back to life, as is the case with Greece and other countries. That's why it's clear: The euro has failed, we have to admit that. Now it is about damage limitation, and damage limitation is certainly not that we continue simply throwing money into a barrel without ground and simply saving you everything that moves on stage without thinking about the consequences. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's why I say: Cyprus must not be saved, Cyprus should not be saved, Cyprus will unfortunately be saved, but that will not be permanent anyway, and then we will be discussing the same issue again in a few weeks or months, just as we did in Greece at the time, and then hopefully a little reason will have come back to this House. – Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9426	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvo. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9448	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If I look at this half-empty plenary room, Mr President, I would like to make it clear to myself whether Parliament's participation in the ESM Act, which we have agreed together, must be interpreted in such a way as to make a special meeting two days before the Board of Governors and to deal with the same subject one day after that. [[Abg. List: Where is the ÖVP? It's all black here!]] This is an incentive to Parliament's President, for we can explain the law in this way or that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The special session was among you!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not making the mistake of repeating my speech from earlier yesterday, I am actually dealing only with one point, with the particularly absurd point of today's debate, namely the mistrust against the Minister for Finance. So I have not experienced such an absurdity in many years of parliamentarianism, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Finanzminister has found the broad majority of Parliament throughout her term of office in everything she has put in relation to legislative proposals in Parliament. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a reluctance would have to be brought against the majority of parliament, but the majority of parliament has determined that way. In fact, this is a mistrust against the voters, because the voters in the election have distributed the votes in such a way that two parties have the majority here, and this majority has always accepted all the legislative initiatives of Mrs Finanzminister. [[Abg. Grosz: Who has acted against the voters? But the voters do not support this!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have wondered about those speakers of our coalition partner – he is unfortunately not here – who said we should consider whether we do not do what the EU’s leaders say today, according to today’s “Kronen Zeitung”, what Eric Frey writes in the “Standard”. Excuse me, they're saying exactly what we've been doing for years! We've never decided laws with the aim of just saving. This Minister of Finance presented two stability pacts to Parliament last year – one and two stability packages – and the majority in Parliament decided. This was the famous triple strategy: Savings, structural reforms, but at the same time incentives and incentives for growth and employment. Yeah, can't you remember?- Oh, my God! Offensive strategies in the fields of education, infrastructure, growth and energy efficiency: We have done exactly what is now the great recognition of EU tips! We have never said that we are saving, we have always said that we need this triple strategy: on the one hand, fiscal consolidation in the sense of stability, but of course also structural reforms and, of course, impulses for growth and employment! We were actually the pioneers of what Barroso & Co want now and what Eric Frey writes today in the “standard”! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All this, ladies and gentlemen, we have made on the basis of proposals that this Minister of Finance has brought to Parliament: the comprehensive stability package one, the stability package two, ladies and gentlemen. For me, therefore, the Minister for Finance is really the guarantee that we are making the right financial and economic policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our economic location needs this, because – and I say that again and again –: Business location does not mean entrepreneurs. Economic location means jobs, means income and ultimately social security. And here, for me, the Minister of Finance is the guarantee for stability, on the one hand, and on the other, for dynamic and growth. That is why I think that this motion of censure is so absurd, Mr Rossmann, that you no longer have a chance to justify it. Special thanks to Mrs Financier for a detail of the Cyprus package, which may have fallen a little. The Minister for Finance has enforced the inclusion of a Trust Register in the Cyprus package. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: We've heard that before!]] Mr Rossmann, I think it is hypocritical – including from the EU – if it is said that Austria joins the data exchange, then the world will be healed again. If you really take the fight against money laundering, against drug money, against black money seriously, then you first have to break all the anonymous structures, because there is no data there. I don't have data, I don't know who that belongs to, I don't know how much in there. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: We never said that was the cure!]] That is why Mrs Finanzminister's slogan, which applies to a small island – Cyprus – namely the Trust Register, must also apply to a large island, is perfectly correct. It is absurd that there is an EU member – I have said "United Kingdom" in the direction of what we hear about the EU summit. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What does that mean “hypocritical ”?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Grosz: The first call for order in the history of Mr. Stumbling!]] That is why it is really a great merit for this Minister of Finance, against whom you make a mistrust that she has enforced that for the first time in the European Union all these anonymous structures are broken up. To Be Believed You really think the big tax evaders that drug bosses have their money on savings accounts? [[Abg. May. Rossmann: How do you know?]] That's completely absurd, please. If you take this seriously, you also have to start what we decided in 2003 in addition to the trusts: Data exchange then, when Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Andorra and as they are all called, participate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darabos.]] That is what Mrs Finanzminister rightly says, the negotiating mandate must ensure that the agreements with Switzerland and Liechtenstein, which we have largely decided here, remain unaffected. Then we agree! This negotiating mandate is not yet available. So, too, Mrs Financiers is acting with full support for the majority of parliament. Therefore, Mrs Finanzminister, thank you for your previous work and full support in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9615	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. 4 minutes of speaking time are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9637	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First, Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. The fact that we are discussing the same issue again within two days is not due to the opposition, but to the government parties. The special meeting on Monday was convened by the government parties and not by the opposition. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I want to know that before! I must have the information before!]] [[Abg. Tamandl: You got it wrong!]] That is why, of course, the attention of Members will not be as great as it may have been on Monday. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to make the following request at the outset: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I will now also briefly explain why this request was made. Mrs Finanzminister, you mentioned today in the Cyprus aid, among other things, that three factors are important to you, how to bring Cyprus back to its success. As a third factor, you have mentioned structural reforms in Cyprus and are helpful in doing so, and you have also indicated that you are drawing on your experience in recent years. Now let me tell you the experiences of recent years. Take the Greek package! With the first aid of Greece – there was still your predecessor Josef Pröll Finance Minister; apart from talking about a business at the time – it was said to be so generous that it would be more than enough. In the meantime, we know that a second aid package has been needed, a third one, and the fourth one is already being discussed. This has led to all the rescue measures in all special cases. We are now talking about five countries. It has begun with Greece, with Ireland, with Portugal, with Spain. Now we're with Cyprus. The sixth will follow, and the seventh is not far away with Slovenia, and then France comes. And you know, Mr Hübner, that on Monday, all of these five countries have one thing in common: You have the success euro as a currency! Now I'm telling you the opposite. The best five countries in Europe in the economy – and Mrs Muttonen, we are not the best in Europe, because Switzerland and Norway are also part of Europe in the geographical sense. [[Abg. May. Muttons: In the EU!]] Then refer to the EU, if so, because already, the figures do not vote either. So much as geographical post-aiding. – The best five countries in the last two years were Norway, Switzerland, Sweden, Denmark, Poland. Do you know what these five countries have in common? – They don’t have the success euro! Now I ask you: Is this really a success euro if five countries need the help of all?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think you no longer know how many billions of the five countries in need of help we are talking about are already in circulation. These are hundreds of billions of liabilities, cash and loans. And I don't think you can answer from the Stegriff right now about how many hundred billion euros we're talking about here. And do you know what the success of all these rescue operations was? – The “success” was that in the meantime there are 26 million unemployed in Europe, of which more than 6 million are unemployed in youth. Trends continue to rise, also in Austria! Minister Hundstorfer admitted that the unemployment rate in Austria will continue to rise this year, despite cautiously estimated economic growth of perhaps 1 percent, if it occurs. [[Abg. Krainer: Jobs but also!]] – You already know what jobs are: Poor workers, part-time workers! People need two and three jobs today to get over the rounds at all. Come on, come on, wake up. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] You're perfect on the wood road! I don't know where you live. Another thing: Tomorrow the Social Report will be discussed in the House, and this Social Report will also discuss, among other things, the risk of poverty in Austria. In the meantime, more than 1 million people in Austria are affected by poverty. Do you know how much that was before the introduction of the euro? – Before the introduction it was 400 000, i.e. a third. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Black and Blue has made it rise! That's the truth!]] – So much for the “success euro”! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Something else to Greece. You know, your structural reforms have been so good that since the start of the rescue operations for Greece, the economy has fallen by just 30 percent. And in view of that, you still expect all serious that money is coming back somewhere, be it in ten or in 15 years! It can probably come back when we reintroduce the schilling and then convert one to one from Euro to Schilling. And then you want to change the economic structures in Cyprus. They know that over 50 percent of Cypriots are employed in the financial sector and banking. You'll kill them now. It may be that this is right, or not. But what do you want to do with the people? Do you want to refunction? Will it be potato farmers or olive growers tomorrow or whatever? It doesn't work! Greece has shown it. The economy is weakening. Portugal and Spain have a minus in economic performance, which is almost due to Greek conditions. Finally, stop and finally admit that the euro, the euro, and the EU in this form, as it is now operating, have failed!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9773	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kuzdas. 3 minutes speaking time is set. Excuse me! Before I give the floor to you, I still welcome the fact that the motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9834	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9855	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr President, there is now no stupidity. I can remember statements from our coalition partner, then before the so-called Loipersdorf package: We want to reorganise the budget expenditure side! . I am glad that we have not only rehabilitated the expenditure side, that we now have this balance, and I am glad that the colleague silently mentions this also praisefully. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Cyprus crisis is proof of the failure of an economic model, which alone focuses on a strong financial sector. I am very glad that negotiations have now succeeded in deciding on the rescue for Cyprus and bringing a little stability back to the euro area. But, ladies and gentlemen, the question is: Have politicians and economists taken the right measures in recent years to fight the crisis permanently and effectively? Did we find the causes or fight only symptoms? I am not of the opinion of those who say that the euro has failed, but in order to compare it with a patient, it is a patient with a birth mistake, because with two key figures – government debt ratio and new debt – one cannot lead a monetary union. That's where it needs a little more. It's like a doctor. The patient goes to the doctor – the wrong diagnosis, you can still treat so much, he is not healed. With the right diagnosis you can also fight the causes. And that is what it is about to do for the euro and for the eurozone. Savings alone will not reorganise an economy, we have already heard this today. But those who start up as politicians and economics with the diagnosis that the governments had been poor and the debt of some countries in the south were the The only reason, the core problem of the eurozone, is that the diagnosis is not correct, because the debt is not the cause, but the consequence. In the meantime, many economists and politicians also have the conviction that the cause of the problems within the euro area is not the state budgets, but the imbalances in the competitiveness of the single euro area. Heiner Flassbeck, then United Nations chief economist, writes these imbalances in an essay. June 2012 – are caused to a significant part of Germany. Germany – and in a weakened form also Austria, because we are very often attached to the decisions of Germany – has developed a competitive advantage over the southern countries with wage restraint and the resulting low unit labour costs. This led to trade deficits that had to be financed through loans, debt. Those who now believe that these imbalances can be eliminated overnight in competitiveness, e.g. by withdrawal from the euro area and depreciation, who are mistaken. The result would be a deep recession, as the surplus countries would immediately lose their exports and also fall into the crisis. It is necessary to make the interest burden easier for the economies affected and to enable them to return to the growth path. Those who also believe that a country can keep their competitive position and at the same time improve the others are entirely on the wood road. The adjustment process of competitiveness and the achievement of balanced trade balances will be a lengthy process, which will accompany us for a few years and which will also require us much. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: It was necessary and right to help and save Cyprus. For the future of the euro area, it will be crucial to see how quickly we can return to the growth path, facilitate the interest rate burden and balance imbalances in the competitiveness of the euro Member States. The consequences – if we don't succeed – can be done by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9916	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e9938	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I take with me once again the statements made by my colleagues, stupid and Tamandel, that there are now three people in this House who stand by the fact that banking secrecy is a great thing that we have gone the right way with the tax agreements with Liechtenstein and Switzerland. The third person, Mrs. Finanzminister, is you. But the rest of Europe is against it, and you have to take note of that. They are simply isolated on this question. That's the truth! Today, Commissioner Semeta writes in an issue that it is unlikely that it will not take long until Austria will also swirl on the path of virtue. I think it'll be that far soon. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: What does that mean?]] I take the view by Mr Themessl that the introduction of the euro is due to the fact that Europe has 26 million unemployed today. This is a strong tobak for economists, I have to say. There, Mr Themessl did not realize that in Europe we had a severe banking crisis with a subsequent economic crisis, which we are still working on, and that this is essentially the central causes of this – alongside others I am not going to address now. But that leads me to the keyword “bank crisis”. – Yes, the banking crisis in Europe is not settled by Weitem. And the most recent example we have for this is Cyprus. The crisis management of the Eurogroup around this Cyprus solution has once again made it clear that Europe urgently needs a bank insolvency right, a banking union with three building blocks: a joint audit, a bank insolvency law and a joint deposit guarantee. ==References====External links== March this deposit guarantee, says: for savings depositors below €100 000, should be questioned, on 25th was then rolled back, there has already been a step towards bank insolvency law, but without having such a one. One has gone on to say: Let us involve the creditors in the reorganisation of the banks or in the settlement of banks! Say: the shareholders, say: the bond owners, and say: the owners of savings deposits, but do not ask those under €100 000. The damage done by the Eurogroup ministers throughout the banking system was enormous. If we still do not have a bank insolvency right today, four and a half years after Lehman's pleite, this is actually a scandal! The banking crisis will have further consequences, we will probably be standing here soon and have another country to deal with, namely Slovenia. And again, the trigger will be the unbridled banking crisis. That is to say, it is urgent and urgent to work on this issue if Europe is to overcome this euro crisis. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To Cyprus itself. – Two issues are important in Cyprus. As regards the financial facility to be found today, as well as the MoU, the "Memorandum of Understanding", the question arises whether Cyprus poses a systemic risk of infection or not, because only if Cyprus poses such a risk is given and fulfils the requirement provided for in Article 12 of the ESM Treaty, namely to stabilise the euro area. Now I'm not for letting Cyprus hang. No, I am in favour of keeping Article 3 of the EU Treaty where solidarity is concerned. But I am in favour of Europe considering its economic model urgently. There is no way to do this, because as long as Europe is going to stick to this economic model that has led Europe to ruin, which has clearly failed, as long as it has now been decided by the Eurogroup and also by the ESM Board, it will be indispensable and alternativesless. But we have to be clear, there are alternatives. One of the powerful people in Brussels, the head of the European Commission, Barroso, who said yesterday that one might have gone a little too far with the extremity. It's kind of slow. – One has not gone a little too far, one has brought Europe to the edge of the ruin. That's the truth! And if we think about changing this a little bit, to loosen the consolidation a little, I say: That alone will be too little, it won't be enough! But that will not be enough for Cyprus in particular! The second central condition is that budgetary policy must ensure the sustainability of debt. And if I look at how this is justified in the documents, I doubt that this course together with the "Memorandum of Understanding" is one that Cyprus will lead out of this fiscal crisis. Cyprus has a growth downturn in the order of 8.7 percent of gross domestic product this year. Cyprus will have a fall in growth of almost 4 percent of gross domestic product in the coming year, i.e. more than 12 percent of gross domestic product. And in 2015 all of this suddenly turns: The Cypriot economy is expected to grow by 1.1 percent, and the following year by 1.9 percent. At the same time, however, a rigorous savings course is being taken in this country. For example, it is in the "Memorandum of Understanding" because this "Memorandum of Understanding" demands that the grant facility be guaranteed only if all these conditions are fulfilled. What are these conditions? – These are spending cuts – listen now, you didn't say that, it starts once! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] You have read something, but you have gone by the real problems, Mrs Finanzminister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are cuts in expenditure on pensions and health, there are wage cuts – at least staged – in contrast to previous memorandas that have existed –, there are cuts in staff levels, there are tax increases and – you have said that too – there are a number of structural reforms. If you look at what structural reforms are particularly important here, you can see that there are always structural reforms on the labour market. In this memorandum – I don't want to read it in English now – there are legal interventions in wage formation. In the case of Greece, there has been that too. Now, Mrs Finanzminister, she may not like to hear that. [[in the direction of the Federal Minister, Dr. Fekter, who is abandoning the plenary hall]] In the case of Greece, there was also this, but the ILO voted very strongly against it in an opinion. I hope that they will do so in the case of Cyprus. Furthermore, in this "Memorandum of Understanding", any change in minimum wages is to be adapted to the economic conditions of the country. What does that mean in 2013 and 2014, when the economy falls by 12.7 percent in total in these two years? This means that the minimum wages should be reduced to this extent. – This is where the poor and the poorest are deeply seized, and then suddenly the economy is to grow again in 2015 and 2016. The confidence of investors and consumers is expected to increase – as is the case in the documents inside – through a fiscal policy that forces the country to save seven percentage points of GDP. – I can tell you, and from the experience of Greece we know this: It won't work! On the other hand, it is still noted that there are significant risks of downward development. This is particularly emphasized in these documents when it comes to assessing the debt of this course. To put on the gas deposits, which are also built on in these papers, at least this is premature. In 2015, there will certainly not be any results from the exploitation of the gas deposits. As long as there are no growth-enhancing measures for this country, Cyprus will not be back on its own for so long. You just have to imagine: One has taken the country's business model, quite rightly, as I mean, and on the other hand, one fails to do what would be commanded to do in macroeconomic terms! On the contrary: Where the country could build something, for example in the field of telecommunications, ports and the like, privatisations are required! - I don't know what this country is supposed to do. Summary: That's not how it's going! I hope that the votes of reason, which are now clearly expressed in Barroso’s quoted statement, will finally prevail and that Europe will leave the course of extinction. But that would mean: Away from this harsh consolidation course at any price! More time for consolidation, especially in the states of the south! But also expansive impulses in the fiscal policy of those states in Europe that can afford to do so! Germany, for example, already writes budget surpluses. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10016	The next item is Mr Matznetter. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10038	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! It was quite interesting to hear the club people. That is the advantage if we talk twice about the same subject. The most interesting thing was Strache. It rejects the entire Cyprus aid in order to rightfully cancel Austria's participation in the international corporate tax tricks. Group tax privilege is an essential instrument for international corporations to pay less and less taxes. On our indignant call that it was exactly a coalition between ÖVP and FPÖ, which decided to do so, it almost pushed the shame red into his face. This is a good start, ladies and gentlemen, to understand that there is no point in a policy for tax erosion and tax evasion among voters! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, they continue in other areas, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. Sepp Pröll was still on the government bank as the predecessor of our current Finance Minister when we were put on the grey list by the OECD. And it was a clear decision: We must do something about the disclosure of data from tax evaders. We need to renegotiate our agreements. By the way, this was a huge success – and on the other hand, a thank you to State Secretary Arbitrator, who has negotiated this significantly. We've done this in a few years. Who is regularly voting against these agreements in this House? – These are exactly the ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you have become the protective patterns of tax evasions! This was seen on Monday at the Cyprus debate. You've been excited that the oligarchs, these are the ones with over €100 000 in the account to pay. [[Abg. May. Stefan: About the expropriation!]] He complained about it, you clubman! He complained about the patron saint of Russian black money oligarchs. [[Abg. May. Stefan: With you you are from 100 000 € oligarch! Interesting!]] In this respect, the mud red streaches is a good sign and a chance that you will rethink your position. You could never explain to us why you are against the notification in case of tax evasion. In this sense, it is only rigorous and logical that you also reject the Cyprus package, because something very important has happened – I think it has been stupid to my colleague, who has pointed this out –: It was Austria, the Austrian Finance Minister who wanted a list of the trusts there. A good sign! The increase in corporate tax. Mrs Bundesminister, however, one remains: The true tax haven model, the Pirate Bay Cyprus has not been addressed. I already said it on Monday and repeat it again today: The fall of Ireland, where one has left it, has not really been compensated for in Cyprus, because 12.5 percent corporate tax on a country that has twenty-thousands of these tax structures is simply too little. My word message is supposed to be a back-strengthening for you to demand even more than before: No rescue, no help without immediately closing the pirate bays! But we can only demand this, Mrs Federal Minister, if we ourselves are not at the heart of criticism. In this sense, Federal Chancellor Faymann and Vice Chancellor Spindelegger are right: You should start the negotiations on data exchange immediately, without reservation! A perfectly correct positioning, without squeezing on the local boulevard. A clear separation: Domestic: Bank secrecy, the granny book secured – on the other hand abroad: notify! This is a reasonable position of German Chancellors and Vice chancellors! If you also represent them, we can ask Verve for the disclosure, the drying of the Channel Island and do all the things where you are absolutely right, Mrs Federal Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10099	Mr Matznetter, for the accusation that the FPÖ is the “protection patron” of the tax evasioners or the Russian black money oligarchs, I give you a call for order. You kept claiming that, as I could read, in the past. You have also always received a call for order for it. [[Abg. Krainer: This is not an accusation, but a statement of fact!]] [[Calls at the FPÖ.]] The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10142	Mr President. Mr Matznetter, we should always be very careful about this kind of package. I'm not saying: You are the patron saint of the Ordinary Callers, because you are now one who has probably received most or almost most. So we should not do that, and it is also totally inappropriate to put up a whole group as a patron of the tax evasioners. That's not true! There are only a few other reasons why you stand up for banking secrecy in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: I didn't say anything about bank secrecy!]] Yes, and why one can be against these agreements in part. Remember! In the past, there has been a speeding up of the opposition's consent to these tax conventions with several other points, with audits by the Court of Auditors et cetera. All of this didn't come, you didn't keep it all. So I think this allegation is simply wrong. Mrs Finanzminister, I shall start with a positive example: As strong as you are to protect banking secrecy, I would have liked to have experienced you more often. I respect that, too. They are a good service to Austria by very strongly resisting the resistance of other and larger countries to maintaining Austrian banking secrecy, because it has simply grown historically in Austria. This is a peculiarity in Austria that has come to love us. Mr Matznetter, there is no one who believes that this can be separated: “Well, we don’t look back and forth at the little ones.” – You don’t believe that in this little country either. As soon as the big ones are looked at, the little ones will only be looked right and twice. The anonymous savings book has already been abolished, but then the banking secret in Austria has gone smoothly. And that's where we're worried that's happening. I have a greater concern, Mrs Finanzminister, that your struggle, which I find to be in order and respect again, will unfortunately have an expiry date, and the expiry date will probably be the 29th. September. I hope it won't be that way and I won't keep it right, but I'm afraid it'll be like that. At the latest from October, when the National Council election will be over and the next will only come back in five years, They probably surrender, and then the Austrian banking secret will be carried to grave with timps and trumpets. Don't do this, Mrs. Minister! My concern is that this will happen to you and that this will also happen at European level in this area, as in so many other areas before it. Mr Kuzdas said we should not speak of “patients” in Europe. – Of course, this is a patient who is currently at the intensive care station somewhere between the watchcoma and the awakening phase – hopefully awakening phase! - It's fine. The worst thing is that the medicine that is currently being administered is worse than the disease itself, namely the continuing over-indebtedness of the countries, the addition of billions and billions of euros, as we have experienced with Greece I, II and III, and now with Cyprus I. It won't stay here either. I am sure that soon we will discuss Cyprus II, Slovenia I will discuss. Spain I and Portugal I come to us, i.e. help through ESM. So all of this is not very credible. And that is why I really believe that there must be a fundamental change, until – and Josef Bucher has said this at a very early stage – to re-establish this European Union. Yes, there must be a complete re-establishment, which takes note that the current model, this centralist, bureaucratic model, including all its contracts, is no longer to be maintained because it breaks its own requirements. The European Union does not take its own treaties seriously, does not take the Maastricht Treaty seriously, in which it is black and white, that the countries have no responsibility for the debts of others. They do not take the ESM Treaty seriously themselves, because it is, of course, as Mr Rossmann has said, that the ESM will only come to fruition if there is a serious threat to the entire euro area, a fundamental threat, and that is certainly not Cyprus. Everyone knows that, and yet you are generously involved and saved once again by the ESM. We are now living in a rescue union, it is saved on bending and breaking. One saves the other. In the end it'll be called: Who saves the saviour? That will be the question that comes to an end. A Union of Rescue, a Union of Breaking the Treaty, a break of trust, a Union of the Central One State. In addition, this great model of peace union is in place to mention the positive. Only there is the scale relatively far up now when I compare what is on the other side of the scale, namely these many misunderstandings. It is such a typical example of how seriously these state-owned regulators themselves are still taking place, including the Finance Ministers and all the others who are in the European Union. There is a great deal of help in Greece, and then it has to be said that you have to access it. You have to accept liability, but you have to get money, of course. What happened? – Even before all this was decided, the great shipowners from Greece had long been moving their money abroad. At Cyprus it was like that again. That's very interesting. Even before the famous weekend on which this political bank robbery was decided, on which one went to the savers, then on the first weekend still on all, from Friday to Saturday, there has been a remarkable multiplying of the landings of private aircraft in Cyprus the week before. While there on average one to three private aircraft per day landed, this week it was between 300 and 350 landings. Interestingly, people never got out and never got in. Only large packages have been made available. Now you can easily imagine what happened. So even before these decisions have been taken, let alone this 100 000 € border has been withdrawn, all major investors have long withdrawn their capital, all oligarchs, against which Mr Matznetter so much likes to withdraw from the leather. Mrs Minister, how seriously does this European Union take? Obviously, at least the top and elites and all the empires who spent their money there were well informed by a leak, what had been advised in the days before, and brought the money elsewhere with their private aircraft. What remains to you today of these savings books over €100 000 is a march, a layer. That's not how it's done! They really don't exist! There are no longer any big assets on savings books over €100 000. That's what you can maim! Therefore, access to it will also be limited to modest results and will not contribute to the overall solution. The worm is in the system. A European Union is on its way as a spirit racer, who does not take its own treaties seriously and commits a daily break of trust. It would therefore be useful to finally re-establish a Europe of two speeds, including with regard to the currency. The euro and the currency idea, as they were at the beginning, have long failed. These will no longer be possible through billions of euro rescue packages. What it needs is a completely new system that puts the less-favoured countries on the one hand and the stronger ones in a nuclear union on the other. That's the only way it'll work in the end. That'll be the result. By the way, this is something that the BZÖ has told you for years, and the BZÖ has always warned about this development. Therefore: Be brave! At last, be courageous as well as in banking secrecy! Don't press the truth! You can wait on the table there when it comes to defending Austrian taxpayers, who are constantly being bred in there, because that does not lead to anything. We will continue to deal with the next aid packages, and this will be a 'never end story', at the end of which a break-up of this monetary union will stand. This is not only what I am saying as a representative of an opposition party, but all the experts tell you. That will be the result, and we will have been right then, but we will not be proud of it, but we will keep you in mind that you simply have not recognized the current developments.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10191	The next speaker was Mr Hagen. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10212	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I was standing here on Monday at the speaker's desk and have stated that Cyprus aid does not benefit citizens in Cyprus, but banks. The Federal Minister for Finance has contradicted this and declared that the police are being paid, the nurses and so on. So far so good. I didn’t take this off, and when I sat at home at breakfast the next day and looked at the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten”, I noticed an article, and now I want to present it to you a little bit. So that's not what I'm saying, but that's what an internationally recognized economist and philosopher, Dr. Wolfgang Berger, says. Berger says: ‘The euro is specifically attacked’. There's something inside, I quote it, or I'll read it to you, what I noticed. Something I've already told you from the speaker's desk was confirmed by Dr. Berger. Ms. Heidi Rinke-Jarosch, who conducted the interview, said Dr. Berger asked: "The banks are incredibly powerful. In the industrialized countries, every citizen was made dependent on them. Is it possible to withdraw from this system?’ To that end, Dr. Berger replied: "Isn't that perverse? With our taxpayers, the states have saved the banks, and now the global banking and financial sector is extorting these states and imposing on them its rules. In the case of cash, banks will be reduced to what they should be exclusively for: Collect savings and pass them on as loans against collateral, manage accounts, show the investment public ways in which they can obtain their money and enable long-term deposits such as old-age provision. We need the banks to do this. But what we are currently experiencing:” – And now it's coming, Minister, that's what you should listen to me! – "The banks receive money from the European Central Bank to about one percent, thus buying e.g. Greek government bonds with almost 10 percent interest and generate such high profits. And then they force governments to guarantee these government bonds with taxpayers' money. Hardly a euro from rescue comes in Greece. The funds will be transferred directly to the Greek interest rate account at banks in our Central European countries and will not save Greece, but our banks again." This, ladies and gentlemen, says a 72-year-old economist who has to know very well. This interview is highly recommended. It then goes on because the interviewer then asked what he thought might be a solution to these problems, which would be an opportunity to get out of the crisis. There he comes to speak in Iceland. Now I don't know if you remember how this happened in Iceland. This is because it is because Iceland simply argued against the bitter resistance of the international community – International Monetary Fund, ECB, EU Commission – to all banks of the country. Owners as well as investors remained fully on their losses. With the help of Scandinavian, Polish, Russian banks, new banks have been established, and Iceland now has no problem, and that would be the solution. Clubobmann Lugar mentioned this earlier. We should have let the banks go to Cyprus, let the state go, then we would have found a solution. Mrs Fekter, you don't have to reinvent the wheel. Just listen to some good people once! They're not just sitting in the government, they're like sand by the sea. I may also want to return to a good friend of mine, to Mr Thomas Bachheimer. He gave you last autumn before the ESM voting is very clearly written about what it will be like: how the citizens of Europe will be eroded by the ESM, how the money will be pulled out of their pockets, how this will produce a sluggish inflation. Nothing else has happened now – and, Mrs Minister, don't tell me you didn't know anything! You'd have enough opportunity to do something there. That you may know again why this works in our Austrian Federal Government: There we are again in the banking sector/ÖVP, and I can quote from the "Black Paper on Agriculture" from 2010, where it says that the Austrian Raiffeisen banks recorded profits of €1.9 billion together in 2006 to 2008. And now you're holding on to it. How much tax has been delivered to the Fiscus for this purpose? – It was not 10 percent, it was not 25 percent, as it would have been planned, but rather say and write 1 percent of taxes has delivered Raiffeisen to the Fiscus. There, citizens are cut off – every good taxpayer and also Frank Stronach, who pays almost 50 percent of the taxes from the things he has generated in Austria, these people are being shut down – and the Raiffeisenbank can disappear with the help of this federal government and with the help of the ÖVP, this banking sector. Ladies and gentlemen, this should be abolished! More fairness, more honesty, that would be the right way. Mr. Minister, we can tell you how it is.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10281	The next speaker was Mr Grastaur. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10303	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Dr. Matznetter, I think you should be a little more careful when you talk about tax evasions. As far as I know, it caught a former finance minister who had withdrawn taxes, and it was a SPÖ finance minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are happy to be patron saint of the Austrians when it comes to banking secrecy. The banking secret must remain for Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now on Cyprus's rescue problem: On Monday we heard a lot about it and talked about it, today it is a repetition. I will try not to do so, but I would like to refer to examples of Community policy. I have been in the community for a long time. Whenever there was concern of the volunteer fire brigades to acquire new equipment, squirting cars and whatever you need, you have tried to wipe out, and there has been no money. We send indirect € 300 million to Cyprus – money that is surely lost! With these 300 million, many, many wishes of firearms and other wishes in the Austrian field could be fulfilled. It is me, ladies and gentlemen, much, much better, the fire brigades get a little more than we lose the money in Cyprus. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On Monday we heard a lot about the success story of the euro and the EU. What does the success story really look like? – This can be best shown in numbers over and over again. Greece has made a deficit of 10 percent in 2012, ladies and gentlemen. Despite an average debt ratio of € 350 billion, Portugal: 6.4% deficit instead of 4.4%; Spain: more than 10 in the case of shortfalls; Ireland and Cyprus: over 6 percent deficit, 25 million unemployed – we have heard this today. So these are numbers that are disastrous. We have already heard from our Bundesobmann of the article in the “German Economic News” about the Merkel consultant, who says: ‘In no more than five years, the euro will be gone.’ And he says that the savings rate in Europe will not be kept. He also executes – I quote –: “The countries should have the freedom to owe themselves as they wish – provided that they bear the sole responsibility for these debts.” That means they must stand straight for these debts themselves and not get support from other countries. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even worse is an article published by Boston Consulting: 23. April, prophecy will be “European mass expropriation”. I quote again: "The financial situation of the banking sector and the high level of government debt in the euro area are the reasons for this. In addition to a general compulsory levy for investors and savers, citizens should be asked to pay the checkout for massive taxes on assets and inheritances. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] The aim is to finance a debt cut in favour of the Marode Eurozone members from Cyprus to France." No, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, we don't want to! The last horror report that came in is called TAFTA. This will interest farmers, Mr Auer: TAFTA, common internal market with the USA. The title is: Where Americans get appetite, the Europeans will certainly get bad. genetic engineering-treated products are available; environmentally harmful chemicals are allowed; Beef and veal, treated with growth hormones, will land on our plates; the US agricultural companies are pushing out European small farmers; and so on, and so on. No, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want this EU policy to be liberal!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10397	Mr Linder is speaking as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10418	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! We heard it again today, as on Monday: Cyprus's aid is necessary, we must not let the banks argue. The comparison to Lehman Brothers was drawn. The jobs, economic growth in Austria, all these things: if you go a little deeper, you realize that there are really desperate arguments, why we... – Mr. colleague, you do not know that, the depth. [[Abg. Krainer: The depth? How deep is the Afritzer lake?]] [[Abg. Krainer: Why shouldn't I know the Afritzer lake?]] - You don't know the depth. [[Abg. Krainer:... I wasn't yet!]] The same breath also repeatedly points out that we should feel sorry for the Cypriots. If you look into the depths there, you can see how they are much more privileged from the tax than our Austrian taxpayers, that they were much more favourable to us from the interest rates. If Mrs Finanzminister says very proudly today, she is glad that all Member States have made every effort to do everything in their power to help the Cypriots, I still remember how my colleague stupidly said last: Unfortunately, we have the problem that the Member States within the Euro-Union are letting the reins of the reins. That's the problem! We are desperately trying to burden the citizens of Europe, to get the last euro out of the bag, and we are glad that we can help the other Member States. And one looks at how they let the reins slip, how they actually live at our expense and live loosely. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This statement by my colleague, the last one, stupid – that you say: we too are not happy to have to help each time – shows that even the government is slowly beginning to doubt whether this rescue shield was really the all-healer. [[Abg. Head: But this is a willful interpretation!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: You didn't understand that!]] If you hear, Minister of Finance, that the second rescue shield has already been decided, the so-called shadow rescue shield, which is now worth €60 billion to help all countries that are not inside the euro area of the European Union, I think, Mrs Finanzminister: This cannot be done by forcefully helping these Member States permanently, but vice versa, the EU budget in Austria is shortening the support that rural regions are being starved, rural development is hindered and, in the future, agricultural support needs to be reduced. On the other hand, our alpine farmers are being criminalised, they are expected to raise €60 million, but we are looking at how to put another 50 or 60 billion into another rescue screen. [[Abg. We're not watching!]] Mrs Finanzminister, I ask you: Instead of thinking about new lifeguards or agreeing to them, think about the future alternative Schilling – as in Germany! This would be very helpful for us in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10529	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall proceed to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance in accordance with Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, on: [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: He's not here! Where's Strache?]] Allow direct democracy! – Austria’s future lies in Schilling. [[Abg. Krainer: But the colleague Strache...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The applicant is not here!]] I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[14:31:45]] 3rd. Point First reading: Federal Law supplementing the Federal Financial Framework Act 2013 to 2016 by the ceilings for the year 2017 and removing the ceilings for the year 2013 (Federal Financial Framework Act 2014 to 2017) (2251 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10612	We're coming to 3. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Krainer spoke. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10639	The Federal Financial Framework Act, as it always runs for several years, of course also provides a good opportunity to look at what has happened in recent years and what the outlook is like in the coming years. This Federal Government was praised at the beginning of the 2008/2009 crisis. It was clear that there were probably the worst faults, the biggest economic and financial crisis in Europe since 80 years, since the 1930s of the last century. At that time, the Federal Government took action and said: Firstly, the essential thing for us is that we are going through this crisis without being overly reprehensible on the labour market. This means that we see that unemployment remains as low as possible and that as many jobs as possible and as good jobs as possible remain. The The second is that the Federal Government has said: Above all, we want to ensure that growth remains, and we also want to invest in research/development/education, in environmental issues such as those of thermal rehabilitation. That is, we want to invest in the future, we do not want to lose sight of this out of a misconception in a crisis. The third thing the Federal Government has said is: Yes, we take on higher deficits at the beginning of the crisis, but it is clear that after the height of the crisis, when it comes to a recovery phase, we have to come back to a consolidation phase and get back there with the deficits, that we can achieve a balanced budget, a balanced budget between revenue and expenditure. With these three points, the Federal Government started work at the time, I say. One has to say, looking at the results very soberly: This work was very, very successful, especially in international comparison! [[Demonstrative applause of MEPs Head and Jakob Auer.]] If you look at the way Austria stands today, you see that Austria has had one of the highest growth rates in the European Union in almost every year, now the lowest unemployment, the lowest unemployment among young people, at the same time has more jobs than at the beginning of the crisis – not fewer jobs, such as almost all countries in the European Union, but more jobs – and yes, even more in part-time, but also in full-time equivalents; that is, if you expect it as full-time jobs, we have more than at the beginning of the crisis. The majority of countries in the European Union have significantly fewer jobs; Austria is one of the few who have more. We have one of the lowest deficit rates. So we have one of the lowest indebtedness rates and one of the lowest deficit rates of all countries in the European Union. That means, no matter what number you use, Austria is always among the top performers in Europe. It must be said to the Federal Government that it must: This is where good work has been done. It may not have worked all the time, it has not always been everything and everything as the Federal Government has imagined, but in total, this federal government, especially in terms of budget and financial policy, and thus also of economic and labour market policy, must be given a great deal of praise and here the Minister of Finance also express great praise on this issue, because it has worked so well. It's not all worked out well when we look at the year 2012, there's also stuff going on. What has not worked, or not as planned, is the question of pension funds. There was much less money in 2012 than we had budgeted. At the same time, we will lose less money in the following years, because this is overall outcome. But still, it didn't work that way. What has caused us a great deal of headache last year and will also be making headbreaks this year is the cost of bank stabilisation, for bank rescuing. You must not forget one thing: If we didn't have to save banks, last year the deficit would have been almost 1% better than it is this year. It is also true that this year it does not look as if we would come out without new money for the two problem banks, which are fully nationalized. So it's not all great, but it's a really good result. We also need to look at ourselves – when we are talking about budgetary and fiscal policy and fiscal policy – as we have done on the issue of taxation. What we said at the outset is: We must reduce taxes on labour while increasing taxes on capital and assets. That's exactly what happened! At the beginning of the legislative period, we reduced taxes and taxes on labour by about €3 billion, while at the same time increasing taxes and taxes on assets and capital by about €2 billion over the period: Bank charges, new securities, real estate charges, redundancies, i.e. a number of property and property taxes. That is, this path has also been very successful. In the meantime, Austria is a model in the European Union, not only for labour market policy – because we have the lowest unemployment, it is always said by all states: what Austria has done in youth training, in the Youth Training Guarantee, should be a model for the entire European Union – but we are also an example of consolidation, namely consolidation with growth, investment and not just one-sided savings. And we are becoming more and more an example of tax policy. At least at European level, as far as the financial transaction tax is concerned, we already have so many alliance partners that we can enforce them, at least for part of the European Union. One thing, I think, will work for us. The situation we have in Austria that taxes and taxes on work are too high and on capital and assets too low is not something that applies only to Austria. This problem exists in a large part of the European Union. We will also be exemplary here that taxes on work in Austria, but also in the European Union, must be reduced and capital and assets must make a fair contribution to the financing of the states. Many steps have been taken; there are still many, for example an inheritance and gift tax for millions of heirs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10723	Next speaker: Mr Auer. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10745	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There are some statements from Mr Krainer – that is no question at all – but I really have my problems on the question of more taxes on assets. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is: If I want to acquire wealth, I have to work relatively much first in order to buy with the savings property, whether that is a reason, a house, a property or something else. That I worked a lot – whether as an unself-employed person or as a self-employed person – because I was disciplined before should be punished for doing something, I don't quite understand. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are saying a very clear no to such ideas. I would like to come back to one more point. At the last item on the agenda, Mr Hagen has made the claim that Raiffeisen had profited €1.6 billion in several years and was paid only 1% of it. He has shown how much tax performance his upper captain Stronach had achieved. I think only for the spectators at home in front of the television screens and for the listeners here in this house that Raiffeisen paid € 760 million in taxes last year, i.e. € 570 million from the banks and € 190 million from the investments – so that this is clarified. One can say that it's too little, that's too much, whatever. I'm just holding on: 570 million € in a year, in other words last, so that this is correct. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: paid 24 million!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have the first reading of the Federal Financial Framework Act from 2014 to 2017, thus ultimately presenting the budget framework for the coming years in general. As always, this is an assessment of the expected revenue, the expected expenditure, as estimated by the Federal Government by Mrs Finanzminister, the State Secretary. We will have the opportunity here within the Committee on Budgets to deal with the actual facts and the documents. The fact is: We must continue to ensure that the economic priorities with this budgetary framework, with this financial framework, continue to ensure employment impulses for the future. In recent years, these have led to a look at Austria in Europe, because we are better there than de facto all other European countries, definitely those of the EU-27. Of course, the question must be asked as to how the planned budget deficit will continue in the future. I am always happy to see the contributions made by colleagues in the opposition. My colleague, who I personally very much appreciate in recent years, said that everything was nothing, everything was Makulatur, back to the start. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Is also a Upper Austrian!]] You have to be right about this and that, because that would never happen. Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the outcome of the last year, you will also have to admit, Mr Grastaur, that the budget deficit has improved significantly, even though increased expenditure on banking aid from certain banks in Austria was necessary, that it is clearly better. [[Abg. Bucher: Why?]] It is also clear that the areas of employment, social security, health policy in Austria are much better than in many European countries, that Austria – thank God – has a very different social policy that Austria has a different economic policy. That is why many look to Austria. But they also look at Austria because we were able to install an efficient budgetary law here. That too is undisputed. [[Abg. Bucher: Why don't you want this in Lower Austria?]] Austria is not only a model example in the hard facts, but also in many other areas how to develop something positive can find the right balance between savings and efficient expenditure. [[Abg. Petzner: Do you believe what you're saying?]] – Mr Petzner, go inside and see that you are putting your BZÖ organisation in order, because you have a lot of work to do, because in recent years you have been hit by a decent swing! Their deficit has become much greater than that of the Federal Budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that even though the economy has become somewhat weaker, it has contributed to the positive results. If the economy is 50 percent also a matter of mood, and this is claimed by experts, then we should try to develop a positive mood, an optimistic mood for the economy for which employees are employed, because we are now also a country that depends on the quality of exports. [[Abg. Petzner: How about reducing taxes?]] If six out of ten jobs are directly or indirectly dependent on export, on export performance and we are able to continue to be competitive on the international markets, Mr Petzner, in fact able to compete, then the question arises as to how the opposition can be said that Austria is on the verge of bankruptcy that debt is disastrous, as is the budget deficit, unemployment, youth employment. – The facts look different. I already know that the location determines the position. I also know years of opposition, and everything is seen a little more critically. [[Call BZÖ: When was that?]] - That's a little longer! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] But I also know the years of opposition. [[Abg. Grosz: That was in the last millennium!]] – Mr Grosz does not know everything that has already happened here in this House, and he is still too young, so there is no experience and knowledge. But you can still learn that, that's completely free. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's where the methuselem claps in the first row!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Some speak of hyperinflation and other things. The fact is that inflation in Austria has been lower since we were in the European Union. The fact is that we are quite positive. It is possible that this could be even better, that is undisputed, but it is fact that we are a country that can be seen – thanks to the economic power of the Austrian economy, thanks to the competence of the workers and thanks to an excellently managed federal government that has put in place timely measures to envy us others.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10914	The next speaker was Mr Grastaur. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e10936	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I am not willing to admit that in recent years there has been a lot of success. I'm just saying, it's different on the paper: Agreements with Switzerland, Liechtenstein, the Financial Transaction Tax – I have not seen any money yet. It is also on paper that 4,000 officials are less likely. The merger of district courts in the field of justice and reforms in the care sector were achieved. I do not agree to take note of this. That is all right, it would also be bad if nothing had happened, Mr Auer. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] We should look at the starting point. She looks like this: Today we have government debt of € 227 billion and debt of 73 percent of gross domestic product. State liability of €120 billion will be added, then the outsourced debt that is not known – I have to say that because I know that there are a lot of damage in the communities – but it is definitely €35 billion. And in 2012 we made a deficit of €7 billion instead of €11 billion planned. This is much better, but in 2012 the entire state made a further €9 billion deficit. To speak of success, Mr Auer, that is grotesque! 7 billion € we have made loss, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] These are in old currency to the 100 billion good Austrian schilling. This is a disaster, I think there should be a plus there and nothing else! For 2017, we are talking about the federal financial framework today, a small plus, a surplus is planned. That would be positive, but I have to say whether it comes, is very uncertain. Last week, I read in the newspaper: This budget is not a plan, it is a continuation of a massive robbery. The assets of the savers are destroyed by negative real interest rates. Cold progression distorts large portions of income. There is no mention of a reorganisation of state finances. The growth on pump is prolonged, and there is a lack of courage to research and shorten the expenditure radically. We still suffer from the thumb screws of the savings packages 2011 and 2012. I remember: increasing banking charges, mineral oil tax, tobacco tax, air tickets; Reduction of family allowances; removal of the multi-children's allowance; huge intervention has been made in pensions – the reduction of pensions by 1 per cent over two years is €3 billion, where the government budget is reduced, with pension funds being reorganised; Real estate tax € 2 billion. In total, we have to learn 50 billion € from these two load packages. On the track are all the major, really essential reform measures that we repeatedly advocate, and so I do it again today: Health care reform – the fourth most expensive system in the OECD! –; Education reform – second highest educational expenditure per student, but poor education, see PISA results – competence confusion between the federal, state and local authorities; sustainable through-forestation of the funding system – there are €7 billion in reserves; Structure in the public sector. Does Austria really need ten legislators? Does Austria really need the brusque Federal Council in this form? [[Abg. Grosz: Let's save the dungeon!]] Do we really need 2,500 communities? Do we really need a district captain in every district? Can't you put them together? These would be the major steps to be taken: a real pension reform, an increase in the retirement age from 59 years to 65 years; incentive models for older workers to continue to employ them; To reduce excessive migration in order to protect our social network; Summary of social security institutions, not more than two; reduction of additional wage costs in order to make the economic location attractive again; Reduction of administrative and bureaucracy costs. We need to see that the tax rate, which is now 43 percent and is more than exhausted, is below 40 percent. [[Abg. Krainer: How was that 2001?]] The Austrians work for almost half a year only for the state. That's got to tell you something! And the Austrians pay more taxes compared to Switzerland by €20 billion per year. Get out of this euro case! We talked about it today. No more taxes on euro-marode countries! Greece's and Cyprus's aid packages are lost on their return. Austria has developed overweight over the last 30 years and has become chubby, has put on too much administrative bacon, and it is important to dismantle it again. [[Abg. Singer: “Smooth” is sweet!]] But there is a need for a power act and also a mandate from the voters. That means, stressors and preventers, disabled people must be selected and all energy and all means must be used in the sense of a successful future for subsequent generations! According to the Court of Auditors, IHS, WIFO and Convention there are savings potentials of €10 billion annually. These are to be lifted, these would be the great steps! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e11019	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 8 minutes of speech are planned, but we only have more than 7 minutes, since we have to interrupt for the urgent request. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e11056	Mr President. High house! I listened to the speakers from the government groups: There's almost no leaf in between, with all these hymns of praise. There is a single difference, the inheritance tax is a thorn in the eye to my colleague Auer – he is not in the hall now. But perhaps the ÖVP should go a little bit inside and remember their fathers again, Raab, Kamitz, for example, the famous Raab Kamitz course. Not everyone in this House will remember, I do. [[Abg. Bucher: Of course!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] I've heard a little about it. But what was one of the constitutional principles of the tax system at the time? – Taxation according to the principle of performance, and it was obvious at that time that one had taxed assets. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: tax rate!]] It was obvious at the time that one had an inheritance tax. It was obvious that one had a progressive income tax. And of that, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, please say goodbye. This was once the consensus of society in this country, and today it is the crazy Greens and the mad Social Democrats who demand inheritance tax – in view of alarming data on the distribution of assets that we have recently been served by the Austrian National Bank or in the European context by the European Central Bank. But of course it is also sung a lot. Jan Krainer has said that we have the highest employment or one of the highest employment rates in Europe, and that is not true everywhere, and we have the lowest unemployment rate. – Yes, that is true, we have the lowest unemployment rate, but please do not forget to say that this is the highest unemployment rate since 1945, and that is alarming. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Since 2008, unemployment has increased dramatically as a result of the banking and economic crisis in Austria. And now I come to the real subject, to the federal financial framework: How, for example, does this federal financial framework deal with the rise in the unemployment rate? Does he take that into account? He doesn't take that into account? – Not at all, because if you want to characterise this federal financial framework by anything, then you could do that best with the formula copy and paste, so copy and insert it. In other words, for the years 2014 to 2016, the data from the previous year's financial framework has been taken over completely unchanged. [[Call: Unbelievable]] Although we have a changed economic situation, we have changed developments in employment, we have decided on a flat rate in the tax field, we have the higher employment figures, all of which would have to have an impact on revenue in the tax field, but gross and net tax revenue is the same as in the old financial framework in these years. And for the year 2017, the value of the year 2016 is usually simply added. Mrs Finanzminister, just as you have presented this federal financial framework here, one can do something from a well-intentioned instrument in the context of the budgetary reform, degrading it to something that is a daunting instrument. But the objective of the Federal Financial Framework is to formulate strategic objectives. Ladies and gentlemen! In this federal financial framework, I do not find a single strategic objective, perhaps apart from the fact that it is important to achieve in 2017 in line with the Fiscal Pact and the debt brake in the budget – yes, but that is at best an intermediate goal. The classic objectives of economic policy are known to be different: Economic growth, stable prices, low unemployment rates, fair distribution, and then one can also achieve environmental goals, but I actually do not find much of that in the whole. The far-reaching reforms are missing. As my colleague has boldly said, structural reforms have been undertaken: A little bit has happened, but the major reforms still stand out whether this is the administrative reform, whether it is the reform of the school administration, but it is also a reform in the entire tax system. Many other reforms stand out. There are shifts from areas which generate little growth and which are less forward-looking, to areas where future investment is promoted. Unfortunately, I cannot discover all of this. Unfortunately, I cannot discover that this federal financial framework is justly spreading the burden of the banking and financial crisis. This leads me back to the inheritance tax. I can't discover either – and this has been declined here many times, I can't hear it at all anymore – that there is a relief of the factor work. – Yes, when will we finally be so far as to achieve a relief of the factor work? To the path of budgetary policy itself: So I think it's already a poverty certificate, Mrs Finanzminister, that You dare at all to present to this House a federal financial framework and a budget path, which is different from what the budget path of last year was. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] I would like to continue if we start the negotiations on this item on the agenda again.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e11139	Mr President, I shall now interrupt your speech and you will come back to it. I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 3 of the agenda, so that the required procedure for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:31]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Josef Bucher, colleague and colleague to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning: Lower taxes – clear reduction instead of cold progression (2257/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e11172	We are now entering the urgent procedure for the self-employed application 2257/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e11280	I give the floor to Mr Bucher as an applicant for urgent procedure. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e11302	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Today we from the BZÖ want to deal with a phenomenon that affects very many Austrians. But as far as they are concerned, the citizens and, above all, taxpayers are so angry that for many years we have not been able to change this catastrophic and, above all, unfair tax system in such a way as to make it performance-friendly and fair as it should be for a modern economic location. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! If you are always very proud of the public and feel that you have managed to shape the budget in some way, unfortunately, you do not always say to God why you have succeeded and what wrong developments we have in the tax system, which are responsible for these extra incomes through taxes. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] This pride you are always developing, and the praise you always get today from Mr Krainer – I am very surprised, Mr Krainer, that you have promised the Minister of the Federal Government that she has managed to achieve such a high level of tax revenue. - Great! Great! A fantastic achievement of the Federal Minister! [[Abg. Krainer: But you listened badly!]] So this, Mrs Finanzminister, is a deceitful pride, because you are least responsible for it, but the hard-working Austrians are responsible for it, who have only done these taxes with their laborious work. [[Abg. Krainer: Listen!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This system error in the Austrian tax system is responsible. And on this system mistake, called cold progression, I would like to look a little deeper together with you today, so that everyone also knows what it is about this so-called cold progression, which for the Federal Minister is a very random error in the tax system – a very random error! – is, because each year, the Minister of Finance takes in €500 million by means of the cold progression alone. [[Abg. Grosz: (pointing at the shakers of SPÖ and ÖVP) With the remaining stocks of red and black!]] She doesn't have to contribute to that. It does not need to turn on the control screw at all, since it does not need to take care of the control system at all. It's money that's bubbling on its own and coming in at the door. In the previous year, wages – only to illustrate – rose by 4.3 percent on average, all wage classes combined. The wage tax has almost doubled and of course also developed twice as fast up as the wages. [[Abg. Krainer: The wage tax has not doubled!]] [[Abg. Krainer: But she didn't double!]] That's the phenomenon we're standing before. And this is based on the following system: Even if a person earns more, that is, if he receives more wages from the employer, he falls into the next higher tax class. It therefore pays more wage tax, i.e. higher wage tax, higher social security, and in the end it may be that it gets out as much or even less out than before. [[Abg. Krainer: Social security is not possible!]] This is the phenomenon of cold progression when calculating inflation. [[Abg. Krainer: How's it going?]] Then, to your calm down, I bring a few more examples of the Chamber of Workers. To calm you down, I would like to mention examples of the Chamber of Workers so that you can also be made clear. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's a mistake!]] So although there is no increase in the wage tax, there is an increase in revenue through the cold progression. And the reason for this is the tax system, which, if taken into account the general price, is responsible for it. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Start again!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, with every increase in wages, the state first benefits, first of all the Minister of Finance. It benefits from any increase in wages. It is not said that a wage increase for the individual who has negotiated it with the boss is actually lucrative. It may also be that it makes the citizen poorer, that is, not only that he deserves as much as before, but even makes him poorer. In the previous year, it was calculated that only by the cold progression the tax and tax rate of course also moved up automatically. By 0.34 percent, the cold progression alone increased the tax and tax rate by 1.1 percent for single earners with child. Single earners with child pay higher taxes through the cold progression. And that is the cold family policy of the ÖVP! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That doesn't leave us cold. This cold progression cannot let anyone cold, which seriously means helping families in our country. That is why we want to make this clear to you. [[Abg. Krainer: Incorrect text!]] And there I almost call a newspaper as a witness to the “Kurier ” stand. It is a pity that the colleague Auer is not there, who is not so far away from the “Kurier” as Raiffeisen-Employees or as Raiffeisen-Obmann [[Abg. Dr. Cap: As a reader!]] [[Abg. Hear: I don't know down there!]] In the “Kurier” a net income certificate has been issued in recent years. The net income of the Austrians has developed as follows. – We do not doubt the “Kurier”. [[Abg. Krainer: Why? What's the source?]] Or do we doubt that? Do we doubt that? – So I don’t doubt this now, but I’m going to present it as proof. In 2010, net income trends were so marked that they amounted to minus 1.1 percent. In 2011, the Austrians earned less than 2% due to inflation, plus/minus zero in 2012. And the expectations for the year 2013 are minus 0.1 percent. [[Abg. Krainer: 2009? Why don't you read about 2009?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (on Abg. Cluesting Krainer, who in the first row next to Abg. Dr. Cap is sitting) Madam President! Didn't we say, intermediate calls from our own Patz?! He's standing in front of him and roaring in!]] That is, the net wages are already going down again. And what we always hear from the agitation of red and black is that people in Austria are getting better and better. This, ladies and gentlemen, is proof that the politics of red and black in Austria is less and less in the wallet at the end of the month and at the end of the year. And that is the reality that we want to bring to your attention. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Krainer, during my speech you can call me in, which shows no effect. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Why not?]] Now a source of the Chamber of Workers. The Chamber of Workers has examples on its homepage. These examples of how cold progression affects individuals look as follows: A retailer earns grossly 1 132 € per month. That means, without a cold progression, without this cold expropriation by the Federal Minister, she would have had 124,28 € more in the wallet. An employee with a gross wage of €2,573 would have € 136 more. Where are the workers' chamber representatives of the Reds? Where are they? [[Abg. Dolinschek: Where are the trade unionists?]] Make such great studies, make such great calculations – but at the end of the day an interesting defense of yours is shown here in the High House as regards the interests of taxpayers: You cash your meeting fees in the Chamber of Workers, but here you are silent when it comes to representing the interests of the workers in Austria. Where are you all? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now even the crane is mute. Now even the crane doesn't say anything about it. This is the SPÖ's employee policy! Well, you've taken it far! You are double cashiers, but you are no longer effective and effective representatives of the people. That's reality. It's a shame, really! [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] So we come to the gross net calculator. This is evident to each of us on the website of the Federal Ministry of Finance, the gross net calculator of the Minister of Finance. Just go to this homepage and look at that, I can only say it. I have now entered: a pensioner who receives € 1 050 per month, a small pensioner. Mrs Finanzminister, I will give it to you then, it is [[Keeping an up-to-date document]] Your gross net calculator on your homepage. So: €1,050. This pensionist is currently not paying a wage tax. Now there is an increase: 1 050 € plus 10 cents. 1 050 € plus 10 cents – give You're the one that gets out of there! He then suddenly pays €82.38 wage tax. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Incredible!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's a joke! That's a shame!]] He gets 10 cents more and pays 82 € wage tax?! – That’s “great”! The issue is written to you in the face, but that's the reality. You should deal with this once – and not with your coalition rhetoric, which doesn't work at all and doesn't do anything at all! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If such a pensioner looks at this and then gets to read: “Where does my tax-euro flow?” I mean, that is the pure insolence, Mrs Finanzminister! – You can write the answer to the right: to Greece, to Cyprus, to Portugal, to Spain, to the banks. Letter You're fat on it! But don't let him answer that question yourself. Do you have the courage to tell the affected pensioner where his 82 € flow! – In the banking sector and not in meaningful, economic-promoting measures or tax reductions here in our country. That's the reality! Therefore, my request to you, Mrs Finanzminister: Finally give the Austrians their hard-earned tax money, on which they also have a right! That would be decent and honest. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Do not always talk about tax reforms and tax concepts and tax reform commissions. Where are they? They've been talking about tax reform commissions for months and years. No one knows: Who's in there? Where do they go? Is there any of these? – There is no information. And I'll tell you: There is also no tax reform commission. That's reality. In the OECD comparison, take a look at how the industrialized countries are! It looks like in 17 out of 30 OECD countries, these inflation gains are returned to people. It is legitimate to demand that. If 17 countries do so within the OECD, why can we not do this in Austria, Mrs Finanzminister, where you have wrongly collected this money, and are proud of the Austrians' tax performance? This is a legitimate claim, because it is more and more about the middle class. The middle class is impoverished, it is the bearing pillar of our economy. If the middle class no longer works, then the structure of our economy no longer works, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of every euro earned, 48.9 cents of taxes have now been paid to the Minister of Finance. In the OECD comparison, ladies and gentlemen, it is only 35.6 cents. Austria is a "National Park High Tax", a highest tax country. That is why we need a Minister of Finance who is acting, and not a Minister of Finance, who is constantly delaying decisions until the election. We need tax relief, because if you look at the current tax system, it is also not acceptable for a SPÖ that in the unserious tax system, the service providers benefit from the highest contribution base of social security. The server servants benefit! How can this take a social democracy?, I wonder. The small and medium incomes are bleeding, and the attendants are unscrupulous. Yes, where is solidarity? Where is the justice that the SPÖ always speaks of? . I do not see justice, nor do I see solidarity with those who need it in this economic situation in Austria, where it is a question of leaving people more net in the wallet, so that the economy can be fueled and boosted again. This is still the better and best measure for a growth policy in our country, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we have long been convinced, Mrs Finanzminister: In the short term, you can correct this error in the tax system by returning these €500 million to the people, so that an economic engine can be established in Austria and the economy is back to growth. - That's the first one. The The second is to create a tax system that will finally correct these ambiguities and, above all, these blasphemies and lead to a fair, simple and reliable tax system. And that can only be a flat tax, ladies and gentlemen! Only a flat tax corrects these inequalities and leads us to a performance-friendly and fair tax system that meets Austria's economic location. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, Mrs Finanzminister, our call goes in this direction: Not to promise constantly and not constantly to talk about thinking that you feel that the tax system in Austria is unfair, that the taxes in Austria are too high, but at last you are acting! And if you don't act, you tell me why you don't act. Tell us what it is about! Who are the brakes, who are the evil ones? Then we'll talk to them. But if you want to come back to honesty, tell us what it fails to do. Otherwise, you'll be left at the end.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e11675	On the issue of an opinion, Mrs Bundesminister für Financien, Dr. Fekter in word. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e11697	Madam President. High house! Mr Bucher, you have just asked me not to think, but to act. – I can’t live up to this wish, because I want to think about it before I deal. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and congratulation with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bookers: The taxpayers don't have much to think about!]] [[Abg. Krainer: (in the direction of Abg. Bucher) Should be beneficial sometimes!]] With regard to the priorities set by this Federal Government, I would like to point out once again that the path of consolidation is currently a priority. We have been interrupted in the middle of the debate on our medium-term financial framework until 2017. And this financial framework clearly shows a tendency: that we are stable in order to have a surplus in 2017, and that we are thinking very intensively about how we can then relieve taxpayers. [[Abg. Bookers: You're making more and more debts! The debt mountain is rising!]] Currently, in the present situation, in the current budgetary situation, it is not yet quite possible to distribute sugars, and I am looking for the High House not to come into that water that we are on 24 July. In September 2008, we were in a situation where we then needed a savings package. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But send money to Greece and Cyprus!]] That may be prevented in this election year! Your request, Mr Bucher, is a little focused on the fact that we already need to distribute as much sugar as possible. But, Mr. Bucher, you're perfectly right: Our tax system is anti-performance, socially unfair and has significant weaknesses. Awesome! [[Abg. Riepl: That's the problem!]] All the experts agree on this, that's not really something new. The problem begins with the fact that our tax rate is very high; only Denmark has such a high tax rate as we do. Nowhere else in Europe is there that the first tax rate, which takes effect, is already 36.5 percent. [[Abg. Bucher: The song of the action is already going on again, is not being done!]] Secondly, We've got a medium-sized hump. The middle class is over-proportionally burdened. In other words, the medium-sized person carries the tax burden, he receives fewer transfers, because it always means that there will be no transfers from a certain income, and some taxes we have will meet those who have a medium or higher income. Progression – that is right – also has a relatively rapid effect. And in the case of the service providers, our tax system is at all the most robust in the European comparison. In no other country in Europe, the 50 percent peak tax rate is already at €60 000! [[Abg. Krainer: Not with us either!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there is nowhere else! [[Abg. Krainer: Not with us either!]] In France, for example, there is the so-called rich tax, the peak tax rate of 45 percent only from half a million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] In Germany there are 45 percent only from € 240 000. [[Abg. Bucher: Why do you explain this to me? Why do you explain this to me? We know everything. You're supposed to tell us why you're not doing anything!]] We are very, very prudent in taxpayers' wallets. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why don't you get rid of the cold progression?]] It is therefore also my concern that we should reduce this burden on people. [[Abg. Bucher: Do something!]] We need a system in this regard – and you mentioned it correctly; thank you for listening to me – as I always say: easier, less, more powerful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsböck.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have 560 exceptions in our wage and income tax system. The Court of Auditors has only recently criticised this. These 560 exceptions are so-called tax privileges for very many groups. There are many of us worth something. There's something worth the fire brigade, the church is worth something to us, the journalists are worth something to us, Mrs. Kittner. That means that all the sparks have an exception – only the children do not. [[Abg. Krainer: Children's deposits aren't there?]] And I think that is the most socially unjust in this whole system! We must take the children into account! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Do something!]] [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck: Are you in opposition?]] [[Abg. Bucher: 25 years in government, the ÖVP!]] An example: Germany – I only call Germany in comparison – also has transfer services, as we do. Germany also provides infrastructure, kindergartens, care facilities, as we do. It's all the same as with us. But the countries where we are always measuring – Germany, France, Sweden, Holland, Denmark – have tax relief in addition to the transfer services and the care facilities, so that those who raise the children who are the taxpayers of tomorrow are tax relief. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] For example, Germany has 7 000 € per child, and we could already focus on that. [[Abg. Singer: Why don't you do it?]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I am pleased when these proposals are supported by many when they are on the table. [[Abg. Bucher: When?]] I look forward to their being supported. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: When will that be?]] What's not going on, ladies and gentlemen, although it sounds tempting, is the so-called flat rate, the flat tax. [[Abg. Scheibner: You asked for them yourself!]] [[Abg. Bucher: You wanted the flat tax yourself! A good thing!]] The flat tax would be the biggest tax relief for millionaires, because the millionaires now pay us 50 percent, with Mr Bucher's flat tax, Stronachs and all the others would pay only 25 percent. And that's not the picture the ÖVP has in mind. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have suggested it yourself!]] We already confess that those who can do more also contribute more. But how much this more is, we have to look at it. By the way, our house has carried out calculations of the flat tax model, and since I know that the flat tax according to Bucher’s model costs 20 billion, I have no more sympathy for it. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have suggested it yourself!]] A tax that costs us 20 billion and mostly only relieves the millionaires is not the model I imagine. [[Abg. Booker: Is a fool!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I have always said that I want to have it properly, want it easier, and want to relieve the families. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] But I never spoke of a blind acceptance of flat tax, Mr. Bucher. You won't find a quote from me. [[Abg. Scheibner: The model you suggested!]] [[Abg. Bucher: We can take the proof!]] Now to your adaptation to the inflation you propose. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I have already mentioned that we have in the meantime a rather complex tax system with a wealth of exceptions, with a thicket, which, I admit, makes the profession of tax advisors, economic trustees and accountants flourish, no question at all. But it's not supposed to be that only more experts can see what's inside our tax system. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: But it is now!]] If we were to look closely at an automatic inflation adjustment now, we would first have to make ourselves clear about the following: What type of inflation adjustment? What shopping cart? What shopping cart do we draw on for which population groups? – That would be the first question. The second is: If we just adjust the rate to inflation, what are we going to do with the amounts of deposits, with those amounts where we are making it easier? Are we going to adjust these to inflation? If we turned only on one screw, but not on the other, we would have more than 50 such amounts in the Income Tax Act, which will then be adjusted according to inflation. Just think of the single-earner, the single-earner discount, the limits on the profit-free amount, the pendulum fee that we have just changed. That is, this adjustment would then, if you really take it seriously, lead to further complication of our system, and the thickness would be even more opaque. [[Abg. Bucher: This is happening in 17 countries!]] And if this were automatic, no one could say, above all, how high the amounts will be in the tax law next year, because the detailed inflation rate is always fixed in the following year. [[Abg. Bucher: How do the other countries do this?]] That is to say, this proposal does not lead to simplification, does not lead to more justice, but simply goes out of the belly or, better to say, it is being discussed similarly in other countries, it has simply emerged in such a way that newspaper reports on other debates have been written off. Well thought-out, Mr. Bucher, it's not. And that's why I ask you to take into account that I want to think about it first before I handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e12201	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. The total speaking time per club is 25 minutes. Mr Ing. Westenthaler is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e12228	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! It's so nice, the revenge of the journalist is the archive. Today it is not the revenge of the journalist, but the opposition. I have now looked at it quickly, and it is relatively easy with the technical possibilities today to transfer you here immediately, to have said the untruth. If you claim here today that you would never have demanded the Flat Tax, and damn it in soil and soil, then enough Their long-term memory seems to be limited to 2. ==References====External links== August 2011 I read here – I am amazed! [[Abg. ==References== She asked for it on August.]] – The following: Title, prior notification of ‘NEWS’: ‘The Tax Revolution’. “Fekter’s Minister of Finance” introduce “will ‘flat tax’”. - Oh! [[Oh, call at BZÖ.]] I quote: "If it goes to Maria Fekter, then the Austrian tax system will be easier, easier to understand and more comprehensible in the future. In concrete terms, the Minister of Finance plans to put income tax and social security contributions together and introduce a kind of flat tax.” “Tax experts welcome these plans”, the BZÖ, which we said earlier, points out that the idea of flat tax comes from him. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: This is the Bruckner model! We never supported the Bruckner model! Only the Lord Bruckner, God has blessed him!]] You've taken over our demand and today you don't want to know anything about it. We do not know why this is the case, but you have a very short long-term memory, my dear Mrs. Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And if you claim that this flat-tax model, which Josef Bucher and our experts have jointly worked out, actually only relieves the rich, then I will give you this booklet, because if you still have not understood it, here is our model of a flat tax, and this relieves the Austrian households on average by around €700 a year. This is a real tax relief, Mrs Minister, look at this! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[The speaker presented the booklet to Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] They stand out here – what is happening here is actually inconceivable – and count everything that does not work, which is bad, from child policy to family policy to the middle class, which is so burdened. [[Abg. Grosz: Do nothing about it!]] Mrs Minister, what you have delivered here today is a political self-esteem that you have made here in Parliament. That's the truth. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] The same applies here, however, as in tax law, Mrs Minister: A political self-advertisement is only valid if you supply active repentance. – You did not deliver them today, because you did not tell us that taxes are reduced, that this madness of cold progression has finally been abolished, that family tax policy after many years is finally to be made fairer, that a flat tax model is to be introduced, and that Austrian workers are finally to be burdened off massively, rather than the money being donated to Greece and Cyprus. You should've delivered that right now! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Thus, this today's political self-addiction is not penitentiary, but it will be punished, namely on 29 March. September, by the voters, I am convinced that they will not be allowed to do so. [[Abg. Bucher: She's intimidating!]] Mrs. Minister, you have spoken to Mr Bucher, but Mr Bucher has meant – and that is the real quote – that you should not always think and do nothing. That was what Mr Bucher said and meant. They're always thinking about something, but it doesn't matter. And if you say, first think, then act!, then I wonder when you were actually thinking about the European Union when you wanted to make us know from this government bank that this is going to be a business with Greece for the Austrians. How long have you been thinking about it? How long have you been thinking before you put the Cyprus package on the table, where you yourself were there for at least three days, when it was determined that even the small savers should be driven into the parade and there a expropriation of the savings book is to take place? Haven't you thought about it for so long? This is remarkable, Mrs Minister, and that is why your opinion on today's request is simply unsatisfactory. It is dissatisfying because this devil's work of cold progression is actually something that comes close to a cold, sluggish expropriation. All trade unionists have been sitting there for years, always the same ritual, saying: A great success in wage negotiations, another wage increase!, and then the people tell me: The trade unionists always tell us on television what great wage increases they have achieved, and then I get my wage bill, my bill, but I don't think that's what it's all about! – The answer is, of course, on the table: because the person concerned has already slipped into a higher level by this increase, through the cold progression! And why “cold” progression? – Because he gets less because he gets less of gross because he falls into a higher level of taxation. That's the fact. In addition, there is still inflation, which eats up the increase in wages. This not only eats up the increase in wages, but it also eats up the purchasing power, which eats up the power of people to afford something. That's perfectly clear. And this, above all – as I look back towards SPÖ – is disproportionately burdened by medium- and smaller-income earners, also quite clearly, because there is simply a steady rise in border tax rates, a steady steep increase in border tax rates, and one is just about how Mr. Bucher has envisioned the example of the pensioner, who is not present at 1 050 € and has to pay 10 Eurocents more suddenly than 80 €. Is that fair? Is this the social justice of social democracy? I don't think so. That's why we propose – that's not exciting, Mrs. Minister – that's not a world-moving new thing, but actually something normal: Let's make the system of rolling wheels what the tax rates are. That means that this will, of course, be adapted to inflation. Mr Krainer, also a thinker, has been thinking about this since 2008, we have heard, now we have 2013, perhaps we will come in 2040 when he is in retirement, on how it goes. [[Abg. Bucher: He still thinks!]] But we do not have time that long, because in the meantime, the workers are losing their money, and we do not want to do so. We want to protect workers from this cold progression. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Minister, just for information, because you also mentioned France: In France and Canada, there is already this index adjustment of tax rates, and in Switzerland there has been an annual adjustment of tariffs since 2010 as we demand them. So nothing new. This sluggish tax increase, which is really unfair, has finally been eliminated. I think you could put an appropriate model on the table before the election, and you could finally do something. At last you could do something – but I suppose you don't want it at all because you don't have it. With this cold progression, you take the Austrians away €500 million a year because you need them. You need them for the Cyprus rescue, for the ESM, for Greece, for the banks, and therefore this is a welcome bread that you cash there. [[Abg. Bucher: For the banks]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Hypo in Carinthia!]] That's why you don't want to change it, I'll put it to you. They do not want to stop this robbery against the Austrians' wallets and are now already massively criticized by many commentators – I am saving myself from getting closer to them now – across all the newspapers. I'll read you one. In the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, which has already been mentioned today, Mr. Koller writes about it – I quote: “In truth, a raid takes place through the pockets of the Austrians. And in the style of professional pocket thieves” – Koller, who writes this, by the way, is a journalist who has been awarded it – “the public hand is so skillful in cutting out the citizens that they don’t get anything at all at all.” That's the truth. And that's the commoner and the lessor in the history that people don't get along with anything for the time being, but that they're precipitated to get pay increases and pay increases that they really don't really cash. That is something that really is for the recovery, which is really horrendous and is a part of it, Mrs. Minister. The Austrians have a right to a tax reform, they have at least a right to make this index adjustment in connection with the cold progression, because they have already experienced enough burdens: 13 Tax increases alone in the current government period. We know that has already been proved, and we have told you that too. We have the highest tax burden, the energy prices are at a high level, we have the price that is actually much higher, because the basic foods and basket parts of daily life have increased much more than, for example, the prices of computers. Most people won't be so upset when computer prices drop and the inflation rate goes down. We've got the cold progression. We now pay almost more on savings books than we get at all. If you take this low interest rate and you still deduct the KEST from it of 25 percent, then saving is already unattractive – between brackets: Maybe you'll come around the corner and take it away. That's what's going on now. And we still have a wild growth and a flowering spring, which is the result of the fees, even then the public hand is closed again, Mrs. Minister. This is not a policy of tax reduction, it is not a policy of discharge, as we imagine it to be. Place your cards on the table before choosing it! Be so fair and say She told the Austrians what happened to her after the election. That would be fair. Finally, relieve people by abolishing the cold progression, which is arrears we no longer want to accept.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e12393	Mr Krainer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e12415	Madam President. The urgent request is concerned with the cold progression. This is really a point you can and must discuss, namely: How does tax performance change over a few years, how do the different taxes change? Where there is a progressive taxation, the tax is growing more dynamic – that is the one group. The second group is, for example, sales tax. This growth is about proportional to inflation and economic growth. Then there are other taxes, which grow weaker than economic growth, weaker than inflation, sometimes not at all. In particular, property taxes remain essentially nominal, such as the basic tax. This means that you have a very different course of control groups. That's just a technical question. However, this is not an invention of this federal government, but I think that for seven years you were in the government, that was not a millimeter different. [[Abg. Bucher: I was never in the government!]] - No, no. You two together were the government group here. [[Abg. Bucher: I must have missed something! Minister of Finance, that was another one!]] He was three years old, then you were four years old. He was Klubobmann, you were financiers. And I imagine that there were all the things you criticize already at that time, partly much worse than today. That means we have to discuss this, and we are discussing it too. It is true that in 2008 we set up a working group that has also considered how much workers have lost due to the cold progression. However, we have not thought to this day, but we have acted in 2009, have implemented a major tax reform and have just returned this cold progression to workers in 2009 through the tax reform of €3 billion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What did you do when you were in government or government group? What do you have? You made it in 2005? Did you return the cold progression to the workers at that time? - No! What you have done was to take the money of the workers and put it into group taxation and into tax gifts for rich and multinational corporations. That's what you did. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are seven years in the government!]] And now you stand out and criticize that red employee representatives would not have done their job. Well, we're doing our job. They claim that you do yours, and do the opposite of what you say here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second thing addressed is that there are sometimes small jumps of 10 cents in the tax system. Of course, there is no such 10-cent jumps, but there are jumps of a few euros, because of which one suddenly comes into another tax class. That's where I didn't go, but where I just have fixed boundaries. [[Abg. Bucher: This is a purely gross net bill!]] It is true that only a few weeks ago we only deleted a lot of it with the application stupid/Crainer – we have cut in the large amount of withdrawal for single-earner pensioners – and it is true that we have not yet cut everything you can in. That also has its reason: Of course, grinding arrangements make every control system extremely complicated and make it extremely complicated from the calculation, whereas fixed boundaries are always quite simple and understandable. But we would like to take this on the occasion and constantly look at these fixed limits, otherwise we would not have decided on a looping scheme just two months ago. And if real problems occur in practice – not in theory, but in practice – then we like to drag them in. But I also take note of one thing: For seven years you have seen no problem in the jump of 1 050 € to 1 050,10 €. At the time, they saw no problem in it and did not implement new tax reforms and did not change anything. And I tell you, it always raises the question whether something is a problem in theory or in practice. If we see it is in practice a problem, then we like to change it. The next question raised in the debate is the question of family taxation. In this respect, it is not that there would be nothing for children or families in our tax system and in the transfer system at all. So I mean, the term ‘family allowance’ has already been heard, the deductibility of child care costs, child deposits, child allowances et cetera et cetera. So it is not that our tax system would not know children, but if we look at what we spend on tax and transfers for children and for families, and compare it with other countries, and with what we spend on infrastructure services, it is so that we are among the top countries in the OECD and in the European Union – we are at the forefront when it comes to money and tax services – but when it comes to infrastructure services, then we are all in the back. Something we can learn from other countries that are successful – that is, people get as many children as they want; in Austria young families want to have two to three children, but they actually have one to two children – are two things they do better than we do. These are not the cash benefits, these are not the tax benefits, these are the infrastructure services that are concerned with improving the compatibility of work and family. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Oh yes!]] And the second, where they are better, is the father's participation, where the fathers do a higher share of child and care work than is the case in Austria, tag Papa-Monat. These are the two points that make the difference and concern a successful family policy. As a third party, I have to say one more thing: When we look at the tax system, we see that there is a completely different problem than the cold progression. You can talk about how to improve this, but the big problem is the following: If we look at the cake, how the income is distributed in Austria, then those who work for their money get about 60 percent of the cake in Austria. 40 percent are given to those who have wealth and capital income. And when it comes to taxes, that is, who pays the bill, then those who work for their money get only 60 percent of the cake, but pay almost 90 percent of the bill, namely through taxes and taxes in that country. And those who have wealth and capital income get 40 percent of the cake, but only pay about 10 percent of the bill. That is the real and great problem. And as a political party, as BZÖ, you are against asset taxes, against real capital taxes, against inheritance taxes and so on, which raise the real problem of our tax system, namely that those who go to work get only 60 percent of the cake, but pay 90 percent of the bill. This is the real problem we have today, and there you should give yourself a back and also work for real property taxes, inheritance taxes and then for the reduction of taxes on labour, but instead also for an increase in taxes on assets and capital. Because that's the real problem. They always have social democracy as allies when it comes to eliminating the real and true problems in the tax system, namely that workers pay too much taxes, and people who have a high wealth and capital income pay too little. That's the real problem. [[Abg. Bucher: Make a suggestion! Never made a suggestion!]] You certainly don't have us as an alliance partner in the other things.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e12532	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e12553	Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I do not wish to hide at first that I feel a lot of sympathy for a number of passages of this request. [[Abg. Booker: Start well once, and now just no but!]] No question at all, I share Mrs Finanzminister's opinion. A lower tax rate of 36,5, is a rate of tax, which is already used at €60,000 per year at 50 per cent. In Germany it is 47 percent from € 240 000. There are worlds in between. That means, de facto, we've had the rich tax for a long time. And this is the anti-performance element both below and above. And the medium-sized bough is on the way. So no question, a collective reform is essential. The problem is only, dear friends of the BZÖ, the time is chosen by you in such a way that it would be exactly where every citizen says today: No, we don't need to do that before choosing a tax reduction and a tax package after the election. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tax reduction and no tax package!]] That's it. You are proposing that such a tax reduction be made before the summer. And that's exactly the old concept, in part we've done it ourselves, I admit, but we've also become smarter, we certainly don't do it any more: before the election a sugar, after the choice the load package. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I'm excited! So we're just doing the load package!]] No, that's not the way it is, dear friends. You have to take this into account. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second is – and Mrs Finanzminister has already said that – that: You have to decide what you want at some point. Policy must set priorities. You can't have everything at the same time. And we are in the middle of a debate that we have just interrupted because of the urgent, namely the Federal Financial Framework Act. There is clearly the priority of the consolidation of the State budget, where you are always right to say: The state is not supposed to make new debts every year. But by your request we would constantly make new debts again. We want the zero deficit. This zero deficit means that I do not need new debts this year if revenue and expenditure are to come out. But also a word on the famous factor of work, which is always addressed. I am – you all know me – a friend of facts and facts. The factor of work, which can be read everywhere, is charged with 48 per cent, 37 per cent are social taxes, 11 per cent are wage tax. So if you want to do something, you can't say you want to do something about the tax, but then you have to look at the social system. I'm not talking any further because we're having a tax discussion today. But I cannot fail to say, if 37 percent of 48 percent of social contributions are social contributions, then there is also a very strong lever there and we really have to look at the issue of meeting security in the social system again, probably a task also for the next period. I always say that the only logical explanation that we have not yet won such a high social rate and yet the fight against poverty can only be that the money in part gets the wrong people. This must be said very soberly, that is the only logical consequence of this ratio of high social ratio and fight against poverty still not won. Ladies and gentlemen, on the flat tax: I said years ago that the flat tax is a successful tax model, but from the Middle Ages. In the Middle Ages was the classic flat tax of the toe, which was delivered – all pay the same. A successful concept from the Middle Ages, but I think it really doesn't fit in today's time. I made an intermediate call earlier and asked: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher, why do you want to favor Frank Stronach right now? – The answer was, the millionaires are favored. [[Abg. Bucher: Because he feels sorry for a pensioner!]] So why does Sepp Bucher want to favor the Stronach right now? Of course, I have not received an answer. I understand, dear Clubobmann! Maybe another point, because that was also addressed by you: The relationship between taxes and social security contributions. Dear Clubobmann! You referred to the maximum contribution basis. The servers benefit so much from this. So I'm wondering. You know, the maximum contribution base is ten times as high as the minimum contribution base. This means that those who pay their contributions on the basis of the maximum contribution basis pay ten times as much as those who pay their contributions on the basis of the minimum contribution basis. But he doesn't get the doctor's visit ten times, ten times the injection, ten times the hospital stays paid. In other words, the proportion of the higher earner in financing is disproportionately high today. This is solidarity. He pays ten times as much as he who pays his contributions on the basis of the minimum basis – social contributions – but receives the same benefits in the health system. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Social contributions!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] The pension is also covered. So I pay ten times as much, but I don't get ten times the benefits. There is already a strong element of redistribution and solidarity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] I'm a friend of facts and facts. That can't be discussed. The maximum contribution base is ten times as high as the minimum contribution base. However, the benefits of health insurance are entirely the same. [[Abg. Krainer: Pension!]] Mr Krainer! If you want to have an honest discussion here, you simply have to take note of the facts and facts. You can't ignore them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Amon: The maximum board isn't ten times as high as the minimum board!]] Mr Krainer! There are also no class combat calls. It's useless. The facts and facts are, please, on the table. And as far as property is concerned, we are those who say not property is theft, but a property tax is theft. This is where the two coalition partners differ. That's not a problem, please. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The current government is not a single party. There are two parties with very different positions. And we say property is worth protecting, property is not theft, just as radical socialists said two centuries ago, but property is something worth protecting. That is why we have done a lot together in the area of income taxation of assets and do not reject them at all. But what about the asset substance? – Not with us, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e12704	Mr Podgorschek has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e12726	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! When I heard that today the BZÖ will make a urgent request regarding taxes, I have tried a little bit to create a scapegoat of what has been missed in recent years. Actually, I can throw the whole thing away, because basically they've done everything I wanted to say before. Then I wonder, Mrs. Federal Minister: What has happened in recent years? – As far as I know, the ÖVP has been presenting the Minister of Finance since 2002. Before, there has been a short period of time when the Minister of Finance has once declared himself to be a freeman, and there was SPÖ Finance Minister before that. The SPÖ was always in the government, with the exception of 1966 and 1970, and between 2000 and 2006, so you could have done all these wrongs – which has never happened. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So you don't have to point out this time without a break when you were not in the government. At the end of the day, nothing has basically happened again in the last seven years. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] If I hear from my colleague silently the comparison with the Middle Ages and the toes, I now also think of a comparison: People used to be taken away by 10 percent; now they are left with 10 percent if they are good. That's the only difference. But fun side by side: We have, and I am quite right in giving the Federal Minister, a large medium-sized band, and it has been dismantled as soon as possible. The labour factor is taxed far too high. There is a complete imbalance. Interestingly, just today the Federal Economic Policy Department has published a very interesting study, which fits wonderfully. I do not assume that the BZÖ has voted this debate with the Federal Chamber of Commerce. It is hard to believe that there are economic officials who do not belong to the ÖVP, and I can also count on that. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Mr Matznetter!]] Mr. Matznetter. That's very interesting. The title already reads: “Strengthening labour costs in Austria”. - Perfect. I'll go with President Leitel d'accord. “In Austria, labour costs increased most in the euro area comparison between 2008 and 2012.” Or: In the EU comparison, Austria was still in the tenth place in 2008, but “in 2012 it has the highest value and has overturned Germany for the first time.” – In other words, in Germany labour costs are already lower than in Austria. So there's got to be the alarm bells ringing on and on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! If I've recognized this right now, you've already seen it. I know you have a very difficult coalition partner, I have noticed, but perhaps you can ask Mr Krainer next time if he will take over the role of the Minister of Finance, because then, as I mean, milk and honey will flow in the future. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: I'm sure I won't ask him that!]] But now I'm coming back to the thing. We will certainly no longer be able to implement comprehensive tax reform in this legislative period, which is clear to me, but it must be considered that the entry tax rate must be reduced from 36,5 to 25 percent. The number of progression levels must be reduced. It's got to keep more money in the bag for the people. You probably also know the study of Joanneum Research, according to which the transfer costs compensate more or less so much that these days you already have to earn about €3,000 gross, that is about €3500, that you get back what you would otherwise get about transfer costs. So that is, as far as the performance is concerned, these diametrically represent all the economic thinking that we have actually taken into account. But after the election, a reform has to be done, and of course you are also required, because you can only relieve the factor of work if you save elsewhere. We had the discussion about the Federal Financial Framework Act before. It was quite clear that you were mainly rehabilitating the budget through revenue, thanks to the Austrian workers and employers who are skilled and where workers are paying so much tax, I am quite right for Mr Bucher. And where can we compensate for this at the end of the day? – This is only possible by saving, but it is so reasonable that I do not harm the economy, but I can only save in the administrative sector, i.e. in the area of “speech”. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] There are enough examples in Europe where this has been achieved, for example in the north, in Sweden or Denmark. Switzerland can also serve as a classic example, even if I still have to say it a hundred times. Why? – Because the population is constantly controlling politics through direct democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only way is to get away our bacon, I say it so salopp. It is to be questioned whether it is absolutely necessary that there be three district heads in Linz, as is the case in my federal state. It is not necessary to have two district captains in Wels. There are some ways to get down there. This money, which is saved there, but in part also in the health field, can ultimately relieve workers. This must be the priority objective. I can only say one thing right now: With this government, the cold progression is more compensated for by the high heating costs.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e12821	Mr Mag. Rossmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e12842	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! If Mrs Finanzminister here distances himself from the flat tax, I can only look at those who want to see it, the “standard” of 21. Recommendation of June 2011. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Dr. Bruckner! What can I do if he says that?- Oh, my God!]] Karl Bruckner, a tax advisor close to you, has, unfortunately, already passed away – of course, but you have taken over the model, this flat-tax model that Karl Bruckner then discussed in connection with what makes sense in itself, namely the creation of an integrated tariff. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: That doesn't mean I said that! Bruckner, Karl Bruckner!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No! He would have wanted it, but we didn't!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: That's right!]] At the time, Karl Bruckner meant that it would make sense, since the limit burden, consisting of wage tax and social security, was already too high, namely in the maximum at – I considered it – 49 percent, to set a flat tax rate of 44 percent. At the time, Mrs Finanzminister, you have also come to know this model, at least never distanced from it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No, we figured it out, and it doesn't count!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: This is the Karl Bruckner model, but not my model!]] If the speech is, Mrs Finanzminister, that our tax system is anti-performance, I would like to return to Mr Karl Bruckner. In fact, it is not a secret to look at wage and income taxes always the social security contributions, and if you look at the so-called border tax, consisting of wage tax, income tax and social security contributions – that is the burden you pay when you earn an additional euro – you can see a surprising picture: that those who have the highest tax burden, the gross annual income between € 40 000 and € 60 000. Those who have an annual income of between €60,000 and €80,000 gross have a 38 percent limit. This is the effect that clearly results from the maximum contribution base. [[Abg. Booker: That's what I talked about!]] Those who earn over €80,000 have a limit burden of 43,7 percent, but at least significantly less than those who earn between €40,000 and €60,000. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: This is the so-called middle class!]] – I say that’s the “bathing tub effect”, that’s not the middle class ball. To work on these problems, Mrs Finanzminister, you have had five years now! You made yourself here and said you think first, and then you act. – Well, the problems of the Austrian tax and tax system are not new. They are not new to wage and income taxes related to social security, it is not new that the income tax rate at 36.5 percent is significantly too high; by the way, it was an effect that followed the large grass tax reductions. Moreover, we have not only tax problems in the context of wage and income taxation, we also have the problem that assets are very low in international comparison. We also have the problem that we are also more likely to be found in the lower middle of Europe in the field of environmental taxation. I would have expected this to be done in recent years. A special problem of this is certainly the cold progression, since I would like to give Mr Klubobmann Bucher a right. I mean, the cold progression is something I demanded in the years 2006 to 2008 when I was in Parliament, as one of the anti-inflation measures, the anti-inflation package. No one wanted to hear about it back then. It's not like you're saying that you have to think about what you're doing. There are many countries that have an indexation of progression levels adapted to inflation rates. Mr Westenthaler mentioned two examples – France and Switzerland – but there are others, for example the Netherlands, Canada, and I do not think of the others at the moment. So there are certainly a number of countries that have this and where you can see how it works. It is not a witchcraft to develop such a thing, for it is not clear why people are growing into higher stages of progression through wage increases, namely at such stages of progression that are not intended for them. That would be the effect of paying off the cold progression. The idea behind that is reasonable in itself. We Greens are still on the proposal to abolish cold progression by indexing progression levels, but of course it should not be the case that this is a singular measure in connection with tax reform, but rather should be considered in the context of a tax-structural reform – a tax-structural reform, which, as a whole, also takes a greater look at the factor of labour, which is also a matter of taxation of assets, because it must also be remembered how to finance the whole. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] For example, Mr Krainer, it is so important to pay off the cold progression, because all the so-called tariff cuts or tax reforms, as they have been called in recent years, have not led to cold progression being paid off. This is simply and simply a problem to manage. One word, Mrs Finanzminister, of course I also have to lose to the families, if you – Mr Krainer has already suggested it – say that there are no exceptions for children in the tax system. Of course, there are exceptions for children in the tax and tax system. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Not at the rate! The one with children and the one with no children has the same tariff!]] It is not in the tariff, but there are, of course, the amounts of redundancies, there are the allowances, and, and, Mr Krainer has already listed that. You do not want to integrate the children into the tariff, Mrs Finanzminister, I am sorry to have to correct you. For a ‘Sunday breakfast’ in the ‘Kurier’ you have once proposed a child allowance of € 7 000. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: I mentioned the German model!]] – I don’t care what model this is, I’m interested in how this model works, and I’m going to tell you how this model works! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This model works in such a way that a single earner with two children and a low income zero benefits from the 7 000€ allowance and a good earner benefits with two children, married or not married, 7 000 € per year. So I don't want that, Mrs. Finanzminister! [[New condolences with the greens.]] They are always talking about justice – it has nothing to do with justice, except to think about what this will cost your model of an amount of €7 000! I figured this out, which costs at least €4.5 billion. There has been a collective reform which will cost €5.5 billion in this proposal. That's 10 billion €! – Mrs Finanzminister, to this day you have remained guilty of the answer to how you want to finance it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They are always talking about the need for a tax system to be easier, less, more accountable. Less is also a lower tax and tax rate, and a lower tax and tax rate must, of course, be somehow included in your budget path – that is, in the previous debate. So if, for example, you estimate a tax rate of 40 percent of the gross domestic product, as it also came from the clubman Bucher, then you have to say how you want to finance it. 3 percent of GDP is about €9 billion, as you have to say on the other hand, which exceptions in the tax system you delete or what expenses you want to reduce. The Court of Auditors has predicted that there are 588 exceptions – I believe it has said 588 – and the total amount is €9 billion. Of course, the biggest advantage is the 13, 14. The salary, and therefore, Mrs. Finanzminister, you must also say whether you belong to the 13th, 14. Concentrate or not. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No, I don't want to!]] You've had so long to think, and you're not giving us an answer. They have not answered the problems of this tax and tax system for five years. You have essentially failed on this question! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e13041	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e13062	Madam President. High house! [[Call at the ÖVP:Now there is again a matter of fact!]] – Of course, now you come in again, you say it! Mrs. Minister, you have said here today that in 2017 we will have a balanced budget, with respect for a surplus. Now I wonder, Mrs Minister – I know you have a very long horizon, you think intensively into the future – why you have done nothing or almost nothing in the last two years. Why do you promise us the future today? You know very well that after “Adam Riese” you may no longer be Minister of Finance at the next election, and yet you will put us in the year 2017 ahead of the year in which we will not make any new debt, in which surplus will be achieved. I wonder why nothing is happening from your side now. You might say, of course, that you only now realize that the problems are there, and it just takes his time. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: This is the wrong paper, Mr. Lugar! Wrong speech!]] If you read your statements on the situation of the nation and on the budget – I have looked at those from 2011, at least two years ago – you wonder what you have done since then. You said Austria was a high tax country at the time. You said there was a mid-sized hump at the time. They said at that time that the process was too rapid. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Degrading the deficit, Stability Pact closed!]] You said at the time that the peak tax rate was taking a lot too early. You said at the time that you also have to support server servants that we need a simpler tax system and so on. – I wonder: What has prevented you from doing something in this direction over the last two years? What prevented you from doing? You called, we need to reduce the budget deficit. – The Court of Auditors told you and also your predecessor and the predecessor of your predecessor years ago that many billions of people are slumbering in the administration. What did you do? What have you done in the last two years? What prevented you from doing something? I really wonder. They stand here like a board of directors of a company that, while always criticizing the bad sales and the bad profits, does nothing. You're not doing anything. You're still guilty of the answers today. If you say you want to relieve the families tax, then you could have just said you want a family tax, you want measures that help. What did you do? - Nothing you've done! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You said two years ago at this point – by the way Your predecessor Pröll also said that, just a year before you, he did it –: Debts are the most unsocial there is. Mr Pröll then made further debts. They said – a year later as Pröll: Debts are the most unsocial thing there is!, and you too have made debts again. Last year, you said the same thing and made debt again. Today you sit here again and tell us the blue from the sky – but nothing comes. There's nothing coming! Mrs Minister, if you always say that we have no money in the budget, we cannot afford to have you recognized what it is all about, but you cannot afford it because we have a problem with the budget, then I wonder why you are not finally addressing the administrative reform. In this respect, there is nothing from your side at all. The Court of Auditors has predicted that you have not implemented even 2% of the Court of Auditors' proposals that could bring billions of savings. Not even 2%! What are you doing? - Nothing! If you already know that the cash registers are empty, and if you don't implement the things that would be feasible, why don't you try to make our tax system just more just or at least more balanced, because it doesn't matter who pays the taxes? One could also shift in the system without reducing the tax burden. We all know that if those who earn little more remains in the pocket of money that comes back over the tax via detours. This means an increase in purchasing power in the area where people actually need the money to live. They do not carry it on the banks, but put every euro they earn more, immediately back into consumer goods, into supplies. That means more VAT again and so on. That means you could also move a lot with an intelligent steering of the control without having to get right into the bag. If you think about it – I know someone who can help you a little bit on the jumps. Frank Stronach has the experience of bringing himself in here. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter as well as Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] – You laugh, Mrs. Minister?- Oh, my God! There comes someone who has a lot of experience now, because he's already 80 years old, brings himself into this country, wants to help, gives us his information, his experience, there comes someone with information and with suggestions what you can do here, and you just laugh at it. What's ridiculous about that? What's ridiculous about that? - He's paying taxes. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: That he does not pay taxes in Austria!]] It pays over € 1 million in taxes in Austria, so where is the problem now? [[Abg. What do you mean, "Personal"?]] Of course! Frank Stronach pays 1 million taxes in Austria, and he pays much more taxes in that country in which he has most income, namely in Canada. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Now you're not going to propagate here that Frank Stronach, where he has his income, is withdrawing taxes and taxing them here in Austria, or what do you want to tell me now? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Where does he have his food point? In Switzerland?]] The taxes are ultimately paid where they apply. I note, Mrs Minister, that you do not want to accept any suggestions from us here. Then talk to your own experts! There are enough experts in your ministry who tell you exactly what I am telling you today. There is enormous potential. There is potential for savings, there is potential for retransmissions, there is potential for a reasonable tax system that is simple and that everyone can see through. There too you are, Mrs. Minister! I recognize that you have problems with your budget and that you cannot therefore simply get into the pocket for tax relief. I understand, I recognize that. But why, for God's sake, do you not at last attack the problem of complicated taxes? We could change our tax system immediately and free of charge. It doesn't cost you a cent if we change it to a simple control system. It doesn't have to be that only selected experts know each other. Frank Stronach always tells a funny story: Whenever he has a tax-technical problem in Austria, he asks his experts, and they always say: There we have to go to Vienna, there are even bigger experts who know each other! Then you go to Vienna and want to know how to treat this tax, after three weeks you get a huge bill – and the experts say it can be like that. That is the problem in our tax system. You wouldn't have to take money in your hands, you would just have to run through this paragraph end and make a simple, transparent control system. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It doesn't cost anything, it'll bring a lot, and that would be a signal to us that you mean it honestly. We still lack it, I miss it. I miss the signal, Mrs. Minister, that you mean it honestly. They keep coming here and telling us everything possible about the high tax country and how unhappy you are with it, but you don't do anything. You don't do anything, so come on. Please get in the way! Please also think a little less about Greece, about Cyprus! I have heard here in the House over and over again how you are thinking about the Greek situation, about the tax revenue in Greece, about the tax revenue in Cyprus, about the situation of local people. This is all very plausible, Mrs. Minister, but you can do that in your spare time. You should use your main working time to finally introduce a proper tax system in Austria instead of giving such tips as last time in the Committee. I now have to quote a little from the committee; I hope I can, I hope I have your blessing for that. Last time we discussed the rental contract fees in the Committee, we found that these fees create enormous problems for young families, and that the rental prices, which are already very high, are once again extra expensive. Each rental contract must be remunerated, and depending on how long it runs, even several thousand euros may apply, which is, of course, problematic for young families. We have referred to this in the Committee and asked you to put it off, because this is really very problematic for young families. What did you answer? – You have – and this makes you look deep – in a flaming speech, as you have done here today, said that you also find it quite, very terrible, which definitely should be abolished. You have not said, however, that we shall do this or at least we shall not postpone the request which was put forward and which was reasonable. No, you have abandoned this request and then said that if this is a problem for someone, then he simply should not sign a contract, but make it oral and film it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No, I didn't say that! Don't tell me wrong!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Don't tell me wrong!]] You said it, and everyone heard it. They all heard in the committee, as you said, that they should not sign this contract, but “fectorize” it by recording it on video; then they save themselves this fee, which only applies if it is a written contract. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: I denounced this bypass! Tell me!]] – You didn’t accuse her, you said there was this bypass, and you could handle it that way. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That's the problem, and that's why: Please do not avoid taxes, but make reasonable taxes, and then there are no problems either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e13258	Mr Grosz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e13279	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Lugar: It will not be Mr Adam Ries, who will replace Mrs Fekter, I can assure you today. If we read today's daily newspapers, it will be Mr. Michael Spindelegger, who will put Mr Reinhold Mitterlehner in the Ministry of Finance in five months' time at the latest. That is why the future perspective of Mrs Finanzminister, which she is bringing us here today, is at least very at last and will not move much at least the Austrian taxpayers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Schottergrube!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek]] – The incoming silence of the Austrian People's Party confirms this rumor. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hornek.]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! It was not only Professor Dr. Karl Bruckner, who has actually put the Flat Tax into play, but Mrs. Federal Minister – and I quote I hope you're right now – it was you yourself on the 4th. In June 2011, the following question was raised: "They have decided to a small tax package at the government's clatage, which provides a better deductibility for donations and church contributions. When does a really big tax reform come?” Maria Fekter in the O-tone: “I am commissioned by our new Vice-Chancellor to bring our currently very inconspicuous tax system into a completely new form. There will therefore not be a small tax reform, but a large tax reform, which has four major elements:” – “The tax should become less, simpler, more accountable and above all relieve families.” [[Abg. Booker: The Big Throw!]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] “And how long will that take?” & Reply Quarter: “We will certainly present our concept before the 2013 election.” – With certainty! [[Ah-run at BZÖ.]] [[Further calls at BZÖ:Sure! Guaranteed!]] I can remind you that we were on the 29th. This choice, in which you are selected or replaced, is already celebrated on September 1. I don't want to know when you're going to put this to the house. They continue to say: “If the SPÖ agrees to our model, we can decide before the next election.” Editor's question: “What should a simpler tax look like?” Quarters: “This can be a combination of all taxes from tax to social and health insurance in Austria, which can be a flat rate,” – “this can be an integrated model. [[Ah-Rufe at BZÖ]] We want to discuss all kinds of thinking openly.” [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Eben!]] Question: “So a flat tax is imaginable for you?” “We already have many flat councils from the savings book to the foundation tax – why not?” – Federal Minister Fekter in the O-Ton. [[Call the BZÖ:Ah so!]] I don't think I mis-quoted you. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] No, I did not mis-quote you, but you have said the untruth to this House, and that is what we have now brought to you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] ==References== In June, you said in the daily “ÖsterREICH”: “I plan to present a truly large tax reform.” – “The aim is an integrated, uniform tax rate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is it?]] I'm not turning on a few screws, I'm really planning a big throw. Much easier, even a flat tax is imaginable – all is discussed and developed by experts.” [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the litter? Who throws, and where's the litter?]] ==References== August 2011, in your medial drum fire for tax relief on the tracks of the Maggie Thatcher – where you are only for the poor in Austria, the Iron Lady – it was said in the "Tyrol daily": “Finance minister Maria Fekter wants to radically simplify the tax system by bringing together income tax and social security contributions in a kind of ‘flat tax’.” [[Call the BZÖ: Look here!]] I can now present your own quotes to you because your memory, as my colleague Peter Westenthaler has said, does not actually go back to 2011, so I do not give you any BZÖ brochure, but just remember your own promises. And this is also the content of the urgent request of our clubman Josef Bucher, who today again insists that our flat tax model, which in 2011 has been supported by the copying machine of your ministry, is finally implemented – and before the 2013 election, ladies and gentlemen, as you yourself promised, Mrs. Bundesminister der Fleischbereitlichkeit! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You come here today and – for example, your budget speaker stupidly – talk about the proposals by Josef Bucher and the BZÖ of tax sugars. In your own proposals on how to finally simplify the inefficient – I quote you – tax system, which is socially unfair, with considerable weaknesses – I say: inefficient, chaotic tax system – with the flat tax proposed by us of a uniform tax rate of 25 percent, including the social security contributions, you are speaking today of tax sugars. You know, Mrs. Federal Minister, “Zuckerl” always implies a gift. The eight million Austrians, of whom a good part of the workers pays their taxes every day, do not think it is a gift, a sugar, if you finally, for example, in the cold progression, give back what you take through this unfair and unsocial system. This has nothing to do with sugars, ladies and gentlemen, but that is fairness and justice, and we demand it today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The inefficient and chaotic tax system has brought Austria not only the reputation of a high tax country, but also every tax advisor in that country will tell you that Austria is a tax jungle. Even the best experts in the tax consulting offices in Austria can no longer advise their clients to the extent that it is supposed to be because with your inactivity you are prolonging this tax jungle in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] Moreover, today all speakers have condemned an anti-performance tax system: Josef Bucher – he has been doing this for years; stupid: anti-performance tax system; Kai Jan Krainer's anti-performance tax system. The liberals are promoting it and also the green budget speaker. And I wonder why we cannot get through today to give the Austrian Federal Government this clear and decisive task: firstly, to reverse the cold progression, and secondly, finally to establish a fair tax system in Austria, a simple tax system, namely the flat tax. This is our wish, as we also believe that we can actually relieve the Austrians and especially the families you call one of your four pillars. We then relieve the Austrian middle class, who, thanks to your policy, has to carry this middle class, of the much-honoured Mrs. Federal Minister, who is not relieved by you. They want to postpone this long-needed tax reform on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. We will therefore not be tired of reminding you of your promises at each meeting, nor will we tire of the House here in the House beyond the election day, and we will also demand that Austria finally receive a fair, uniform tax system.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e13481	Mr Matznetter is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e13502	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Grosz, I do not know why, but You are now blaming Mrs Finanzminister that her long-term memory is not working. . You do not even know what the request your group made four hours ago. This is only about adjusting the tax progression levels, not about a flat tax, as you said here three minutes ago – your memory is not even three minutes. [[Interoperability call at the BZÖ]] You said the flat tax model is from the BZÖ; with control progression levels that is not a flat tax. Please, that's all at one level – no, you can still discuss what you want. [[Abg. Grosz: I do not let you dictate what I am discussing!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It's completely indifferent to me, doesn't matter anyway. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] Your forecasts on who will be here in the autumn do not have to refer to Mrs Finanzminister; You can refer them to the position of the BZÖ Styria. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] But back to the real issue, and in this case, on whether we should do something about automatic inflation adjustment: This is a detailed problem of each progressive tax system, which is becoming more important, the higher inflation. But now we have justament a time when we have no particularly high inflation – fortunately. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who says that?]] – Statistics Austria, that is that institution, Mr Westenthaler – is not a problem; a little political education for you – you can do it at any time – Then explain your request correctly! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With a shopping cart that is completely irrelevant! No longer works!]] You want to make a law where you'll have to be clear about it: [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] You don't accept the CPI. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr. Ing. Westenthaler – “The engineer is nothing to swear” – says: He's wrong, the shopping cart. – Then how do you want to valorize your tax levels? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Check the food prices!]] After your blood pressure in the morning? Did you think? You make such a request, you want to valorize, and then you say that nothing is true because that is all wrong?- Oh, my God! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] So we see here the seriousness with which the subject is presented by the dear colleagues from the BZÖ. More serious: This is really a very small problem, and if you accept your request, then the Federal Minister – that is, the government – could make a proposal for a law that this National Council might decide on during this legislative period. When would that work? – It could enter into force at the earliest when there is a period of comparison. That would be the 1st. January 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to talk about a tax reform earlier, and then not about the adjustment of tax progression levels by 3.9 percent, but – as a number of previous speakers and also Mr Krainer said correctly – about the complete flaw of the tax system. If Mr Klubobmann Bucher says that it is a “high tax park”, then we probably have a summit where we have a very, very high tax. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ah so!]] Even the Billa seller, if you expect taxes and taxes, actually already had to pay 18 percent, even if she is far below her wage tax limit. At the same time, however, we have deep down – and it has already been pointed out that we are among the countries with the lowest capital taxation. – Yes, why is the BZÖ against it? Why not pay an Obolus at least for the remaining part of the first million from a million heritage? Why not make a contribution to society for more than one million assets? - You always say no. But that would be like valleys to fill up, then a volume would be there, and then we could lower it. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Labour force must be, Mr. Cot!]] I also tell you why it is: because half here always think of one's own pocket and one's like it. This is a part of the discussion here. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Unfortunately Günter is not stupid, I would have liked to tell him: The 4 percent health insurance contribution will only be cancelled up to the maximum contribution basis. With all of us here, this ends at just under €4,000. From that we deduct 50 percent tax, then we have a percentage on the final content – I don't know how it is stupid with Günter, he still has an old politician's pension –, probably 1 percent. [[Call BZÖ: Your salary off!]] The Billa seller pays 3,87 percent with her 1 000 €. – Not always from your own perspective! And this also applies to ideas like those to give 7 200 € per child. - Great, I have four children! Can anyone explain to me why I'm supposed to make politics, that I'm saying I'm gonna add 3 500 € per child and the Billa salesman with two kids gets nothing? - That's not decent. [[Call:If you don't, it's a failure]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: He gets the transfer services!]] – Almost the same as me! Stop it now, Maria! The same as me, the same family allowance! – No, because I can still claim child care in the hort, and for this I get more than her again. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] That's a wrong policy. Stop always starting from your own life perspective! Look at the people who have little! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Therefore, no tax exemptions, but rather go here and make a failed kindergarten that expands funding in this area! We have the second highest payment in the family sector in Europe; only Luxembourg has more. We don't need a tax model, if you believe, then more children will come. I have not heard this comment at all. Don't insult the Austrian mothers and fathers that they make children just because they get a tax exemption! [[Calls at FPÖ and BZÖ:Who insults?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Excuse me, our citizens – hopefully – are not prepared to decide on the question of family creation and extension due to financial incentives, due to tax exemptions! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Singer.]] If it were, we would have to expand the psychosocial service. But the Austrians are not that way, because they are much more reasonable than some here believe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So stop taking control of sugars; they know what they do! And I come to an essential point: We have to do something because the work is too much taxed; whether we say buckel or bathtub, that's really something we have to do. And, Mrs. Federal Minister, I was very active – I also said this publicly –: Let us discuss an integrated tariff! But that also means that we must integrate social security benefits. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Yes!]] Then we can make a gradual appointment; we continue to work on it, please! But in order to actually get down on taxes, we – and Mr Krainer has predicted this in the national economic account – will come from that part of the country's value added, where we do not receive taxes, which must get. And this is not possible if there are international companies that are operating with a market share – from me to mobile phones – of 30 percent and pay 1,9 percent taxes from € 25 billion abroad. There's going to be more and more going away. The British have caught a coffeehouse chain that has never paid a penny of taxes in UK at all – and everyone is running with the cup. [[Abg. Oils: Let's say the name: Starbucks!]] That's what we really have here. In addition, a small coffee house is, the operator does not even know how to pay it – but he may pay the taxes. There we need action, and there you can get the billions with which you can actually reduce taxes on work. But then they also have to pay taxes, and there they cannot find a patron. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] My appeal to all who tend to do so in between: They can't find a patron! When we get together, we can celebrate similar successes to those of the financial transaction tax a few years ago – that Europe is facing its back feet and saying: End with tax construction models! And there were enough examples: If the license fees go to Bermuda, no tax deductibility, then the model is right out! There was already a real discussion in Germany. And then come back to us which say we have our insurance there. That's where you have to say: You don't need insurance from there, you have in Austria, Uniqa and others enough offers, you don't need one on the Bahamas. All these things – once again – we could move a lot together. Everyone is invited to do so; then you can really lower it. Honestly. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] This part is not even suitable as an election spirit, so even Mr Grosz forgets within five minutes, which was at all the request. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Cold Progression!]] – Can happen, is more often so on BZÖ applications, but does not harm anything! From autumn on we will no longer have them there, and then life will be easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e13801	Mrs Tamandel is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e13823	Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Although I cannot fully agree with Mr Matznetter's evocative statements, I am quite sure that I will be able to accept the criticism he has made of this urgent request. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] This urgent request has a single issue, which is the cold progression. Every speaker from the BZÖ – Mr Grosz, who has been so evocative there, has already gone out; obviously he is not interested in it – has talked primarily about the flat tax, but no human has so far discovered that in reality in the application is an error. In fact, there is not already the 50 per cent limit rate from € 50 000, but from € 60 000. Your request, Mr Westenthaler, is probably a wrong one. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What application do you have?]] [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] No problem! I know it anyway, so it's not a problem. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: is not even able to quote properly!]] But what is still to be said about the whole matter and also about the flat tax [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Members of this House! cannot even read!]] I believe that the most unfair in our system is now primarily the so-called flat tax in social security, because someone who is above the low-quality limit, which is €386.60 per month, i.e. €387 or €388, is already paying 18.6 per cent social security. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] I mean, you have to put on the fact that maybe you're bringing together staggered contributions. Of course, Mr Westenthaler, you are perfectly right – I have now looked at it –: You said if a pensioner with 1 050 € grossly added one euro per month, he will suddenly have to pay 82 € pay tax. – You can also listen to me, Mr. Westenthaler. – But you have not said one again: that is the 13th and 14th. Wage is where this 82 €, namely 6 per cent wage tax, applies. Now I ask you: Do we want to attack that suddenly Christmas money and holiday money, which pensioners also receive, will not be taxed favourably in the future? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Learn to read!]] – I don’t think so, because that’s good tradition in Austria, and we want to keep it. But I would like to know one more thing. Mr Rossmann said that it would be crazy, for example, if families were suddenly granted an allowance of € 7 000 per child, because families have more costs than those who do not have children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann]] Mr Matznetter said that it is always about ourselves. – So I personally do not have children, for example, but I think it is fair that families who make a large proportion of the tax benefits will also be taxed on the children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] And that is what we want in future tax reform, which is why the BZÖ's request, which is only about cold progression, is far too far away. Quite honest: It's always said we don't do anything for those who deserve little. So: If we have a minimum guarantee, which is constantly raised, which is roughly as high as the wage in a sector such as trade or other sectors in which mainly women are active for 38,5 hours or 40 hours, which are almost less or in about as much as someone who is paying minimum security, then something is lazy in the system. If we are honest, we must say that we have done something very well with the families and those who earn less. Thus, someone who earns less and does not pay a wage tax and has three children, gets €889 back to negative tax. In which country is there this: that one who does not pay a wage tax returns such a high amount? So please don't pretend we haven't done anything in the last few years! Of course, we also believe: We need a tax reform, relatively quickly! However, we need a tax reform which relieves those, Mr Rossmann, who most often pay into the tax pot, and not even those who get more from the state than those who pay most of it into the tax pot. On the subject of property tax and property-related tax, a few words were also added. First: Budgets and government budgets can not only be rehabilitated with tax revenue and additional taxes. You can see that in Vienna! The budget cannot be rehabilitated there, although the fees and charges are constantly increased and revenue increases. It just doesn't work like that! Secondly, We have introduced capital taxes in two ways, always where something is sold: Sale of securities, sale of shares, sale of real estate. All of this has been done. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Income taxes!]] I think we have taken a very big step where we have said before: Whether we want that, we don't know! We've done it, and we're on it now. But there can't be one thing: a property tax on the substance! There are always new ideas: once 1 million, once 700 000, once 500 000 and once 150 000. There won't be any of that with us! As an employee representative, I must say: I do not understand that my colleagues do not understand the red half of the empire, and I do not understand many others, because it should be important for us to be able to create property for employees themselves and that it should be a value that we can then pass on to our children and children. For this we stand – and we will work on it! With us, there will certainly not be an asset tax on substance.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e13968	Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Member, you know the relevant provisions of the joint venture. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e13993	Madam President. I know these rules well, I have applied them many times. Mrs Tamandl – that is the one who always says, just because of the euro there are pensions, and the louder stories here – has blamed us all for the fact that our urgent request is wrong, and has not clearly claimed in me that this request contains a sentence which reads as follows: From € 50 000, the limit rate is 50 percent. Mrs Colleagues, I am sluggish about how you came up with it, because it is incorrect what you have quoted there. There is only one application, namely the one with the entry stamp which you do not seem to have, namely application 2257/A(E). [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: We got on it in time!]] There is the following sentence inside: “From 60,000 euros, the limit rate is 50 percent.” I can only explain this to myself: Either you can't read or you write yourself any requests you quote here to accuse us that our request is wrong. Both are not very constructive for a Member of this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14040	The next item is the speech by Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14062	Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14122	I assume, honourable Member, that the correct applications have been distributed. But you can look at everything. Please, Mr Themessl, continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14140	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a correction: My colleague and tax advisor Matznetter here claimed that the maximum contribution base for social security will amount to almost €4,000. In fact, it amounts to €4,440 in 2013. – That's the correct. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I mention this for the reason that it shows exactly the work of the government: Whether you count a few percent more or less, in principle does not matter! This starts with the tax rate: It doesn't matter if we have 43 percent, although everyone wants less than 40 percent. – So much for your accuracy. In your opinion, Mrs Finanzminister, you have used almost three quarters of your speaking time to give full meaning to the requests and suggestions, or to the reservations of the opposition parties in recent years. They say: Yes, we are a top tax country, we have the highest tax rate, we have the highest tax rate! With us, the maximum tax rate of 50 percent is already starting at €60 000, and in Germany it is one of 45 percent at over €200 000! You are right in all things, and then, since you took office, you are talking about the need for a new tax reform to provide a lower tax rate, which is easier, more performance-friendly and above all family-friendly. To this end, Mrs Finanzminister, the following: Her predecessor Molterer said in 2007 that the tax rate had to be lowered urgently below 40 percent. At his exit she was then 41 percent. Her immediate predecessor, Josef Pröll, then said that the tax rate had to be less than 40 percent, and when he handed over the office to you, it was more than 42 percent. In the meantime, we have arrived at over 43 percent – rising trend. And now you're talking about that this is all right and that you have to change it. Only: They don't say when. You say that it is not possible at the moment, because it is simply not feasible because of the financial situation of the Austrian state – which you have contributed to it. So nothing happens! You know, Mrs Finanzminister, in the mouth of the people, someone who talks a lot and does nothing is called a steam-plauder. I can imagine that in principle you have recognized the problem very well, but you are absolutely not willing or able to change it. Let's look back! Your predecessors – you’re not responsible for this – tied load packages in the years 2010 and 2011. These tax packages still burden the Austrian economy. And it's clear, too. The Austrian economy consists not only of employers, but also of employers and employees. Without skilled and diligent workers, economies would not be possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They burdened the Austrian economy with €50 billion by the year 2016 with these two load packages from 2010 and 2011. But you will never say that – apart from all the other issues that are addressed here. And now I'm asking you: When do you want to change that? And there's the basic problem you have! This starts with family-friendly taxation. You know exactly that these load packs are above all families have been affected that today a woman has no more freedom of choice to care for her children in the first years and not to give them to a caretaker – there has not been any help with benefits! – and that in the event of a falling birth rate, although you know exactly that we have a huge need for follow-up in the family sector. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] If we want to be economically successful again in the future, we need children, but this family package is not suitable for that. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Let's see how it is with other strains! For example: If today an employee receives a salary increase of 4 percent, this costs the employer 6 percent. After deduction of all taxes, taxes and fees, the employee remains between 1.5 and 1 percent. That is, of 6 percent the employer has to catch, the state takes between 4.5 and 5 percent. – And that’s what you call fair and efficient! And now to your tax reform. – You are perfectly right: easier, less, more powerful! And: You can do it right away! But this is where the problem of this government begins – we are still talking about Agenda item 3: Budget path up to 2017 – namely: They are not in a position, nor are they in a position to implement those reforms that would bring money savings! If that wasn't the case, it wouldn't be a problem. You could make this tax reform before the election, as you promised, if you were finally prepared to implement reform steps, just as the Court of Auditors has been demanding for years and criticizing the lack of them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have an item on the agenda tomorrow on health reform. The health reform, where savings in billions would be possible, without the patient suffering, has come to an end. There are zero savings – but there are additional burdens, starting from bureaucracy to going-not-more! As I said, Save zero! As long as you are not willing to really address savings potential, you will never and never be able to implement your tax reform, which is: easier, less, more powerful!. You're gonna go to bed before you go to bed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14243	Mrs Lichtenecker has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14265	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister, you are today really refreshingly open in your implementation of the shortcomings of the Austrian tax system. I can even extend the list you mentioned here. And that's... The Austrian tax system is considered obsolete. It is due to the lack of very low income taxes and low environmental taxes, but has too high a burden on labour. And that's exactly where it's supposed to be. It has long been time for an ecological and social tax reform. You, Mrs Minister, have spoken of it sometime, but you have also forgotten, like many others, that. But it is precisely where the right approach is to be found, because a non-profit tax reform in the environmental field would be a major step forward: on the one hand, climate and environmental protection, on the other hand, it would be an important boost for innovation, including in the field of environmental technology in this country, and in particular for job creation. This is something that this form of tax reform could afford, Mrs Minister, and it is precisely that one should count in times of rising unemployment rates. This is achieved by the fact that on the one hand there are innovations that create jobs and on the other hand by creating jobs, the labour factor is becoming cheaper, cheaper. That is exactly what the intention of an eco-social tax reform is to be. That is what you – I have no hope that this will happen this year – will actually have to do in the next legislative period, namely to find an appropriate approach. For information: Environmental taxes are so low in Austria that we are lower in the European comparison. But this is much more interesting in the field of property taxes, because in Europe we de facto have the “red lantern”. A very small part of the total tax collected in Austria comes from the area of environment – apologies, assets! In the area of the environment, too, but in the area of wealth, it is particularly dramatic, since it is only about 1.2 percent of total tax revenue. If you compare this with other countries, you can see: In Britain, for example, it is about 11.6 percent, in the United States of America 12 percent. There is a completely different tax structure, which, as I think, is much more just. For, Mrs Tamandl: A property tax is obviously also a matter of justice and of who can bear the burden in order to make a consolidation in the budget. A tax system is always a symbol of how a country develops, what is the focus on and how fair it is? And there, I think, we have to take the appropriate approaches. What does an inheritance tax actually mean? This is an inheritance tax, where there is a correspondingly large amount of free money, so that one can also inherit single-family houses without having to charge high inheritance taxes. But for all that lies above, one should make a contribution to a more just tax system. That is of course! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the request of the BZÖ: We believe that it is very well justified to take into account inflation in the stages of tax progression. But inflation is not only to be taken into account there. Because Mr Matznetter found this so difficult today, the question should be asked: So why take the inflation rate into account in each wage negotiation? – You are right to do that, as I mean! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] But, of course, inflation should also be taken into account in the care money. It should not be seen at all that there has been a de facto reduction in the care allowance over years. That's unfair. That's unfair. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The same applies to the family allowance, where the corresponding seeds should have been made or should have been adjusted. All in all, there are many points that are still to be taken into account. The work is at the door, so to speak, we have to go to it. That would be one of the first and important steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14346	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14367	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor Ruperta Lichtenecker has put one to the point: that the tax progress has to be made. The aim of our proposal is to make tax progress an annual adjustment to the extent of inflation. That is the core of our request! But there are much more things that need to be taken into account in this area. Mr Matznetter said that inflation was so low that it was not so high: Yes, clearly, when goods such as televisions, computers and mobile phones are included, inflation is, of course, low, but inflation is very high if you leave these articles and calculate inflation only in terms of everyday needs. Then it looks a little different. And that's what it's all about! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But it is – and this should be a very comprehensive package – that the share of wage tax in the total tax revenue, as the Strategy Report of the Federal Financial Framework Act 2014 to 2017, is much higher than that of other sectors. But the real net incomes stagnating will be lower from year to year, which is a sluggish tax increase. This means that Austrian income tax legislation is anti-performance. And this must be countered in the future. This is also said by the Court of Auditors in its recent report, which indicates that there are 558 special provisions. However, not only in the Court of Auditors report, but also in the recommendation of the Council of the European Commission on the Austrian National Reform Programme 2012 and in the opinion on the Austrian Stability Programme for the period 2011 to 2016, it states that within the European Union the burden on labour with taxes and social taxes is highest in Austria. We must not, of course, exclude social contributions. But in Austria, especially for low-paid recipients, effective border rates are particularly high due to the interplay of social security contributions, income tax and social protection systems. And that must be countered. In one of the 2011 country-specific recommendations addressed to Austria, the Council called for measures to reduce the effective tax and social security burden on labour in budget-neutral terms. It is precisely this that the labour force, ladies and gentlemen, must be relieved. That must be our concern. I appeal, above all, to the SPÖ Group, to the Socialists here in Parliament, to take action there. Now you've been putting the Federal Chancellor for seven years, but nothing's gone on! You, Mrs. Fekter – you are the Minister of Finance! – could take action in order to finally rework something in this area. In the social report for the years 2011 and 2012, which we discussed at the last meeting of the Committee, we are talking about a decline in the net wage ratio and the need for action. It states that, despite rising employment, wages as a whole have increased more slowly than corporate, wealth and rental incomes, thereby reducing the gross wage ratio, the share of wages in national incomes. All of this is reflected in this social report. Everyone working in the Committee knows this because we did not discuss it until a week ago. By increasing the tax burden – wage tax, social contributions – the net wage rate has fallen to a greater extent than the gross wage rate. That must also give us thinking in this area. Yes, Mr Rossmann, but that is how it is now. These are facts, these are facts, and we simply have to work against them. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: I didn't say anything!]] – I am glad, the greens are about in the same direction here. A minimum wage should also be introduced. We are always talking about minimum security, but a difference between a minimum wage and minimum security must also be given, ladies and gentlemen. That's important to us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Federal Minister, don't always wait for the next election! Of course, it makes no sense to promise tax sugar before the election, make a tax reduction, and then put the tax back up again. That's not meaning and purpose. But one should finally work on a tax reform, on a social tax reform, on a relief of the labour factor and implement it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14416	Mrs Silhavy is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14437	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Dolinschek – I don't see him right now; ah, he's standing there and talking – we know from many areas, especially from the social field, that the question of valorization is always a subject. I find it very difficult to talk about different baskets of goods in the context of valorization in the case of inflation. I think it is necessary to agree, first of all, on what we finally understand under the inflation we are talking about. That was also a bit of a debate between Mr Matznetter and your group. [[President Neugebauer is taking over again.]] You yourself mentioned the 558 special provisions referred to by the Court of Auditors, and I would have a question to you, Mr Dolinschek. There is such a strangely formulated sentence in your urgent request: ‘The cost shall be at least nine billion. Euro, however, is not known in detail in the absence of appropriate analyses as well as the effects of the special rules." We all know that 5.5 billion of these €9 billion are the favored tax of the 13th and 14ths. References are. Are you now in favour of the preferential scheme for the 13th and 14th years? Abolishing reference? What does the BZÖ mean by this very peculiar formulation? No, I'm just asking you what that means, how to explain what's in your request. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Do not mix apples with pears, Mrs Colleague!]] You will know what is in your request and what you meant by it – I hope so – if you bring it in. The second question I would like to ask you is: They write of fair taxes. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Make a request best, in writing!]] - No, I'm not asking questions. But You want to discuss it here, and therefore, I think, you can also ask questions about formulations that are not clear to you. Or do you withdraw from the discussion now at once? This is not exactly a parliamentary thought. You mentioned fair taxes here. I suppose that is the flat-tax model that has been mentioned by previous speakers over and over again. However, the problem with the flat-tax model is that it does not take any account of the conditions under which people earn their income – whether they have to commute or have a job on the spot, just to give an example. I would like to say to Mr Bucher, whom I do not see now: The least workers are able to negotiate their wages and higher wages with their boss or company itself. Thankfully, the trade unions are fighting in solidarity. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the GPA djp, in particular Mr Katzian, for having succeeded in pushing back the framework conditions at the Dayli chain so far that they want to comply with at least the legal provisions. But that already shows how important trade unions are in this state. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say to the BZÖ: A little bit of a problem with credibility You probably already have! Since some of you are sitting here, even in the government or in ministerial offices, we should look at the 44 burden measures you first set up as FPÖ and later as BZÖ together with the ÖVP in the years 2000 to 2006. There was a doubling of the energy tax, the motor insurance tax was increased by 51 percent, reductions in the health status were made, the doubling of the cost of the motorway vignette – we could continue this list now. That means you should think a little about your credibility if you make other people's preferences here. [[Abg. Pendl: Exactly!]] The aim of the SPÖ is to relieve the factor of labour, but it also involves a more just contribution of unemployment income, i.e. capital, in our budget. Let's see how the assets are distributed in Austria: The richest 5 percent of the Austrian population own 45 percent of the total assets, which are below 50 percent 4 percent. In Austria, only 2.3 percent of the tax revenue comes from capital taxes, with an average of 6.6 percent in the EU-27. Income from corporate taxes increased less than the profits of companies between 2000 and 2011. Tax revenue increased by 27.6 percent, but profits increased by 58.9%. I already have to address the question to our coalition partner: What do you not think is fair if we point out that this distribution is unfair and that it is at the expense of workers who, I hope, we want to relieve together, through the relief of the labour factor? Yes, labour incomes are taxed, and unemployed incomes must contribute to the federal budget. In contrast to you from the BZÖ, we can refer as government parties to the 2009 tax reform, by which we relieve workers up to €1 350, by which 160 000 persons in employment have been tax-free at once, but through which we have done a lot about the amount of child dropover and the amount of child allowance for children. But, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, even Mr Khol has just recently said that ÖVP's family policy has failed because money no longer comes to children, but one needs appropriate infrastructure, care facilities and assistance for parents. Perhaps you should talk to your President-in-Office about this. A word to the honourable Member – Mr Matznetter and Mr Rossmann have said it anyway: The level of social security contributions has a degressive effect, i.e. higher incomes are actually favoured. So if you are already using social security here, you should also take this aspect into account. Yes, we from the SPÖ are in favour of a structural and fair tax reform, and we are in favour of effective measures which, above all, also combat tax evasion and tax evasion, because we believe that all their assets should contribute to our community.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14514	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14536	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Silhavy, we should, however, consider a principle: Taxation should be taxed and distributed for me, and social security contributions should be there to make contributions in order to receive benefits subsequently, but not to redistribute. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Bucher rarely finds out what is called a “sager” in the political language, but I already liked the “High Tax National Park”. I'll use it more often. Minister Fekter, always trying hard, speaks of the high tax country of Austria – she has all the time – but it may also be referred to as the “High Tax National Park”. The most recent figures in the accounts show us, also in figures, that we are just this high tax country and that we should do everything we can, but not put one more on it. 42.7%, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, there is hardly any other country about it, most of the other countries are below it. Whether this is a medium-sized or not, the medium-sized is the big bearer of the tax burden. At the same time, this is also the difficulty: All of us would like to relieve the medium-sized, this group of taxpayers, but on the other hand, this reduces revenue very quickly in all its clarity. And there, I think, the Austrians, Mr and Mrs Austrians in times like this have a little more sense of the reality of life than the BZÖ. I do not think that the Austrians today assume that the place is there to reduce taxes, because the Austrians know very well that it is not so good to let the sovereign debt grow into the infinite. At the latest since the topic of Greece, the Austrians know that a state, if it is all too colorful for too long, then suddenly no longer gets money on the financial markets and, as seen, the state debt – Rogoff to or from – already has its meaning, namely whether a state can refinance itself or not. 73.4 percent of government debt ratio, 1.9 billion primary deficit, that is, we are in the right direction in the budget, but at the same time a primary deficit is also a sign that we are not yet where we want to be. Minister Fekter and we are planning – this is discussed today – a zero deficit for 2016, and to get there one has to consolidate. I know that budget consolidation always works best in reality when there is growth. Well, we have a little growth, more than the European Union, but the forecasts for the next few years do not go beyond 2%. So, in any case, modest growth can be expected. Save on the expenditure page – something we very much like to conjure up in Austria in Sunday's speeches, then from Monday to Saturday it is usually a little more difficult to implement. But you should already see that the stories stick together, that you also bring things into dry cloths, namely the tax revenue. So, as I understand every Minister of Finance, including the Secretary of State and the Financial Authority, so easily abandon revenue, you should not. So this is the question: Is the time to tell the Austrians that we promise you massive tax redundancies? - I'm afraid time's not here, it's not ripe. And the second question is: Should we proceed in annual steps, make an automatic progression fee, or not? – Since, I believe, our tradition continues to be the better, namely to enable the Minister of Finance to intervene in this area for a number of years, to relieve tax evasion. By way of tax relief: Mr Bucher is not in the hall. Mr Westenthaler, I have looked through your request, version 2, for safety reasons. That's where you left the numbers. I can tell you: It may be true that the seller loses € 124 in retail due to the cold progression in the year and the accountant or the accountant € 159, but these two professional types have received a tax discharge of €383 and once €735. Thus, tax relief through the 2009 tax reform has had a significantly stronger impact. I therefore believe that it is always better for people on this path – every few years and then a real step down – than in the form of an annual progression relief that does not fit into our tradition, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14587	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14608	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! There has been a great deal of talk about this report today, which is the current Court of Auditors report – Mrs Minister, also [[The speaker shall keep a copy of a Court of Auditors report up to date]] They have referred to this – and we now know that it is precisely 558 tax benefits that the Court of Auditors has examined and has examined for transparency, in terms of impact, et cetera. Especially in spring, it is always very interesting to deal with this issue, because spring is the time of the workers' complaint, where people deal with the question: How much did I pay too much tax last year and how much do I get back? For many, this is a very complicated matter, and it is not surprising, because there are definitions of the area, starting from tax exemptions over free amounts, the free borders, there are withdrawal amounts, packings, negative taxes et cetera. And all this leads to the development of a very impenetrable law over time. There are interesting figures, also in the report: The Income Tax Act, when it came into force in 1988, consisted of 42 496 words, and today, respectively in 2012 – the reporting period is 2012 – it consists of 84 910 words, so it has exactly doubled. The Court of Auditors is always very meticulous. This shows, in fact, that we have created a law that has been very complicated over time, and it is really the question of whether we really are still doing what Mr Bartenstein said before, namely that we should tax. We have also recently discussed a report by the Court of Auditors on family benefits, and it has also been found that in Austria we are granting the 200 different family benefits, but we do not know what we are doing or what we want to achieve or what we want to achieve. This is, I think, the problem in the Austrian tax system at all: We don't know what we can do with it in detail. And the citizen doesn't know. For him, all the terminology there is – free borders, free payments et cetera – no matter what, for him money does not have a mesh. For him, it's only crucial: What's left of me at the end of the day? What do I get back because I paid too much, what don't I get back? But that's just about the sum, it's not about the question: What's that? It is simply about the question: Do I stay more net of gross or do I remain less net of gross? – But this has clearly worsened over the past few years at the expense of the citizen. Mrs. Federal Minister! Sometimes I don't know if I'm supposed to laugh or cry with you, if you're making yourself up here and pretending you're taking all the things that have been made in the course of time, all at once, saying: Yes, you were right, you should do something! Other countries are ahead of us a lot! – That you are now praising all the constructive ideas that the opposition, but also others, have brought, so to speak, this maneuver is plausible. We know very well that you will not do anything in the next five months until the election – and now you are making yourself up and saying: The whole criticism was always justified, now I take it up and want to do something about it!, just to suggest to the people, something will change. – Changes will not take place after the election, unless you are no longer in the Ministry of Finance or the entire government is sent to the desert anyway what I hope. However, when it comes to the children, the families that you are so keen on – yes, of course we are doing too little for our children and for our families – then the problem is really – and that is the decisive – that we do not allow our young families to really decide what they want to do: either give the child into a care facility and go to work – who wants to do it – or – however, there is no or hardly the opportunity to choose – to take care of the children, to raise the child over a longer period than the first two or three years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is certainly not the case if you wish for two or more children and would like to have them. The free model of family tax division is, I believe, one that you need to discuss needs to talk about, because if there are families who want two, three or more children, Mrs. Federal Minister, then it must be possible to afford it without going to work for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have already talked about the fact that family benefits have lost a lot of value through the non-valorization. In recent years, child support has been minus 28 percent, while child care benefits have been minus 22 percent. What that means, everyone can calculate. Mr Bartenstein said one more sentence earlier: The Austrians have a feeling for the reality of life, for not to make debts. That means he has already defended the budget path for the next few years. But the feeling he meant, namely the sense of reality that we are promoting or saving Greece, that we are promoting Cyprus, but that we have no money for our own people, the Austrians do not have that, Mr Bartenstein. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a black sense of reality, and with that the population cannot begin. You will experience this in the elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14696	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14717	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Today, I have really listened to the “High Tax National Park” very precisely in the speech of our Mrs. Federal Minister. Mrs Bundesminister, I really ask you: How long is the ÖVP in the Federal Government? – With what you have given of yourself today, you give the impression that you have only been involved in this government for three days. Very briefly, to show once again the honesty of these ÖVPs: ==References== April, that is, two days ago, Mrs. Finanzminister, the president of the Tyrolean Chamber of Commerce Dr. Jürgen Bodenseer, under the title “President Jürgen Bodenseer sees false game with employees in KV wage increases in autumn” – I will now quote to you literally what your party colleague, the Chamber President of Tyrol, says. Dr. Soil pain says: "There will hardly be anything in the hands of workers when wage increases are negotiated. ‘Weil’, explains Bodenseer, ‘the so-called ‘cold progression’, is nothing but a hidden tax increase’. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, are you d’accord with your president's line? Bodenseer also says: "Employees deserve this wage increase! It can’t be that the Minister of Finance is taking them away from their noses!” I will give you this – literally quoted – which is an e-mail from the President of the Tyrolean Chamber of Commerce, so that you can see what your policy is worth and how it is valued in your own ranks. Mrs Bundesminister, I ask you, the BZÖ is asking you: Let us immediately make an automatic adjustment of the income limit, so that it really adapts to the inflation rate, in the USA there is already, in Canada, Belgium, Great Britain, the Netherlands, and something similar there is in Luxembourg, Switzerland. They refuse to do so. Mrs Minister, that can't be it! This federal government should be quick to think about whether it is committed to the working population or whether it simply wants to continue to shrink it. The whole price depends on the shopping cart. And, Mrs. Minister, the price is so high that people can no longer afford to live, that they have the biggest problems when buying food. It is enough to be carried around by this federal government on the nose. The biggest piece of the robbery, Mrs. Federal Minister, you have delivered now when you have come to think of making the decline of the acres of the fruit farmers. – Mrs Federal Minister, this is about 2,877 farmers. Think about it! It doesn't work for the budget, but the farmers are ruining you. Remember that and finally take steps and actions for our citizens!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14779	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14801	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear colleague Huber, dear friends of the BZÖ! I don't know why you always have to scream like this when you're here on this pult. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] The volume will probably not necessarily increase the quality. In fact, I find it unbearable how the Minister of Finance is being dealt with here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] If I hear of another very serious Member of Parliament, Themessl, "Dampflauderei" or of you at all, "Liarers", it is a bit bad – with all the understanding of the opposition and for the overwriting – and one should be moderate in tone, especially as Mrs Finanzminister not only from her training as a learned tax advisor and her life experience, but also as an entrepreneur knows very well what it is all about. The problem has been presented accordingly today. It's clear to us that we're a high tax country. We say that all the time also in the direction of our coalition partner, but still new ideas come again and again, how to increase taxes. The problem is also clear to us that we are a tax advisor in Austria. Of course, we want to change that too, but with us we cannot make a tax reform before the election that ends up in a tax package after the election. And I am sure that Mrs Financiers will have been doing their tax reform for a long time before this urgent request, which the BZÖ has made today, would work. If we are already in the cold progression, we must also make it clear that these are not only workers or wage earners, but also all Austrians who pay taxes, i.e. entrepreneurs, employers, landlords and, of course, pensioners. So this is not an exclusive problem of wage taxation, as you are. Of course, this can be solved by adapting progression levels to inflation each year. That's what some states have done, and you said it right. This balance of inflation may also be fairer for individuals, but of course the revenue for the budget is missing. And with the budget, it is not only because we constantly want improvements and benefits for our people, but also because of the cost. In my opinion, the prerequisite for a serious tax reform is a consolidated budget, and we have actually done so. I think if we keep up with this budget path, which we are discussing today, then we are on the right track. However – and there is no reason to rejoice – in 2016 we are still in a state debt far above the Maastricht border, that is, far more than 60 percent of GDP. I've already said it: The requirement for a tax reform is a good budget, and one could already take a small example of my native Tyrol. There we have a balanced budget – €3,275 billion. We even have a small surplus, we could reduce debts, and in Tyrol we have the situation that we have 276 million € debt and 6 billion € worth – TIWAG, housing promotion; of course, our country, also belongs to the Hypo Bank. [[Abg. May. Haider: That's where you have to laugh!]] And yet, although we have a balanced budget in Tyrol, we have also invested in education and research: We have put 80 million € in the MCI, the Management Center Innsbruck, there is a new HTL, the chemical HTL in Kramsach, there is a new bio centre. Total research expenditure increased by 36 percent. We have invested €9 billion in hospitals and health care in Tyrol in these five years, and three national households have entered it. 470 new reha beds were possible. And more than €40 million has been added to child care since 2008. So Tyrol is well positioned. I believe that many federal states could take the example of Tyrol. [[Abg. Wheeler:... Platter!]] We would also contribute to the efforts of the Minister of Finance to implement a tax reform which corresponds to their intentions. I have full confidence in our Minister of Finance. Let us support them in their desire to make taxes easier, less and more accountable, because then we are on the best track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14868	Mr Huber referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14892	Mr. Hörl, in his election speech, said that TIWAG would be owned by the state of Tyrol and the Tyroleans. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] – That’s wrong, that’s the untruth. The state of Tyrol, the TIWAG has sold the entire TIWAG with the cross-border business. Mr Hörl, you know exactly that!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14933	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e14954	Mr Hörl also said that in Tyrol everything is so wonderful – so that even four ÖVP lists have to be run, because one is so united in Tyrol. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Mr Hörl, I would remind you – you are a tourist speaker – of the air ticket, the abolition of energy reimbursement, the unsolicited resolution, the additional wage increases and the like. But it's all so wonderful and it's not at all necessary to think about taxes in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have heard it several times today: The Fiscus has at least €500 million in revenue due to the cold progression – on the one hand, €500 million in revenue, on the other hand, we are already a top tax country with a tax and tax rate in the international top field. We rank in places 6, 7, 8 or 9 – depending on the method of calculation, in any case with a quota of between 42 and 44 percent. And of course there is absolutely clear – completely clear! – that there is no willingness in this government to finally limit expenditure. We also see this with the item on the agenda, which is interrupted by this urgent request, in the Federal Financial Framework, because nothing is going to happen. There's everything in progress until 2017. The cold progression, Mrs. Federal Minister, will get worse every year, and you will buy it! You will also emphasize this by 2017! Austria has a legendary subsidy rate of 6.5 percent of GDP, with which we are world champions. EU cuts are 3.5 per cent, and in Switzerland and Sweden, 1.8 per cent and 1.7 per cent respectively. And, of course, it is not possible, as long as you raise the money of the Austrians in the south of the EU with both hands and as long as we make the highest subsidies. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On this occasion, the question was also allowed, which actually came from the debt brake and from the subsidy brake from the previous year. Even the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, made a clear demand last year and for a repeated reduction in subsidies from you. Nothing at all. The UBS study has even confirmed to us that Austrian and German incomes have fallen in real terms over the past ten years since the introduction of the euro – those of the euro crisis countries Greece, Spain and Italy have risen. That is why, Mrs. Federal Minister, it is really only lip recognition that you are producing here and regretting that the middle class is over-proportionally taxed and burdened. And not to take seriously is your wordable lamento over these 558 exemptions in tax law and that it is so difficult to change something or even adapt it to inflation, because then 50 other amounts need to be changed – and what you haven't regret everything. Mrs Bundesminister, you cannot be accused of not knowing what needs to be changed, because you have already mentioned all the areas where it is not true: Child, family policy, decommissioning of the middle class. For this, the Austrian receives a system of education, which is getting worse from year to year, and a health system with a two-class medicine, and on the flatland the infrastructure is neglected. And what are you doing? - Nothing! You don't lower the entry tax rate from 36,5 to 25 percent, you don't change progression levels, no, you don't do anything about the cold progression either. They even take the expropriation of savers, whether through negative real interest rates and inflation or even through expropriation as in Cyprus. That's what you're doing, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] According to Statistics Austria, the tax revenue of the Republic of Austria is now €86.7 billion. This is an increase of 33 percent over the past ten years, since the introduction of the euro. Social security contributions increased by 42 percent, with total government expenditure by 43 percent. Income increased by 33 percent, with expenditure rising by 43 percent. This government even manages to spend the money faster than it comes in. You have no interest in changing anything! This is your current account for Austria, Mrs Bundesminister, but the Austrians still have the opportunity to change this and send this unable and most lazy government to the desert this time. [[He-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] It is only to be feared that after a year in the desert the sand will go out there.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15063	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall come to the vote. We come to the vote on the self-employed motion for a resolution by Mrs Bucher, colleagues and others on: Down taxes – clear reduction instead of cold progression. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – The request is rejected. [[17:33:40]] Short debate on the reply to the question 13721/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15103	We are now coming to the brief debate on the question of the reply of the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 13721/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I am now looking for the honourable Member Mag. Schwentner as an applicant for the request to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15140	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I'm glad you're here, Mrs. Minister! I have a few questions about the “Ally Against Violence” project. I will then briefly try to explain what this is, but then you will ask us to explain what the project is, because there are a number of inconsistencies in a project that actually has quite a size – at least from the sum of the money that was invested there. First of all, very briefly: What is the ‘ alliance against violence ’? – This is a package of measures against violence. There is a flyer that appeared about two years ago. All actors active in the field of violence, prevention should be networked. Common solutions should be developed. The whole thing should be accompanied scientifically – so far as it is – together with the Federal Criminal Office, together with the Board of Trustees for Safe Austria and the Ministry. In principle, nothing can be said about it. It is a good thing to give everyone an overview of what is happening in the prevention of violence in Austria, and to network all actors. That's how it's going to be okay. There are then two tracks. For the first time in August 2012, we wanted to find out what was behind it, or would have interested us in what was happening in this project. The answers were already quite dissatisfying or not explaining at the time, so I am looking forward to your explanations or explanations on the project and what really happened. The project continued this year. It was said at that time that there were two sums, once € 100 000 and once € 90 000, without further explanation, where to go. – We only know that it was commissioned by the Lower Austrian Institute for Stress Prophylaxis & Salutogenesis – Salutogenesis is called Gesundwerdung; this for the explanation, because we have also looked at it again – it is led by the professor of the University Dr. Rosaud Perner. Mrs. Dr. Rosaud Perner was last known to us from the Staff Committee for Mr. Pröll. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] This institute, for which she works, is directly subject to the Lower Austrian State Academy. Mr Pröll has also given massive support to the genesis of this Salutogenesis Institute and was also involved as a supporter. - Yes, very well. [[Abg. Wheelers: Very good!]] On the other hand, one cannot say anything, although a performance arises with the amounts that flow. Only the question of this performance is and remains the big question. In addition to these sums, which have flown there – and I will then ask you more about this; it would be interesting to see what sum actually has flown – there was a second project. There has been a large symposium on this subject. Projects should also be awarded at this symposium: Projects that are active in this area, anti-violence projects. There has been a selection of a funding advisory board. There is a long report on this, which is totally contradictory and diffuse, which is why we ask that we give a little explanation of the course of the whole story. There has been a funding advisory board, but after a short period of time it has been remedied, because there have obviously been discrepancies. Finally, it was freely determined which two projects each receive €2 500 as a award for their achievements. 2 500 € each, i.e. 5 000 € in total, but not from the 190 000 €, or say in your answer to my second request – and there is the inconsistencies that I also ask you to explain to us – once, in 2011, it cost 120 000 € and then 90 000 €. Now, the following questions are asked: Was it once 100 000 € exclusive sales tax, as you indicate in the request answer? Why is the second sum in the same answer to the question 90 000 €? – However, this remains the same in both responses, namely €90 000 for 2012, but there is a different answer as regards the year 2011, namely once you give €100 000, once € 120 000. So we assume that it is about €210 000 with or without a turnover tax in total – and I ask for a more precise mention of the amounts of funds that have been collected – and I ask for clarification. I also ask you to clarify the question – that is one of my first questions – why this project has not been launched. It is obvious and the report by Professor Rosaud Perner shows that this mission was freely awarded. That is, € 210 000 in two years were freely awarded to the Institute of Salutogenesis & Stress Prophylaxis. You don't know why you didn't follow the tender law in this regard, which is that you have to register from € 100 000. Why was the sum of €210 000 divided into two years? Another question that you do not answer in your answer: This sum has been paid out quarterly, but not after the performance of a service, as one might suspect and as is usual in the case of works contracts, but this amount has been paid out quarterly in advance. So a completely unusual approach, because normally the sum is paid out when the work is done. Please explain why these sums were so paid out. Please also make a statement about the actual work of Dr. Rosaud Perner. There is now a six-sided report by Mrs Doctor. Mr Pilz will quote another bit of it. I have rarely read such a report, which claims to be scientific, a project report, and which also tries to understand the chronology of events. This six-page report is indeed a reading recommendation to all those who want to read a report of the failure of a project, funded with €210 000. This is such a controversial, absurd report, as it has not been accommodated yet. That is why my question on this matter is: What was Mrs. Dr. Perner really supposed to do? Did you provide scientific support, as stated, or was it responsible for public relations and the organisation of press conferences? It was obviously true that this project produced a flyer that networked a few people, but it failed again and again, as Mrs Perner himself describes. She has also tried to reach Members, so some of us, but she has never received answers. She has tried to connect national organizations with ministries. Actually, everything very good concerns, but it obviously didn't really work out for the various reasons. A homepage has also been created. It is also worth looking at, because this homepage does not explain anything either. There are criminal statistics, burglary statistics, but also statistics on car thefts. So it remains open to the question of the form of violence. The target group is diffuse. We have found that the project is aimed at children, women, people with handicaps, older people, families, but not men, for example. But I would say that both men and young men are very affected by problems of violence. There are the men's advice that fights year after year for the budget. I would like to say that there is a huge amount of money: €210 000, which I do not know where to go. I would ask you here for clear answers. This is an area which is constantly being threatened financially. There are many, many institutions, organizations that don't get the money they need, and that's about thousands of people! This is usually only € 1,000 or € 5,000. I could list a list of these if I had the time, how many organizations from the field of violence did not get any money, but they were looking for it. I would therefore ask you to make the following statement: Where was the performance? We know this question. Where was the performance for this huge project, and why did there come to be no tender? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15185	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15206	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am happy to answer all these questions. As you know, where a lot of light is, of course, is also a lot of shadow, and if we speak of violence, then there is undoubtedly a very large shadow. Violence affects us all, violence affects all of us, but this is not enough, but there is also a need for comprehensive action here. We often speak here of domestic violence, violence, among which women and children often suffer quietly, quietly and for a long time, but we also speak of violence against children and women, which often escalates in murder and murder threats. Every single fate makes me personally affected, makes you personally affected, but, as has been said, it is not enough on its own, and for this reason very many measures have been taken in Austria in recent years. I am thinking of the anti-violence law, I am thinking of the protection of victims that we have developed, but I am also thinking of the hundreds of measures taken by the individual institutions, organizations and NGOs. And precisely because of all these efforts, we have succeeded in finding both national and international recognition in terms of the protection of violence in Austria. We are in the truest sense of the word, not only in Europe, but far beyond. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A success key is undoubtedly the networking of all stakeholders, the networking of all those involved. I mean the networking and exchange of experience of police, justice, all ministries, the anti-violence centres, the women's advisory services, the women's homes and the various NGOs. And this networking, this exchange of experience, is at the heart of this project, “Ally Against Violence”. The Federal Ministry of the Interior has recognized this and has also tried to bring together and network all the prevention projects of the municipalities, the countries, the federal government. That is why my predecessor, some three years ago, launched this project “Ally Against Violence”, with the aim of reducing double-tracks, above all pooling the know-how and knowledge and, above all, reaching the point that everyone is getting on a line here. As said, the project “Ally against Violence” not only receives national recognition, but also international recognition, finds recognition beyond the party’s borders. And above all, I would like to encourage all the decision-makers, all the opinion leaders, all the communities, all those who want to set up a violence prevention project to implement such a project. For this reason, the coordinating body in the Federal Criminal Office was also established within the framework of the "Alliance Against Violence". Within the framework of this project, 300 alliance partners were brought into the boat, including ministries, countries, municipalities and numerous NGOs. More than 700 projects, initiatives and studies were reported in the framework of this project, and all these 700 projects and studies were evaluated and, above all, evaluated. Therefore: The accusations made by you, Mrs Deputies, that there is an overpayment here, because you paid € 190 000 without a turnover tax for a project “Initiative Against Violence”, I think that God is correct, because I say quite clearly: If we succeed in preventing only one act of violence with this project, then this investment has definitely paid off! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now to your detailed questions: Ms. Dr. Perner is a recognized scientist, a lawyer, a psychotherapist and psychoanalyst with more than 30 years of comprehensive practical and theoretical experience in the field of violence prevention. And because of the wide range of practical and theoretical experience in the field of violence prevention, it has a unique knowledge and a range of knowledge throughout Europe like no other. For this reason, Mrs. Dr. Perner is also always working with the various ministries, with the countries and communities, among other things, she has also developed the “violence-free Styria” project for the state of Styria. The order received by Mrs. Perner from the Ministry of the Interior is a spiritual service contract. This contract was reviewed by the department legally and objectively and was also awarded in the negotiation procedure. The disbursement took place after the success steps. In other words, after delivery, the billing has always been made. The project was scientifically accompanied by Dr. Perner for more than two and a half years. Ms. Perner was in contact with all the ministries, with all the countries, with all the mayors and with all NGOs. She assessed and evaluated over 700 projects and studies. It has prepared and held four major conferences. And she has prepared and led 40 expert workshops. In addition, Ms. Dr. Perner has developed three manuals with more than 240 pages. Each of these manuals is of course available for download. That means, the Quality, networking and professional preparation of prevention projects were the main focus of this project. And especially the manuals are a very important result of this project, because with these manuals a practical and simple guide, a practical tool was created for each and every one of the NGOs, through the authorities, to the communities, to every individual, to all those who have to plan or evaluate or evaluate a violence prevention project. It is also clear that this is not a simple study, but a scientific follow-up over a period of more than two and a half years. And if we succeed in preventing only one victim with this project, then this project has definitely expected, then every euro is a well-invested euro. The main focus here is on the quality of future prevention projects. That is why I also say a great and warm thanks to the Federal Criminal Office for the careful preparation and cooperation with Dr. Perner.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15284	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15309	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I should like to say: We all confess to the prevention of violence, that is no question at all! This is going through budget debates like a red thread; we've already started them and we'll continue them right back where we'll continue to experience them: On the one hand, the costs are criticized everywhere, on the other hand, it is too little in each chapter. That's it. That is the same thing I will also judge this question. You can criticize everything and question everything, that's not a topic at all, but you have to see the volume here, where you have tried to evaluate and merge 700 projects, to balance and control all the departments, the countries, the municipalities, the federal government, up to the NGOs, and that with all the normal costs, from the homepage to the ongoing operation. Of course, it is possible to question all of this not only, but also to criticise it, but I think that we would have quite different points about which we could really discuss. Not only I, but also my group, all of us are committed to the prevention of violence. I do not want to repeat what the Minister has said, and I am glad, Mrs Colleague, that you said this in the first place: This story makes sense. I know where it's going, I've been with a NGO myself for decades. Again and again we have the problem, but then we also discuss it differently, from me also in a different context, that of course it is also about who gets how much money. I am just saying this to the point. That's why it's really happening! Only, Mrs Colleague, with all clarity: When it comes to the prevention of violence, I am already in favour of the lives and security of people before I now fight with another NGO who gets more. I say that in all clarity, because somewhere we need to know where we want to go. And this is a serious issue, Ladies and gentlemen, we have now seen this in a different context in the discussions. I don't want to weigh this right now, women, children, we all know these issues, but I think that every cent is useful if violence can't arise at all, instead of trying to fix the consequences of the many sufferings of families, women or children. And so do I see this discussion. I just think you have to see the total, the volume with 700 projects, with all the departments and NGOs. Now you can criticize every scientist, everyone, it's just the question who has which access, but I believe that you cannot fundamentally criticize a scientific support of such an important project. But I invite you and your house, Mrs. Minister: Let's try to put things in a different way so important! Perhaps we can do this in the future by simply discussing it more widely. I also realize that there are some who say: We don't get any money for this, and we don't get any money for that, and then you get in the question and you say: But 200 000 € will be spent on this! That's human. We want us to solve all these questions together, and therefore I see a possibility for the future, that perhaps we try to explain this in advance. Then, I think, in such an important task as violence prevention, it will not follow up on such discussions or evasions – no matter in any direction. I don't like to say: In principle, the project is a good project. In principle, I think, we all confess to the prevention of violence. But perhaps we can deal with this issue with a little more transparency in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15370	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15391	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is an extremely good matter, this ‘ alliance against violence’. It's a shame it's being mistreated. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I believe that it is very important in the field of violence prevention – and I can continue seamlessly there, what my previous speaker said – that it is really targeted. I believe that we must actually say thank the Federal Minister and the Federal Criminal Office that 2010 has been put on a scientific footing, that evaluations are taking place here, that networking is taking place between state and non-governmental organisations, all who have to do with violence. I think that's very, very important. If we look at the fact that the fight against violence is taking place today in all its characteristics and in all areas of life, we must say that every euro that has been used and used here is actually a well-used euro in itself. [[Abg. May. Schwentner: We would like to know if it is well used!]] The goal is – I have already said that –: This work should be scientifically supported, it should be evaluated. And I think it was also right to use a personality here, which really has a broad experience in this field, in the theoretical as well as in the practical field, which is recognized across the borders and has really done an excellent work in all areas where it was used. I also believe that for these benefits that have been provided by it, these €210 000 are certainly not covered. The reason for this debate today is actually an expert dispute that has been played up by the media, where it has been explained, here money is wasted or here money has been thrown out. [[Abg. May. Schwentner: Nothing has been explained until now, that's the problem!]] No, I think quite the opposite is true: It is important to use the best and most competent personalities here and to use their work. I also believe that a very good work has been done here. It is also important that this service has been provided, because it is now possible to build on this provided service to the criminal police advisory service. He can also get the Ezzes here in order to inform the police population accordingly. One thing, I believe, is for sure that there has not been a waste of money here, and that the work done by Professor Perner is truly recognized and not to be criticised for itself, but that her thanks and recognition are to be expressed. [[Abg. May. Schwentner: Do you know that?]] In this sense, I would like to continue to wish this project all the best and much success.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15469	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15491	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I will start with Mr Kößl's comments. So he knows a hundred percent that was well worked there. Where was he everywhere? [[Abg. May. Schwentner: Exactly!]] What were you doing with? Where were you eyewitnesses, eyewitnesses of anything? [[Abg. Kößl: (Keeping the debate in height) Look at this!]] These pages are it? 210 000 €, I must say that the price at the Orange Advertising Agency for the Responsible Gaming Business, which we had in the Corruption Investigation Committee, was yes, an occupation. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's right!]] – I have to say: That's incredible, these photocopied papers! Now let's start! First of all, the Federal Minister said: Yes, violence and victim protection are important! – At this introduction I give her a perfectly right, there is no discussion at all. She also said where a lot of light is, is also a lot of shadow. And in the case of such a thing, where you make such a great project and put it very big in the spotlight, there can be a lot of shadows. It is precisely this shadow that is involved in this inconspicuous matter. It is not about – I have understood the request and also the short debate today – that the project is generally misrepresented. It's about the scientific accompaniment. Now my question is: What does that mean? Yesterday, on radio, I heard an official from the inner resort who said: She's got a qualification, that's a university professor, that's a doctor! – But now the problem is that a woman named Katharina Beclin said something is unclear. Who's Katharina Beclin now? A university professor and a doctor! That is, one scientist is accompanying and the other says, because of her scientific expertise she cannot see where it was used. [[Abg. Kößl: That's bad!]] But now Mr Kößl says: That's all right! [[Abg. Hornek: What kind of expert is this? What did she do?]] The outside expert is, after all, a criminalist who also deals with these areas, which were there at various events and does not see them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] Here you can do what you want, here it takes place at a level that is absolutely the same and equivalent in the field of science and experience. That it is not always that way with the forgiveness of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, we have only recently discussed it here. I now have to say a few things about the scientific accompaniment, which has happened and which obviously cannot be grasped. This is a spiritual direction. – What is that? Am I sitting there thinking? I read, do something. How can I measure that? We have also had people with mental services in the corruption investigation committee. These were those who did the services, but had no records, because they said that these services were all in our minds. These were certainly not as qualified as a woman's university professor, Perner, whose professional qualifications I do not want to ignore. I also do not think it permissible to say that Mrs Perner is in some form in a close relationship with the head of state Pröll or is there in any form a darling. After all, she is SPÖ County Councillor, on the SPÖ Landtagslist, the carrier of the Lies Prokop Women's Prize, and precisely because of her qualifications throughout Austria. I would not really see this one-sided, but Mrs. Dr. Perner has an absolutely good reputation and is here. Now it is only about whether one can grasp their present achievements, their spiritual services in any form. There is even a criminal procedure or investigation. I don't know if there's any criminal proceedings, because I don't have good contacts for that. Perhaps my colleague Pilz already knows. Maybe he's already had a work breakfast with the prosecutor's office. He's always got better sources of information about what's happening or what's not happening. I mean, It is not scientific accompaniment if, for example, I happen to sit with a university professor at a harbinger. Then I think I'll pay for a quarter. Don't cry anymore, because I'm in scientific support.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15600	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Pillow. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15622	You have inherited this project from my unestimated predecessor and current Minister of Finance. I am now referring exclusively to the final report by Mrs Perner, who, in my opinion, is wrongly entitled as a final report. You should actually write about it: Confession. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] It is the confession of a scientist that she wanted to perform a performance but could not do it because the ministry was not willing to say what to do. The Ministry was not even willing to receive a benefit. That's what Dr. Perner documented. The entire final report is in principle documenting an impossibility of fulfilling the benefits for which it has been paid very well. Now I'm coming to pay for a little bit. What did Mrs. Dr. Perner get? €210 000 for just over five pages, that is €40 000 per page. That means that she is more expensive than colleague Westenthaler and the Orange advertising agency, about a third more expensive. However, as far as press conferences are concerned, Mrs. Dr. Perner is significantly cheaper than Mr Rumpold, and we must also say that. At Mrs. Dr. Perner, two press conferences cost €60 000, at Rumpold a €92 000. So it's in the honorary arch between Rumpold and Westenthal, so it's in quite a remarkable neighborhood. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What happened? The confession of Perner reads: On 3 September 2010, the director of the Federal Criminal Office, General Franz Lang, called Dr. Rosaud Perner and asked her to attend the press conference with Federal Minister Fekter on 7 September at 5.30 p.m. and to inform journalists about the origin and consequences of violence. There was no project until then, there never was a project. The Minister just wanted to hold a press conference on something that had nothing to do with it. Of course, the press conference took place. As a result, Mr. Lang, who is currently working as a pharmaceutical representative on behalf of the Federal Criminal Office, has been passing through Austria and has tried to sabotage successful drug policy in Vienna and to bring in medicines from a group for which he works, the police who is resisting – but this is another chapter we will discuss – this BKA chief Lang said: Well, do a project! [[Abg. Unheard of!]] [[Abg. Hornek: Naughty!]] Then she says I'm doing a project. – That’s where he stands, the pharmaceutical and project length. – The minister let Perner make a project, it is announced. [[Abg. Hornek: Incredible!]] Mrs. Perner calls at the BMI and asks what the project is now. But she doesn't get an answer, no one's gonna pick up the phone. [[Abg. Kößl: Apologize for what you say!]] [[Call the ÖVP:The Social Smarot number one! Are you still living in a community apartment?]] ==References== In November, Ms. Dr. Perner asked and described how she asked the BKA chief Lang. Then she gets a recall on 5th, she's supposed to make a press conference again. The Minister now wants to present the planned coordination body. There is still no project, but first the initiative is presented – there is no project – then the coordination body is presented – there is still no project – and then she gets money: €21000,000. Then Mrs. Dr. Perner describes on many pages how she repeatedly tries to contact the ministry, but no one talks to her. Mrs. Dr. Perner wants to talk to the Ministry of Justice, no one's talking to her. She wants to talk to the parliamentary parties, no one speaks to her. Then the whole thing is done, and then it will hold two press conferences by €60 000. What's going on there? It evaluates and states: Unfortunately, few projects met the criteria published on the website of the Alliance Against Violence. Then ten projects are selected, and then the head of the board of trustees Safe Austria – that's all inside – and says we don't take the ten, I've chosen something myself. He presents her with a completely different project, and she has to present the project selected by the Board of Trustees of Austria, which she writes, that it certainly does not meet the criteria, because it is just a list of lectures, nothing else, but a winner project. Who is the chairman of the Board of Trustees Safe Austria? – Mr Hameseder, the Raiffeisen General Director. That is, the Raiffeisen General Director chooses a completely different project and says: Perner, give peace, you've got 210 000 € – that's 40 000 € per page, a really good price – we from Raiffeisen have selected the winner project! This does not meet the criteria at all, but Austria is thus becoming safer. Well, Mr Lang, Mr Hameseder, will certainly also be the budget of Mrs Perner, but what this has to do with the prevention of violence, ladies and gentlemen of this House, does not open up to me. That is why, when we talk about victim protection, there is one victim: the budget. The victims are the taxpayers. Here I'm pleading for victim protection. So that there is finally victim protection here, Mrs Federal Minister, we will look at this much more closely. Mrs Minister, you have not answered my colleague's questions or very elusive and very incomplete. You have tried to give some additional answers today. I suppose that's not enough. I suggest that we continue to deal with this together and look at it more closely, because you do not have this strange bacterial animal, in which you put in front of the grass and get out of behind ducats or euros. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] This animal doesn't exist. The tax money does not come out in the back, but the tax money is hard earned and delivered in Austria. And you have to look at this tax money! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] As long as tax money is handled in this way, Parliament must intervene, and we have tried this today. I hope we get another and this time a serious answer to clarify this waste of taxpayers' money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15741	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15763	Mrs. Federal Minister! Why do the Austrian People's Party and why always the Ministry of the Interior? I wonder now. Why is this sector always the target of actual and legitimate accusations in the award of contracts led by the ÖVP? Why do you have to deal with tax money in such a way, Mrs. Federal Minister? Explain Let's do this! Just a few weeks ago, why did we talk about all your orders to the ÖVP-nearly environment of advertising agencies and actually prove that the Austrian People's Party's Party's Party's advertising is being carried out here indirectly, and that with tax money from your place of business? And why is today the colleague Schwentner and colleague Peter Pilz providing evidence that your department once again gives orders to individuals in the field of ÖVP or SPÖ, and you do not even find it worth the effort to present a performance properly, Mrs. Federal Minister? I am not only shaken by this process, but I am actually shaken by the coldness of your answer. The questioner asks on 15 May. February under point 1: ‘Has there been a public invitation to tender for the award of the scientific support of the ‘Ally against Violence’ project or has the contract been freely awarded?’ Your answer to question 1 is: ‘The award was made in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Federal Procurement Act.’ You do not answer whether the contract was awarded free of charge, by direct award or by tender, you quote relevant provisions of the Federal Procurement Act. – Yes, which one, Mrs. Federal Minister? Which relevant provisions of the Federal Procurement Act do you refer to in your reply? This is not how a member of the government should deal with Parliament. It was found once and for all. [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] We are satisfied that, during this legislative period, ministers are bowing to the right of interconnection as they would like, but Parliament's control rights are on a massive footing, Mrs Federal Minister! We won't let that happen anymore! Then there will be a short debate on parliamentary questions on each plenary day. With you, Minister of State other than Darabos, it was the same thing. We hope that, in the future, Mr Klug will comply with Parliament's right of interconnection better and fairer than you did. They have also given Parliament such no-na replies and cold answers, without ever addressing the questions of the individual questioners in terms of content. But not only is it achieved a political dimension, a moral objection which we have constantly discovered in your place of residence here, but it is also a criminal relevance recognizable if Ms. Katharina Beclin, a criminal prevention expert at the University of Criminal Law, shows and claims that this is an unnecessary issue that could have been worth a maximum of €60 000. – I quote them: “In times of massive reduction of prevention projects, I can’t spend €150 000 without a return. And if there is no consideration here and the money is not reclaimed, this is at least criminally relevant. I expect the prosecutor's office to take this by itself in such a case." And I underline this: I expect the public prosecutor led by ÖVP Minister Beatrix Karl to take up this allegation of an expert and finally take the necessary investigation steps, because it cannot be possible that in a security area of the Republic such a proper handling of tax money is maintained, that we are faced in a number of ways with the direct use of ÖVP close to employees under the federal procurement laws and that this ministry and the Ministry of Security of the Republic are used as a washing machine for tax money on ÖVP lemmings. [[Call the ÖVP:Hö, hö, hö!]] We're not going to do that anymore! In the future, we will continue to throw a watchful eye on your place of business, but also on all the other ÖVP-led resorts, because what is revealed here in the Ministry of the Interior of the ÖVP is nothing but the Ministry of Agriculture is going on and there.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15815	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15837	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In principle, prevention of violence is a good thing and to welcome when it is done properly. Only in this case you really have to ask yourself: Where was the performance, Mrs. Minister? – You didn’t really explain that in your answer. The poor light in awarding practices in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, which is known to have been discussed several times here in this House – and I think it will not be the last time – is already questionable. If you can also read that Mrs. Dr. Perner, who has received this commission, was in the electoral assembly committee for Mr. Pröll, then, I think, this is a coincidence, or you may want to teach us that way. It's supposed to make everyone's own picture here. I think it has already been said a lot. You can speak a lot, Mrs Minister, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15876	No one is reporting on this. – The debate is closed. [[18:18:08]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15897	We will return to Agenda item 3 and start the negotiations again. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e15922	It would be good if Mrs Finanzminister were also present. [[Federal Minister Mag. Mikl-Leiter: I think it went to a coffee!]] She went to a coffee. Perhaps we can bring Mrs Financier here so that we can start the debate. [[Abg. Hornek: Of the Greens there is no one there!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Should we quote them?]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Mikl-Leiter: Mr. State Secretary is already here! You can start!]] The Secretary of State is already here. Thank you. Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to point out two points. One of these concerns this House, namely the division 6 of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is probably, I would say, the most important institution in Parliament, but it will be a victim of saving by the lawn mower method decided in the last federal financial framework. The upper limits of expenditure – the upper limit of payment – I have to say more precisely – will be slightly reduced from 2013 to 2016, but will still be shortened. It's going to be less real. On the other hand, the Court of Auditors' extended audit activities, extended municipal audit activities, increased audit activities in connection with the Media Transparency Act, with the Party Act, with the new federal budget law in the context of efficiency orientation and so on. However, despite these increased tasks, also the planning posts remain unchanged to the Court of Auditors. 323 planning points for the period 2014 to 2017. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Moser has rightly pointed out that, despite the reserves that have been made, a financial gap will arise from 2016 onwards. And that means that the Court of Auditors must take back its audit activity. – It cannot be that the most important audit body in this House no longer has sufficient money to carry out its audit activity. If we here in this House take seriously the fight against corruption and other audits by the Court of Auditors, it must be a matter of increasing the funds for this Court of Auditors and not reducing them. If, in the context of the audit activity, the Court of Auditors' proposals were to be implemented once again, this would be quite a reality. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow the Court of Auditors, the most important institution in Parliament, to be reduced here. [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] Finally, I would like to point out that from 2014 onwards, in the UG 46, where financial stability is concerned, the Vulgo bank package will be set up to EUR 133 million by 2017, and that, although we know exactly that an increased need for funds will be needed for the resolution of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, but also for KA Finanz AG – the Bad Bank. Commissioner Almunia is already putting pressure on the Austrians with regard to the Hypo Alpe-Adria, but also with regard to municipal credit AG. And when I've read the newspapers of the last days, it's about the fact that there's going to be a huge funding need for the Hypo Alpe-Adria: “The press” recently spoke of €4.4 billion, the “Kurier” spoke yesterday of €2 billion – and this federal financial framework law does not provide any money for this. This means, on the other hand, that if the Minister of Finance has not provided funds for financial stability and the resolution of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, a new government of this pack will be trained by chance and this predisposition will enter a new legislative period. And this, Mr State Secretary and my honourable ladies and gentlemen, cannot be so. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16013	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16035	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! I would have an important question at first, since I believe that everyone sitting here in this House, but also the people who see it at home, is interested. The colleague, Mr Jakob Auer said today that Raiffeisen paid € 570 million in taxes last year, as a bank as well as with all the shares. Mr State Secretary, I now have a question. The tomorrow edition of the “Kronen Zeitung” states that the Raiffeisen holding with all its holdings – like the Strabag, like the Agrana, as it is DO & CO – shows a balance sheet loss of €26 million. There is already a question as to how Mr Auer then came to the conclusion that € 570 million had been paid in taxes. – This is only the credibility of these ÖVPs. But, Mr State Secretary, where are the actions of this Federal Government, where is the courage to finally leave the wooden roads and to make a policy for our citizens, for the SMEs, finally stop small farms, ruin small farmers in their existence, finally take reforms, finally reform an AMA, finally set a new trend? Mr State Secretary, I hope that you are here, because we have such problems today, the smallest farms, the farmers have such problems. There is today a delegation of Styrian fruit farmers. Mr State Secretary, you are introducing new regulations, you are actually only creating new administrative structures, creating new systems. It has already been decided that the removal of the a hectare limit will strike the apple farmers in the assembly. These fruit farmers, these 2 800 farmers, Mr. State Secretary, are being seriously threatened in their existence. In recent years, 500 farms have had to close alone in the Styria, and more will be closed. That would be so easy to fix. I made a request today. I hope, Mr State Secretary, that you will talk to your group, that you will finally make a policy for small incomes, for small citizens who have problems in existence, so that they can be helped unbureaucraticly and quickly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But you can't do it like the mountain farmers. The farmers, Mr State Secretary, have to repay €64 million of funding they spent years ago. They have to repay this because the AMA, the Ministry of Agriculture, has provided tools for measuring the alpine areas that may have proved to be wrong. But one thing is clear, Mr State Secretary: This has only to be done by the Federal Minister alone! And if you are making such a policy today, you have to ask yourself whether this is with the establishment of a Commission, which is only about the fact that a former Commissioner can achieve a great additional income and the clients of the farmers are comforted until after the election, is not the wrong way. Take steps, take action, because we have to act there. Because one thing is undisputed: The only thing to blame for is the magic triangle, which is the peasantry with the chambers, the AMA and the ministry. For errors in the administrative system, it is not possible to make the farmers a victim. I just can't do that. Mr State Secretary, we are finally making a policy for our citizens! Let us stop sending billions to the banks, that we will decide one billion by one, but for the creation of new jobs with us, there is nothing for investment in the future! That's the wrong way. Since, Mr State Secretary, one finally has to understand that one has made mistakes, because this Federal Financial Framework Act 2014 to 2017 is totally impotent, leads in the wrong direction, and there we have to put action. Mr State Secretary, why do we not say, for example, that our banks are obliged to provide young families with loans to create homes, to build a house? Why don't we make funds like they do in other countries that run for up to 50 years? That's where we can make a state liability, and that's where we have zero risk. Families create property, we create jobs, the economy is going better, and the budget is being rehabilitated because more is finally taken up. In conclusion, Mr State Secretary: I am giving you today this request, which took place on 7 July. In May the Financial Committee dealt with the Styrian fruit growers. Step closer to that! - The clubman's head laughs. There you can see, the ÖVP is only worth a laugh. The existence of 2 800 small farmers is only worth a laugh. [[Abg. Head: You're a salmon number!]] This proves what you are doing for a policy, but the farmers will know how to thank you in September.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16083	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16107	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I will return to the original item on the agenda, namely the Federal Financial Framework for the years 2014 to 2017. I also have to follow the words of my previous speakers that this is a continuation of the wrong path respectfully a further description of the wrong path. It has already been carried out in part, but I have to deepen and repeat some points. There is no real health reform, no real education reform. The pensions are not insured. The cold progression – we have heard it in the debate of the urgent request – eats up a large part of the salary. People earn less and less, they have less and less money to spend. And the budget is burdened with special payments in sick EU countries. We have Cyprus. We have Greece. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that once again there has been an opportunity to really consolidate the budget, to really take a right course of savings and to take up important reforms. I now come back to the reforms, especially the administrative reform that the Court of Auditors has just referred to, because it sees that this is the only way to reduce debt. The vast administrative system is primarily defended by the two government parties with teeth and claws. Why is he being defended? For convenience or for fear, as he is a service post for party officials, for former employees, deputies et cetera. And if this supply device falls away, where do we go with the people? On the one hand, this is understandable. On the other hand, we are in favour of making policies for people to have a good and balanced budget and to ensure that people come out with the money they earn. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In addition to the Constitution, there is almost a second constitution in Austria, the so-called "real constitution". This is governed by alliances, chambers, political parties, so-called social partners and other powerful institutions, ladies and gentlemen. The compulsory membership of associations and representatives of interests – such as the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture – as well as the overmanagement costs of the economy, according to the Court of Auditors, €10 billion annually, ladies and gentlemen. That's what I'm at the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has already been addressed. Mr Rossmann of the Greens also discussed in detail the Court's budget. We have also discussed this often. We all know that the Court of Auditors must expect savings. The Court of Auditors is doing a good and important job as a control body of Parliament. I always say he's the guardian of taxpayers. And this Court of Auditors is now also expecting financial cuts. He sent a letter to the Minister of Finance about two weeks ago, where he drew attention to this problem again and pointed out that, when the budget is decided so respectfully when these cuts occur, he can no longer perform his work as sufficient and as far as he has done. What are we talking about? – There will be savings of up to €400 000 in 2013. By the year 2017, this gap which results from these savings to the Court of Auditors is already € 3.7 million, ladies and gentlemen, dear. And It must also be legitimate to ask why these funds are cut short. Do you want to kill an unloving critic? Do you want to “punish” the Court of Auditors, under quotations, to show what is going on in that country? That's his job and his job. So here, ladies and gentlemen, if you are financially restricting Parliament's control body, you are not on the right path. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I'll be right there. The Minister has also raised some problems in her speech. It also knows where the problems lie, where there is need for improvement, need for change and need for action. Only, nothing happens. President Leitl has expressed his criticism of this, and the industrial association has also made a statement confirming our criticism. As I said, the Court of Auditors has already made seventy proposals, the 599 recommendations on administrative reform. – ‘administrative reform’ will probably eventually become the unword of the year, because as often as this word is, I think, no other word will be strained. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary, you are now the only representative on the government bank, take these words seriously and do something! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16177	Next speaker: Mr Elmar Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16201	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is easier to talk about a federal financing framework, about areas where you can invest, where you say there are offensive projects of the government, than about saving, so necessary that is in different sub-areas. I have the role to play in discussing an area that, from my point of view, is a demonstration project of this government. There are still some – there are getting less and less – who say that there is so little in education policy. But it is increasingly understood that with what is available in addition to the countries within the framework of the budget framework – for language promotion, for infant care and so on – one has made additional investments with the New Middle School, with the new Matura, with the funds for full-day care, which bring us where we want to go, namely that we take measures so that no child can stay on the track in the future and that we can promote all children as far as possible according to their talents – as we always emphasize here. Therefore, I believe, this budget framework, whose sum guarantees us more than 1 billion additional budgets in education compared to 2012/13 alone in 2008, that we can continue and expand the measures we have here. That is, the government's requirements were clear. We want to improve quality, improve equal opportunities. And with all these measures we have been very impressively successful so far. But we also want – and that, I think, is one of the most important projects that we now have and which is also secured with the funding – the re-establishment of educational training. Again and again it is said that the teacher is at the centre of the school. And with this new pedagogical training, in which we want to promote optimal cooperation between pedagogical universities and universities, we create the prerequisite that the new generation – it will be over 50 000 teachers enter school in the next nine to ten years – in line with the new findings of education science and can implement what we have already set out by law at our schools. One last thing: Mr State Secretary, I would also have liked to say it directly to the Minister for Finance – since I know that you could conclude this very quickly – so I ask you to tell her that, an area is still the right to serve. And if we close the budget framework and say that beyond that, nothing goes anyway, and we know that we can make offers in the current framework of the teachership so that we can now switch to a new salary system, then we should take advantage of the opportunity. I also mean – especially appealing to a certain part of the teacher's union – that now would be the better time to negotiate properly than immediately after the election. And I hope that we will also bring this last major project, which we have undertaken for this legislative period, under the law of service and remuneration. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16247	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16268	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Since we have already discussed possible fiscal measures with the Dringlich today and today we are debating the Federal Financial Framework Act 2014 to 2017 in the first reading, we should consider a few key points again. We have also discussed this morning about the fact that every unemployed person and everyone who is not needed is one too much. But we also need to look at a little, as we have tried in recent years, but here we are better off than many other European countries. At the same time, of course, we need to consolidate our budget in such a way that we also have the necessary margin for future expenditure. If you look at what the forecasts look like, then it should be very positive that in the next years, 2014 to 2017, we will have a positive primary balance each year, which was not always so obvious in recent years. The debt rate will also be reduced to 60 percent thanks to God. It is a shame in this context that we have not succeeded in bringing the debt brake into the Constitution, because it would have been very important for us to have a value, namely, the 60 percent. I would like to talk again briefly about the debate on the tax reform which we have held today in the emergency. I mean, and I think we all agree in this House that we must first look – and Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter talks about it again and again – so that we can reorganise our budget so that we really can bring together clear redundancies for people, workers, workers, families, but also entrepreneurs who provide jobs for workers. We have to relieve the factor of work and think about how we can come out of this – I almost say – case that someone who, for example, deserves €400 gross already has the full social security obligation. He's supposed to get all the services, that's not a question at all, but it's just a big burden on people. It is important to consider the same as the reduction in the input tax rate of 36.5%. Finally, I would like to confirm that it is very, very important for us to pay off the family in the event of future tax relief. Mr Rossmann! I still believe that it is necessary to relieve especially those families who pay the largest share of wage and income taxes in the state bags so that we can afford a 30 percent social rate – and that is to say, we confess to the social state – in the long term.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16307	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16329	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Tamandel, you have looked back into the past and said: We have to ask ourselves how we have managed to get there better than many others. I can tell you that. This is because we are permanently unwilling to admit the truth to ourselves because we are constantly tricking our statistics. Let's just take the unemployment rate: According to Eurostat, we have around 4.5 percent unemployed. There are over 70 000 training participants not covered. It is also not taken into account that over 80 000 long-term unemployed are not included in statistics. If you would take them with you, you would know that we already have almost 500 000 unemployed. Neither do they say that, nor do they agree that we have the youngest pensioners in the EU. Youth unemployment is about 48 000 according to statistics. We are not willing to admit the 30 000 hidden in AMS courses, ÜLAs and so on. If you are based on the effective figures, we are no longer as good as you always claim in unemployment statistics. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As long as we do not acknowledge the truth as we really lie, this federal government does not see any reason to change anything at all. That's exactly the problem we have. If you address the Federal Financial Framework, Mr State Secretary, then it is a continuation of the previous policy. Yeah, that's nothing else. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: Thank God is so, especially as far as the unemployed are concerned!]] You didn't take certain things into account. And now I'm asking you a question: Is there something like a Plan B with you? I would like to give you the following explanation: So, in principle, it is positive that a financial framework law is made over several years. In order to do this, we must assume that it is the employment rate, whether it be economic growth and, and so, the employment rate. There's a lot of factors to play with. What do you do if your assumptions do not vote for this financial framework already in the first year – we are now taking the year 2013? [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: That's not true!]] In 2013 you assumed an economic growth of 2 percent. In reality, economic growth will be 0.7 to 0.8 percent. That is to say, certain numbers do not vote. Then there's something else to add. To what extent are the bank savings packages included in this financial framework plan? What happens if there's the next crash? What happens if the ESM demands? How far does this affect the financial framework by 2017? That you save the banks, the banks in the meantime have a great deal of joy with it and thank you too. According to today’s “Economic Sheet”, the following has happened: The Austrian banks are committed to further intensifying the corporate lending guidelines. That's the so-called credit terminal you haven't wanted to realize for years that it's really a fact. In reality, the whole thing is getting worse now, and you are not doing anything about it. This whole financial framework is characterised by zero ambition, by zero zeal. What would happen if you started the reforms? What would happen if you only made a major reform every year, which the Court of Auditors has been proposing for years? In the case of a little ambition and a little zeal for work, it might be possible to achieve a zero deficit already in 2015. However, there is nothing to read about. What happens when the job engine breaks away small and medium-sized enterprises? If you read the “Economic Sheet” there it says: The local middle class breaks away as a job engine. In the meantime, we know that the burden rate on business profits for SMEs is already 53.1 percent. There we are in an international ranking, created by PricewaterhouseCoopers, of 187 nations that have been rated, say and write in place 140. In Germany, on the other hand, corporate taxation or the tax rate is 46.8 percent. Of these, 21 percent are additional labour costs. In Austria, of the 53 per cent, 34.7 per cent are additional labour costs. If you do not counter it, then your entire financial framework is not right. I would like to know about you: Is there a plan B? There is a plan B everywhere, because creating a financial framework for four or five years based on assumptions that could not then arrive remains vague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16384	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16406	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The starting position is not necessarily rosy at the moment. The economic forecasts are somewhat poor. The labour market situation is tense. Unemployment is increasing. Even youth unemployment rose by 8 percent compared to the previous year. The government is now presenting the Federal Financial Framework 2014 to 2017 and sets two important objectives in the Strategy Report. One goal is higher employment. The comments are targeted offensive measures to ensure the economic location of Austria. And it's done: In addition, investment is made in universities, research and development. - That's how it is done. Mr State Secretary, the right measures have been taken to launch appropriate offensives. Future investment is what we need now. The government itself has set it up in its FTI strategy, in its 2011 research, technology and innovation strategy, which has also been decided here that Austria should become a leader in innovation. And the strategy report says inside: long-term. That's interesting! What does long-term mean? It sounds like the government's task when it defines goals as long-term, where for years it has always been the talk of pushing forward from the Innovation Follower, from the sixth place to the Innovation Leaders, to the first four. What has happened in recent years? - We lost a place every year. That's not a snapshot, it's de facto a series, and we're slipped down from 6th to 9th place. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the danger! That's a trend and it's not a snapshot anymore. Now I come to the future investments recorded in UG 31, science and research, UG 33, which is the research part in the economic sector, and UG 34, which is the research part in the BMVIT. What's going on there? – These are in 2017, all summarized to say and write 8.7 million € less. Less in this period! If this is offensive, ladies and gentlemen, then good night! That can't really be your serious thing to call such a thing offensive, as an impulse for the economy, an impulse for a secure future. If you still take into account the inflation rate you adopted in your strategy report by 1.7, 1.8 percent, you will have a massive real reduction in investments in such important future areas. This real decline is also visible in another area. As total expenditure in the budget increases by 4.7 percent from 2014 to 2017, the share of these three key areas of research in the overall budget is falling from 6.03 percent to 5.75 percent. That, ladies and gentlemen, is pathetic! I have to say that now, because that is indeed a bad sign of future development. It is not just research, innovation and technology, where we will have a huge problem, because of course today's research brings the jobs of tomorrow. It is also about future investments in climate change and environmental protection. If you look at the UG 43, the environment, that was €735 million in 2012. Then it has fallen, and in 2014 it is only €630 million at all. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a dramatic decline which is taking place here in such an important area as climate protection, environmental protection, which is also about exciting green jobs, which we consider very necessary and which your Minister for the Environment Berlakovich always carries out as a lip commitment. Mrs Colleague, I said earlier that it is just an administration of the status quo, in the field of many future investments a significant step backwards. It's quite clear: This budget, which de facto manages a status quo, stands for standstill, means step back, and we must prevent that. We need investment in the future, we need a redesign of the budget, and we need to work on it in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16467	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16488	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the Federal Financial Framework Act is, if you wish, a two-part one, because it is interrupted by a longer debate of the urgent request and the so-called short debate. That is why I can also sit there and take away what we have been discussing on the subject in the afternoon. It is not my direct predecessor, but the two Members who have spoken about it have, after all, somewhat confused or misrepresented a few things. The Federal Financial Framework, which, in order to say this clearly, covers the years 2014 to 2017, and not the year 2013 – which is covered by the last year’s financial framework – is prepared on the basis of the latest Wifo forecast. Each year, therefore, the Wifo forecast is always used to draw up the financial framework with all its aspects as regards labour market figures, employment rates, unemployment rate, inflation rate and economic growth. So it's not a numbering, that's what I'm talking about. the Ministry of Finance or politics, but it is a numbering work that supplies economic research. From this we can also calculate how the financial framework will develop, and then, of course, also determine which political answers it needs. What are the key data? – It was also said here: The deviations in the Wifo forecast compared to the last financial framework are relatively small. So what are the key factors in growth? – For 2013, i.e. for the current year 1 percent. This increases in the following years to 1.8, 2.0, 1.8 and 1.9 percent economic growth. This is not the very big economic growth yet. We would wish for more and, of course, also rely on politics to achieve a good and perhaps more growth. However, it must also be said in the context of the average forecast growth of the euro area as a whole. The fact that, according to economic research, we are going to have an economic growth higher than in the rest of the euro area also shows that we are in a happy situation, which, in my opinion, also has to do with the political framework that we have set. What the Wifo also predicts to us is that unemployment will not, unfortunately, fall to the extent that we would like it to be. However, the trend in the next few years will still be down, and the trend in employment will be upward. In this spirit, this financial framework has also been created. It is about a growth-oriented consolidation, namely that economic growth remains stable, that employment remains stable and is strengthened and, at the same time, the deficit is reduced, that it will continue. This is a way of boosting the economy, which is also a sustainable way of securing stability. This also means that in 2016 we will be able to achieve a balanced budget after Maastricht accounts, and in 2017 we will also achieve a structurally balanced budget after the new European calculation. If one compares that the European Union has 11 per cent unemployment and Austria is less than half the average unemployment in Europe, and this is related to a stable budgetary development, which is also below 3 per cent deficit in the last year, then it is clear that the way this government has gone to deal with the crisis is a more correct one, and one can say that this government has brought Austria relatively well through the crisis. Conversely considered: What did others do that we didn't do? – We did not raise mass taxes, we did not have to increase VAT, we did not have to be unilaterally reduced as in many countries, and even on the other hand we were deliberately opposed to economic packages, investment in education, health, thermal rehabilitation. The discharge of the labour factor at the beginning of this period of government of €3 billion has of course also marked the overall financial framework. The question has also been raised as to how the financial system will continue. Not Austria's banks – you have to formulate them properly – but the banks that we have had to state and save are, of course, still a challenge with many question marks. Therefore, the political response must also be pursued, namely to drive forward financial market regulation. Already under review has also been a draft bank insolvency law. Now that all assessment opinions are being received, it is also good to see that this can be sent and decided to the House at the end of this legislative period, but still in this legislative period. Similarly, European banking supervision, the regulation of credit rating agencies, hedge funds regulation and their national implementation are important points in this context. Many spectators at home, many people ask politicians whether the crisis is over or not. Confronting that the crisis is completely over, it cannot be given seriously, even in view of the economic data given for Europe, for the world economy, for other economic areas. It is particularly important, therefore, that we continue consistently with this financial framework, namely to combine investment and growth impulses with economy savings in the future. This will create the opportunity for what we are particularly concerned with stabilising employment and creating new jobs. If we are going to succeed, and this is what this framework provides, it is also a good way for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16561	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16582	Mr President. High house! Mr State Secretary! In contrast to your comments, Mr State Secretary, and those of the Minister for Finance, we of course represent a completely different opinion from the BZÖ, namely: This federal financial framework law is another declaration of bankruptcy of this failed federal government. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] All of them were preoccupied with severe criticism, because all perspectives, such as a sensible tax reform, are missing. Last Monday during the debate on the wrong Cyprus aid, the Black Finance Minister Fekter from the government bank confirmed that Austria is a high tax country – and that is the disaster. I repeat: Austria is a high tax country! – That should be changed! We from BZÖ say: Get down with the taxes! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: Up with the debt,?]] That's what we've been discussing today. This failed federal government has, for a long time, thrown people down enough. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: Get up with the debt,?]] People are horrendous and angry. Many of them can no longer afford daily life and are vulnerable to poverty. They see tax policy as the cause, especially the taxation policy of the EIAs. This is dog-wrong and a real disaster. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Over 81 percent of Austrians already believe that the tax system is not fair. The Austrians demand a new tax model. We from the BZÖ with Josef Bucherhagen, namely, the solution, and this has been beautifully provided today. We demand an immediate tax reduction and fair taxes for all. Only through fair taxes do people have more money for daily life again. This failed federal government, ladies and gentlemen, is well advised to adopt the BZÖ model. This federal financial framework law sets the wrong impulses. Our debts continue to explode. Above all, the ÖVP as the nation's debtor lives at the expense of the next generations. [[Abg. Grillic: Who?]] In fact, the ÖVP immediately affects every newborn with a debt of € 32 000. It's an insanity. The citizens are properly eaten because they are abandoned by this federal government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] [[Abg. Grill: the BZÖ only 1 percent!]] This government is paying taxes on pleite greeks and speculators on the financial markets. This week the wrong Cyprus aid was blessed. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: Why don't you say anything?]] We from the BZÖ note: Enough paid! Enough paid in wrong channels. Our tax money must remain in Austria and be used meaningfully! Therefore, logically, we will reject this new Fekter’s financial framework from the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16696	The next speaker was Mrs Csörgits. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16717	Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already a mistake to say that this federal government has failed if one is living in a country which, thanks to this federal government and targeted measures, has experienced the lowest unemployment and the second lowest youth unemployment. [[Abg. List: Is she?]] This is very far-reaching, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. List.]] This has not come from somewhere, but it has been taken up by very targeted budget resources so that we can stand today as we stand. And that we don't care what happens to those people who don't have a job simply shows that in the budget chapter 20, work, also the expenditure limit of currently €6.41 billion will be increased by €450 million by 2017. This is not something, because the money will be used to continue fighting unemployment and to help people get back into the work process through targeted measures. And that is important and necessary, very valued ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Secretary of State has already said this: It is forecast that employment will increase, but there will also be an additional supply of labour; and since we have also decided to reform the I-Pension in this House, it will be necessary to provide assistance to this additional group of persons. As part of an active labour market policy, it will therefore be necessary to focus in particular on women's participation in employment, to focus on giving young people a guarantee through teaching and training places that they also have a future in our country, and to ensure that targeted measures will also make it possible for older workers to remain healthy at work. We have not done anything in the past, but we have done a lot, for example, “fit2work”, the health road, the training guarantee, the educational care and, and, And this targeted, good path will also be defined and continued by us in the future. It is also important for me to point out, in the context of budget resources, that, as in the past years, it is also important to ensure that, in the context of equal opportunities, the principle of gender budgeting in the field of the labour market is continued. 50 percent of the eligible funds for labour market promotion are used again for women in order to facilitate the return to women in order to set up qualifications measures and also to qualify women in those areas, such as crafts and technology. All these measures are covered by the existing budget. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, increasing employment also makes an important contribution to the people living in our country, and on the other hand – and that is very important to me – increasing employment is also an important point in relation to government revenue and, finally, an important point so that we can continue our good social system. That means, it's a win-win situation: People in this country have something of it, the state has something of it, and social security also has some of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16779	The next speaker was Mr Wöginger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16800	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The location determines the position, and of course this is always expressed in budget debates, even though we are actually talking about the federal financial framework for the coming years. However, a number of statements have to be made here. My colleague, Mr Csörgits, has already done this, but we do not really want to leave it that way by the government parties. First of all, we have to ask ourselves the question: What country are some opposition politicians talking about? If you listen to them, then certainly not from Austria, ladies and gentlemen. I do not understand at all why our very good economic characteristics and labour market data are misrepresented here. There is no reason at all to do so. We are the political leaders in our state and should also be pleased if we have good figures here! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would also like to support this: We have the lowest unemployment rate, and that has been the case for over two years. Of course, unemployment is also rising with us, but unfortunately it is rising across Europe, but we still have the lowest unemployment rate. We have the second lowest youth unemployment rate, and, ladies and gentlemen, we are envied by other European countries by our dual training system. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: people don't believe all of this!]] We bring more young people into employment than in all other European countries. That is why we should also be proud of this system that young people are increasingly finding a job, a job, than is the case in other countries, including Europe! And because it was also claimed by Mr Themessl that the reforms were missing, no reforms were made: Ladies and gentlemen, last year we decided on a consolidation package, which we all remember. All Austrians will contribute in the next few years so that we can consolidate the budget. And if it is said here that no reform has been carried out, it is simply and simply wrong. We've backed back the promotions, we're saving at the ÖBB, there's a 7 billion package at the pensions, ladies and gentlemen. We have tried very hard not to intervene, especially with those who are just before the retirement, but rather to secure the system in the long term. Our pension system is one of the best in the world, but we have managed to save 7 billion in the next few years. [[Complementary of the Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti]] There are, of course, changes in this area. Tomorrow, the health reform in this House will be decided: a cost reduction path; not savings, but costs will be dampened, measured at the percentage of GDP. An administrative reform of €2.5 billion has been decided, and we have also closed tax gaps. Tax gaps, which were still in place, which were quite unfair, were closed with this package. It seems that the billing tax, the Swiss agreement, is no longer mentioned. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is simple and simply not correct that no reforms have been implemented. We, this Federal Government, we from ÖVP and SPÖ here in Parliament, are leading this country into a good future, namely that we will again have a balanced budget in 2016 and that we will then again be in the positive zone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Petzner: Ha, ha, ha!]] It's important to mention this. Finally, a contribution to the offensive measures: We are saving – yes, Mr Petzner, you can save this for a speech in Carinthia, because it is not necessary. [[Abg. Petzner: will we talk about it today!]] In here, it is not appropriate to spread such nonsense. We do not save the state, but we have also planned offensive measures in the field of universities, in the field of education, in the field of schools, in the field of research funding, in the field of young companies, in the field of thermal rehabilitation. The care fund will be extended, up to 2017 there will be € 650 million in addition, and we have also found a solution for the counterparts, which we have already adopted here in the House. Ladies and gentlemen, these are measures that will help us to secure our economic location in the future, so that jobs can be secured, and so will prosperity for the future in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16887	The next speaker was Mr Jury. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e16909	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! According to the statements made by Mr Csörgits and by Mr Wöginger, one has to say that the fairytale hour goes on. [[Abg. Riepl: Yes, now with your speech!]] I can still remember how Minister of Finance Pröll and Minister of Finance Fekter told us that this Greece aid should be a business for the Republic of Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these forecasts made by the WIFO and adopted by the government are just forecasts. If I look at the fact that in 2012 7 billion deficits were generated, then I have to say, this is a bankruptcy declaration for the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This declaration of bankruptcy, of course, exudes on our municipalities, which have to deal with and carry out foolish tasks. And if you know that the municipalities are a huge investment factor and this municipal investment has also fallen from €1.7 billion in the last two years to €1.5 billion, then there is a risk of delay. We're talking about volunteer fire brigade equipment, where volunteer firemen put life and life at risk. I think it would only be cheap to support this voluntaryness properly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am talking about childcare facilities, which are simply being counter-cared by the Republic through its VAT reform, through the pre-tax deductibility of school buildings. I am talking about art communication programmes, which are particularly important in rural areas and which are designed to keep the population in rural areas as well, so that it can not only be a recreation area in the future, but also a working and living space. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tadler.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in total, this Federal Financial Framework Act is based only on forecasts. I hope and wish us and our policy that these forecasts will come. But if I look, on the other hand, at how much money we send through Europe, and especially to the south to maintain sick states where there is no willingness to change the system, then I am very concerned about this Republic. [[Calls:Kärnten]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17000	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17021	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Financial Framework, in this case until 2017, has the basic intention to carry out a long-term strategic planning and focus on the federal finances. This is actually the meaning of the financial framework, as it was created and decided. If one now looks at the existing numerical material and work, it is noted that this original intention is not taken into account in any way, but this federal financial framework is considered an annoying exercise of duty, which has nothing to do with reality. I would like to make this very specific, because it has always been the case that there has been a fall in "cards", and I would like to point out an example, ladies and gentlemen, that we - listen, Mr Hörl - listen, please listen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] . We are faced with the fact that the EU Commission, the responsible Commissioner for Almunia, threatens to force the Austrian non-state banks, primarily the Hypo-Alpe-Adria, but also the municipal credit, to deal with billions of burdens on the government budget over the next few years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] [[Abg. Hörl: Haider and Co!]] And if one now looks into this federal financial framework and checks whether these very likely scenarios were taken into account in any form, then one finds that this was not taken into account in any way. Zero euros, nothing is intended for this area at all. This is grossly negligent and also shows that the Federal Government and the Ministry of Finance do not mean it very seriously with this federal financial framework. [[Abg. Riepl: that you have destroyed the bank! You were there!]] I am not alone with this claim, but this assessment also shares the Green Group. This can be seen from reading the “Kurier” today, where the colleague Kogler rightly criticises that the Federal Minister of Finance, Fekter and the Ministry of Finance, have not taken any precautions for these threatening billions of subsidies. I would like to take this very concretely and have also said here that what is threatening Austria can have unforeseen, unimaginable effects on Austria. We are talking about billions of money that would cost alone a forced handling of Hypo Alpe-Adria by the EU Commission. The figures of the Minister of Finance mentioned in the media reports assume a sum of €4.4 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that I know that within – perhaps the Secretary of State can confirm this – the Ministry of Finance or the relevant bodies also have quite different figures and invoices, and that there are case examples that the hypo-Alpe-Adria alone could cost up to €11 billion – €11 billion. Look now You are looking at the budget figures and then you know what a dramatic effect this would have on the Austrian budget! - That's right. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Arbitrator.]] But there is a case-by-case example that calculates this. – In this respect, it is not only irresponsible not to have taken any precautions in the federal financial framework, but much more irresponsible for the Austrian Federal Government and above all the Minister of Finance Fekter since 2009, since she also has the responsibility for this State Bank, to show no success at all and in no way has the government and the competent government succeeded in ensuring a reasonable reorganisation and a reasonable settlement and sale of both the Hypo Alpes-Adria and the municipal credit. This can still be very, very expensive to us, and I warn you already today to push this into the shoes of the Federal State of Carinthia. Since 2009, the Federal Government has been responsible for this bank and will also be responsible for the period from 2009 to 2013. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Second point: The Minister of Finance must be accused of having acted extremely unskillfully at EU level. I know that Commissioner Almunia has sent Vienna to serve once again, when Mrs Fekter comes to Brussels, he immediately lets the bank deal with it, because Mrs Fekter did not open the doors for an extension of the deadline through her policing, untiplomatic appearance in Brussels, but rather closed it. That is why I also appeal to the Federal Government that this Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria should be declared the chief issue immediately and that this agenda should also be withdrawn from the Minister of Finance Fekter! [[Abg. May. Darabos: You have the bank and you say the Federal Government is to blame?! I've never heard anything like that! Who put her on the wall?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] Because she does not become the chief cause and can continue to drive Mrs. Fekter around as she pleases, so this can have a dramatic impact – I have called the threat of billions of costs – on Austria. And it would simply be unresponsible to continue working like this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier.]] Mrs Finanzminister Fekter has already demonstrated with the management that she is neither willing nor able to ensure an orderly settlement of the Hypo Alpe Adria, but also of municipal credit, but also of the Volksbanken. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Brandsticher Feuerwehrmann!]] Mr Darabos, because you have been so excited about it: I don't blame the SPÖ at all, I also make the Secretary of State Arbitrators at all do not blame, but I believe that the SPÖ was even deliberately guided by the ÖVP behind the light and misinformed. [[Abg. Riepl: You should blame yourself! It would have failed!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darabos.]] I believe that the ÖVP, your government partner, has never told you the truth in the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria, but also local credit. She just put you in here, like the whole Parliament here. Mrs Fekter has been shown to have misinformed Parliament. I would also like to prove this specifically with a document I have come from Germany from Munich, and I would like to compare this with the statement made by Mrs Fekter and Mr Pröll here in Parliament by Mr Finanzminister Pröll. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] I have repeatedly asked the question in numerous parliamentary questions and also here, Mr Darabos, now it will be interesting, now you have to listen. –: When did the first talks with the BayernLB occur, and when did the Austrian Republic and Finance Minister Pröll – then – become clear that insolvency is threatening here? – The answer was always the same: in Novem-ber 2009. Mrs Finanzminister Fekter has explained here both in writing and in oral terms – and we know how the law of interconnection looks – that the first talks with Munich took place in November 2009. This document from Munich, ladies and gentlemen, strongly demonstrates that both the former Finance Minister Pröll and the Finance Minister, Fekter, have deliberately and deliberately misinformed Parliament. [[Keeping the same text in height]] Secondly, this document proves that former Finance Minister Josef Pröll has repeatedly fulfilled the offence of false testimony, ladies and gentlemen, because Pröll has also said what is the official wording of the ÖVP Ministry of Finance, always: November 2009. What is in this document, Mr Darabos? – I would like to show you personally. [[Abg. May. Darabos: Other side!]] [[Abg. May. Rudas: (pointing to the ranks of the ÖVP) Over there!]] – This is an internal management document of the BayernLB of December 2009, a status report on the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria. This document is not available in Austria at all, and I would also like to make it available to Mr State Secretary for arbitration so that he can read for himself how the ÖVP has misinformed him. This plan has four contents: Point 1: Measures since acquisition, point 2: Restructuring project, point 3: Special Examining Credit Portfolio, point 4: Sales negotiations and point 5: Conclusion and appreciation. And point 4, sales negotiations, is very interesting. This is the crucial point: So when did these sales negotiations with the Republic of Austria begin? In this strictly confidential document of the BayernLB on page 4! Title: Talks with the Republic of Austria. And now we see whether it is true what Mr Pröll, under the duty of truth, has said in court and in the Kärntner Investigation Committee. Is the date of November 2009 correct? Is the date of November 2009 that Mrs Fekter named? Mr Bartenstein, is that right? What's black on white here? I quote from this BayernLB document: Point 4: Talks with the Republic of Austria. Since August 2009: Beginning of talks with the Republic of Austria. 25. August 2009: Meeting of Minister of State Fahrenshon, Dr. Kemmer with Minister of Finance Pröll to the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria. - Quote. August 2009! And this document is proof that Minister of Finance Pröll said the untruth in court, said the untruth in the investigation committee, and Mrs Finanzminister Fekter misinformed Parliament in reply to questions. That's going to have consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already sent an appropriate presentation of the matter to the public prosecutor, because it cannot be a matter of a Finance Minister acting in such a way as to be unfair and that a Finance Minister in this case, Mrs Fekter, misinformed Parliament. [[keep another document up to date]] [[Abg. Rädler: The arsonist!]] And if that is true, Mr. Col. from Lower Austria, what is black on white in this BayernLB document, namely that in the summer of 2009 there were secret talks between the Bavarian CSU Minister for Driving and by chance the Austrian Minister of Finance Pröll with the exclusion of the coalition partner SPÖ, then the whole story you have designed here with the pleite of the Hypo does not fit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] All of this only broke out in the short term in November 2009, and the BayernLB suddenly jumped overnight. It was time-consuming that it was necessary to state the whole of the state that it was not different. [[Abg. Rädler: Rewrite the story!]] This whole construction coincides with a stroke like a card house, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am prophesying to you here and today that there will still be a great deal, because these are not the only documents I have brought with you from Munich, and that Mr Pröll will still need a lot of explanation. In that respect, ladies and gentlemen, I also warn you to misuse the theme of Hypo Alpe-Adria for your election campaign. That could be a terrible boomerang, especially for the ÖVP. Don't grab hold of that, because there's a pretty building site together! We'll discuss all of this. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] All this also shows, not only that the ÖVP is acting very dishonestly, but also how dramatic the overall situation is, how negligent it is not to have taken this into account in the federal financial framework, and how much information work can still be done on the real background of the emergency nationalisation of the Hypo Alpe-Adria. We will not come around to set up an investigative committee on this issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] For one thing is certain, this is out of dispute, now it is only about the following: It is clear that the Hypo Alpe-Adria will cost taxpayers at least 4 billion – others up to 11 billion. The question is: When? The question is: When?- Oh, my God! Ms Fekter is now trying to reach together with others at EU Commission level to get time for the whole by the end of 2014 so that the whole thing doesn't break out before the election in autumn and there is no ÖVP scandal and no tax scandal in a range of €4 to 5 billion before the National Council election in autumn for the ÖVP. That's your goal. [[Abg. Rädler: You can't save the Haider either!]] In reality, however, this is the Austrian taxpayer, and for the Austrian taxpayer, the continuation of Mrs Fekter's policy on Hypo Alpe-Adria means that by the end of 2014 at the latest – for more time we will not get from the EU Commission – this billion-debakel is up and these billions will be spent on the Austrian taxpayers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] That is why I can only appeal once again, also to the Secretary of State, together with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, to fight for the withdrawal of ÖVP and Mrs Finanz-minister Fekter. [[Abg. Rädler: The theme remains with you anyway!]] The Minister for Finance has failed and misinformed Parliament. Hypo Alpe-Adria must be declared the chief cause of saving tax money for the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17298	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17319	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Petzner, what is really up to your accusations will soon be clarified, as you yourself say. [[Abg. Petzner: The Procuratorate! - Oh, my God! It's already running!]] If one recalls who was the cause of the hypo-debakel in Carinthia, namely your party friends, then one cannot resist the impression of holding the thief strategy behind your speech, but, as I said, it will soon be clarified. [[Abg. Petzner: A German bank! It was a German bank! Since 2007! A German bank!]] But perhaps in the debate we will return to the real issue, namely the Federal Financial Framework Act. If you hear some opposition speeches – not all but a few opposition speeches – then you are amazed at the rather undifferentiated assessment. I can certainly agree with colleagues who say that they do not know what country is talking about, because if one reads the opposite – and sometimes it does quite well – I can only recommend this as counter-therapy – foreign media and there the assessment of Austrian budget policy, economic policy et cetera, and above all their impact, where Austria is increasingly regarded as an example, classified and deputized, such an assessment is, I believe, very important here in the House. It is necessary to keep in mind the economic framework in which we are moving and what the rules are set out in this Federal Financial Framework Act, namely for budgets, crisis management budgets and consolidation budgets. And if you keep in mind the key data such as growth rates, low unemployment – especially important in international comparison is the low youth unemployment – low indebtedness, you can see that the policy of recent years is actually to be measured in successes. And this is due to the successful changeovers, political change that the Federal Government has set in recent years. It is also important that the Federal Financial Framework ensures that investments in education can continue in the next few years, from the extension of childcare facilities to the continuation of the reform process at schools, as well as in universities, the situation should be further improved by the continuation of university billions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17367	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17388	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators! The word also applies at the late hour: No growth is possible without stable public budgets. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: It's not that late yet!]] What we need, therefore, is budgetary consolidation, also at half past eight in the evening, as well as at nine in the early morning and as tomorrow again at nine in the early morning, if we want to have budget resources for a growth policy that is also driven by innovation. This budget bears the handwriting of two government parties, who acknowledge that the most important engine will be the innovation in the future: Engine for a reasonable employment policy, engine for a good development of our companies, engine also for good youth employment. And the prerequisite is that the quality of our education system will continue to be safeguarded and expanded in the future. There have already been clear signals in this regard today, which will also be available in the next few years: the success model for dual education, the success model of secondary and higher schools, but also the success model of our universities. And they don't need a comparison to be shy. According to statistics, Austria is one of those countries, one of the top five countries investing in research. Our research quota is one of the top 5 European countries. This does not mean that we do not want to increase further, but it is once again a nice sign to get proven with official data that it makes sense to invest in research and development and that this is also reflected in our low unemployment rates. What is important in this budget framework? – It is important that we not only reach an agreement on consolidation and offensive measures, but also that we reach a social consensus on the contributions to study. Because we must not forget that we could gain € 230 million in addition to science, research and teaching, if we could also achieve a social consensus in this regard. This budget framework only gives the framework on the basis of the existing consensus, a preview, but of course the budget can also be improved if we reach an agreement, especially with regard to student contributions and tuition fees, if we reach an agreement also in the area of access schemes, the reasonable management of our capacities at universities, in order to achieve a corresponding growth process with our universities. I believe that today's budget framework, which will be presented to us, will be discussed intensively, but shows that innovation is an important concern. Some reform measures must be implemented jointly. In conclusion: One year of increasing the actual retirement age and getting closer to the real statutory retirement age would bring € 1 billion. I also wish these billions for the innovation engine Science and Research.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17425	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17446	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager hoped for consensus on social policy in terms of study fees and student funding. Socio-democracy is calling for a reasonable, stable policy in which we do not require entry fees from people who want to start studying. These are things that do not come into question for us Social Democrats. With regard to study fees, there is certainly no social consensus with SPÖ in this form. Mr Schieder has already said it. What do we need? – A stable budgetary policy to create investment frameworks in order to also make a forward-looking policy. In the course of tomorrow's debate, we will decide on the legal framework for health reform, something where Minister Stöger, together with the country representatives, social security and the Minister of Finance, has managed to take a consolidation path in the framework of health policy, which seeks to do the same. For the first time, we have managed to put patients at the centre of the plans so that they will be tried to use the funds with a common target control so that they can really get where they belong, namely to the patient – please? – But I am now speaking about the financial framework for health. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: This will be negotiated tomorrow eh!]] You can listen to it. I'll tell you again tomorrow, maybe you'll get it a little better than you're going to do today after my remarks. In any case, we will decide a lot tomorrow in the health reform. We are currently spending just under € 1 billion on health a year. It contains quite innovative stories as well as the roll-out of ELGA, the strengthening of prevention and the attempt to keep people healthy in working life for longer – as already described by my colleague Csörgits in various projects running from the BMASK and on health promotion and prevention. All in all, I think that we have gone a not always easy way of fiscal consolidation, that we have known ourselves to comply with tight frameworks in order to have opportunities to continue investing. We have succeeded in the field of health; I think that is a success of the Federal Government – above all a success of Minister Stöger.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17489	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17510	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm saying Austria's in good shape. We have found in Austria the better answers to the economic crisis than others. Of course, we have also been affected, but we have managed these effects better through a wise policy than others. The gross domestic product per head is 26 per cent higher than the EU average, the projected growth is 1 per cent, compared with the EU 27 0.4 per cent. Unemployment is 4.9%, compared with the EU 27 at 10.8 percent. I think these are already data that indicate that we have made a good policy. Austria is also exemplary in fiscal consolidation, the 3 percent criterion was already fulfilled in 2011. This was achieved by two years earlier than required by the EU. In 2012, both the Maastricht deficit and the debt ratio were maintained at 73.4 percent lower than planned. We therefore want to: that this reform strategy of the Federal Government is continued accordingly. Achieving the stability of public finances is a real priority in policy. A well-balanced Maastricht outcome is planned for 2016. In 2017, there will be a surplus. The structural deficit will fall to 0.45% of gross domestic product by 2017. The debt ratio is expected to fall to 67 percent by 2017 and 60 percent by 2020. A total of €78,584 billion and deposits of €78,791 billion are foreseen for this Federal Financial Framework Act, which now adds to the year 2017. This means a budget surplus of € 207 million. I can still take agriculture as an example, and this area will not be increased either. Nevertheless, it is important that long-term planning is possible, because farmers need these charges if they are to provide the services in the future. They need long-term planning. I should therefore like to express my warm thanks, above all, for the co-financed funds, for the support of Vice-Cancellor Spindelegger and Federal Chancellor Faymann, that they agreed that farmers will be able to recover fully from the Brussels funds for rural development even under changed co-financing conditions. In contrast, the Federal State of Salzburg, where the Burgstaller-SPÖ had intended a scrapping of the farmers by €30 million a year, would have been able to secretly enter into the text part of the State Budget Act 2014: The financial resources provided for in this Act for EU co-financed expenditure on Salzburg agriculture may only be used in so far as they provide for the minimum funding key agreed with the European Union or the Federal Government. – Thank you to Wilfried Haslauer for preventing this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury.]] We will be discussing the Federal Financial Framework Act accordingly, I believe, in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17575	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17596	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have heard some opposition speakers here, you really wonder what country they have spoken about. I have every understanding of subject-oriented criticism, no subject at all, but we should not go as far as some of them are doing here. You can look at the whole of Europe, you can look at the whole world and use it to compare it, but I think that the Austrian Federal Government and also we, with the right and necessary decisions, have clearly best mastered the financial and economic crisis. That's not a question at all. Every single unemployed person is one too much, but one cannot discuss it away, so that there is no longer this topic. And in both European and international comparison, we are excellent in all parameters. We must not hesitate, we must do our work, that is no question at all. This government has undertaken – we have done this together – to achieve a consolidated budget over the next few years, and we need to work on it. I would also like to make it quite clear that everything is still too little for each budget chapter to do so. Everyone says that too much money is spent, but everyone wants more money for their favorite area. How's that going? I am only allowed to take a short look at my area of internal security. We have a budget that is not bad, of course it could be better, but it's good. And when we made a move to create more 1 000 planning posts in this legislative period – in the legislative period! -, everyone laughed. Everything is too little for everyone, but it should cost nothing. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is not going to happen. Dear colleague Petzner, don't be angry: I have already seen many cabarets and had already been in so many theaters, but only to pull over the sanriers and not to lose a single word about those who actually caused the disaster, which is already humour. [[Abg. Hear: That's right!]] I'm telling you this in all clarity. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Don't always start with it, because it's a kind of turnaround! All those who are now trying to save what is to be saved every day are going through the cocoa – but not a word about the causers. You can now repeat it so often, in the meantime nobody believes it anyway. Only: It won't be better. And I mean, we don't need to have the discussion at this level. We all know and don't need to present the stories like at the Tschauer stage here. Ladies and gentlemen! We will have enough time to discuss the various topics, and we are called upon to work together on them. Mr State Secretary, I think we are on the road very well in the individual areas. We are going to discuss this very objectively, and I am going to discuss it very hard, and we will not only have a good financial framework for this our country, for the Austrians at the end of the day, but also, above all, a healthy budget, which will provide the necessary room for innovative investment, as we have also done together in the coalition negotiations and in the government programme. In this sense, I am already looking forward to the forthcoming discussions.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17639	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Windy. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17660	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! When I consider the subject of federal financial framework law diametrically, Helmut Qualtinger comes to my mind. Perhaps you know his famous saying, which was at the same time the most pointless, where he says, in the “Wild on His Maschin”: I don't know where I'm going, but I'm there faster. – It makes no sense to give gas on the one hand without knowing where you want to land. The Federal Financial Framework is just the opposite. He's a guideline, a path to the right goal. Together with the Stability Pact, together with the debt brake, we have the plan where this journey should go. First of all: We need growth. The WIFO predicts a rise in GDP from 320 billion to €368 billion in 2017. Secondly, We need reforms, which is also quite clear, in the case of double-tracks, in the structures. And last but not least: We need, above all, investment in growth, particularly in the areas of education, research and development, infrastructure and, above all, in employment. Employment and growth are, as it were, one twin, the couple, the hand in hand. I believe that since the crisis in Greece and since the over-indebtedness in Cyprus, people now have different access to debt and, above all, debt. They have seen in the media and learned that they can very well meet the debt of their state with corresponding cuts. For the first time, a long-term outlook is also being made in this budget period, because the EU also requires it to be up to 2050. It may already be that the media think, even because of the many parameters and variables that can change, that this wide look into the future is almost a look into the crystal ball. But I still think that we have to look at the trends, developments, yes, the swivels and the dangers so that we can keep our budget path. There is also a worst-case scenario of the WIFO that is forecast: If nothing happens, it could well be that we have a five percent Maastricht deficit in 2050 and, in turn, a debt ratio, a 90 percent debt ratio. Of course, that must not happen. There is also – perhaps you also know this expression – the normative force of the Factic. You can't spend more time in the long run than you keep taking. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] – Except you're making debts, but we don't want them to rise more. This federal financial framework law gives planning and security, and it results in stability and order, which in turn can satisfy the need for security, the basic need of people, a central and quite legitimate need. That is why our group agrees with this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17703	The next speaker was Mrs Binder-Maier. 3 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17753	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The Strategy Report sets out challenges for the family. On the one hand, that changes in the family sector need flexible solutions, and on the other hand, that it is undisputed that child and youth support services are recognised, important and necessary. This strategy report also mentions that the State's financial transfers, such as family allowances, childcare allowances, travel aid et cetera, are a financial compensation for the maintenance burden for children who are not yet self-sustainable. In order to ensure the compatibility of work and family, the financial framework for the Article 15a contracts is still important and necessary for the development of childcare. This report also mentions the promotion of non-profit organisations for parental education, violence prevention and other measures. As important as I am, the last paragraph seems to me that consolidation measures in particular ensure that these family-politically necessary services continue to be secured by our national funding system. The aim, ladies and gentlemen, must be to stabilise the family benefits provided to children, to families. On the other hand, we also need to have room for change and restructuring under the changed conditions. In my opinion, there are three pillars that can help make a life worth living: Employment, growth and income. And it can't be that those who work hard have a low income, but it doesn't pay taxes or taxes, so to speak, to the prangler and are disadvantaged by systems. I therefore support, as my group supports, the demand of the Minister for Women for the implementation of family support, away from the amounts of redundancies, allowances, to three main points: If we shatter the system, we simplify the payment of the cash to the families, we increase the family allowance and we take money into our hands to extend the childcare. That would be more than just. In this context, it is also worth mentioning that the compatibility of work and family must be an essential part of our political considerations – the conditions for people have changed – with the aim of ensuring that childcare becomes an educational institution with uniform quality criteria. Ladies and gentlemen! It would benefit 2.3 million children, around 2.3 million families in Austria, and therefore a clear commitment by my group to these promotions and measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17811	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17832	Ladies and gentlemen! The OECD published the report a few weeks ago on how much official development assistance Austria has paid. It was not very famous in 2012 0.28 percent of gross national income. That is, movement up is quite appropriate. The working group on Global Responsibility has held discussions in recent months with a total of 113 Members from this House. Of these, 104 were of all political groups, 92 per cent are of the opinion that the cuts in bilateral development cooperation should be taken back. This position of the large majority of Parliament is also reflected in a five-party proposal, which we decided in the framework of the budget in November, in which we invited the government to provide for an increase in the funds for bilateral development cooperation in the Federal Financial Framework Act 2014 to 2017. This has not happened now by increasing this approach of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which does not have to be, because there is a lot to be done in this area in terms of re-transition from one area to another. And we also know that in the field of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there are about 68 million in the reserve, and this can also achieve an increase in bilateral funds. I am sure that we will find a parliamentary way of clearly documenting and supporting our will to the Federal Financial Framework Act in this sense and thus really increasing the financial resources for the ODA in 2014. We, very many Members of this House, support a proper provision of the bilateral EZA in the interests of thousands of people around the world, who, with the support of Austrian development cooperation, have access to clean drinking water, opportunities to use modern toilet and sanitary facilities, who have opportunities for education that benefit from rule-of-law structures or through our development policy commitment, have the opportunity to enjoy their full human rights. I would like to express my full thanks to this large majority of Members, including the SPÖ, the ÖVP, the Greens, the BZÖ and the Stronach team, who are involved in these policies, which are committed to the importance of taking on responsibility worldwide, that international solidarity with their confessions actually live and say: Okay, it's clear, we're seven billion people on this earth, we're gonna have to live together peacefully, we're going to share the resources we have, fair and just! We face these global tasks, we take them seriously! – And that is what we will document with this Federal Financial Framework Act. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17875	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Magistrate. Gäßner to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17896	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A brief replica on the comments made by Mr Eßl, who was obliged to put a side shift on the SPÖ Salzburg. I would recommend that the President of the Salzburg Eßl Chamber of Agriculture take care of his pastures and take care of them, which are very difficult situations because of the European Union's recoverys. It should prevent these recoveries from being transferred or rolled down to the pasture farmers to ensure that they have a future that can be planned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] When we consider that these false accusations against the peasant farmers come from the advice of the officials of the Chamber of Agriculture and the AMA, he has a lot of tasks to give his farmers planning. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, BZÖ and Team Stronach as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] A comment on the UG 42 in the Federal Financial Framework Act, Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management: In the strategy report, I read: ‘Implementation of structural reform in the field of wildlife and avalanche cultivation (location concentration)’. – I do not know how to carry out a site concentration in the area of avalanche and wildlife cultivation. However, we should be careful not to prevent this authority from taking action against disasters and, above all, working in a preventive way. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] Secondly, I read: “Congregation of Bundesanstalts”. – Time and again, every year, almost like Christmas comes, the federal institutions in the field of agriculture together. Which are these? – These are the Bundesanstalt für Mining questions and the AWI, the Federal Institute for Agriculture. They cannot be combined from the objective, because the Bundesanstalt für Miningernfragen (Federal Institute for Mining Questions) is an essential research institute which is recognized throughout Europe and which deals precisely with the difficult regions and the people who are doing their work there, the miners, and they should continue to be able to do so. I also do not know what to save there, except to think of canceling people and disbanding these institutions at all. I am in favour of this, and I hope that the next government will also take a stand against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17965	Mr Magistrate. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Haider reported. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e17987	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! After these jubilee speeches, it is now really time for you to be brought back to the ground of Austrian reality again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This budget plan is not a plan, it is the continuation of a massive robbery, and that is not only what I am saying, but it will guide all economic journalists in this country and, in this case, the editor-in-chief of the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” Gerald Mandlbauer, who has been considering himself in an editorial last week, which the opposition politician Fekter would say to the Minister of Finance Fekter on the presentation of this Financial Framework Act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] This budget is not a plan, it is a continuation of a massive robbery. – This also applies to the address of Mrs Kuntzl, who has already felt obliged to use foreign media to defend this unambitated continuation of the 2012 budget framework by 2016, because she did not find a single commentator in Austria, who would have found only a good hair on this thread, unambitioned continuation. According to Statistics Austria, the tax revenue of the Republic is now – we have already heard it a few times today – €86.7 billion, which has risen 33 percent over the last ten years, and expenditure has increased by 43 percent. You spend the money really faster than it comes in. And you have to say it again and again: the highest tax burden in history and nevertheless the highest debt of all time. We are currently at a debt ratio of 73 percent in terms of GDP. But it will not remain, ladies and gentlemen, because the reform of EU statistical rules will further increase the debt level, namely, the outsourced debt of the ÖBB and the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, for example, and these will be added to the government deficit. Therefore, the credit rating agency Standard & Poor’s concludes in their calculation that the debt will increase from 73 to 77 percent of GDP. But this increase does not find any precipitation in the financial framework presented here. Nor do we find any precipitation – and we have heard it today – the 80 billion liability for ESM, EFSM, EFSF and so on and so on. Nor is there any precipitation, and this is all the more interesting, the liabilities you received a month ago for the financial stabilisation facility of the Member States whose currency is not the euro. Behind this bulky title is the shadow ESM, which has been doped with over 50 billion, with which you Bulgaria, Romania and, as soon as it joins, Croatia also want to save. You don't stop with the euro states either, no, no, you want to save everyone with our money. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as I have begun, I conclude with a quote from Gerald Mandlbauer, “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”: “What Mary Fekter said to Maria Fekter: . Stop me with that budget lie. In fact, you don’t clean up anything.” – Quotes.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18050	No one is reporting on this. I therefore close the debate and assign the government template 2251 to the Committee on Budgets. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] I don't know how You have this Croquis, but probably the club secretary has misinformed you. [[20:04:28]] 4. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 2238/A(E) by Mr Josef Bucher, Mr Ing. Erwin Kaipel, Gabriele Tamandl, Elmar Podgorschek, Mag. Werner Kogler, Elisabeth Kaufmann-Bruckberger, colleagues on double taxation for tens of thousands of pensioners (2267 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18107	We're coming to 4. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18135	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that this motion for a resolution, which is carried out by all six parliamentary groups, is being adopted here today. What's this about? – Briefly explained: It is about those 150,000 pensioners who live mainly in the border states to the Federal Republic of Germany, whose pensions have now been taxed for two years. The Federal Republic of Germany has decided that the pensions paid abroad from the point of view of Germany will be re-taxed, including retroactively until 2005. This, of course, has caused some confusion among the persons concerned. I'm from the Innviertel constituency, from the Schärding district. I live in this border region. With us, thousands of people are affected, which we and also the senior organisations, whom I would like to express, support as much as possible in filling out the forms. It must be imagined that a 70-year-old, 75-year-old, 80-year-old pensioner or a pensioner of the same age are hard to fill out these forms in such a way that, at the end of the day, what is to come out according to German legislation. I expressly stress that this is not understandable to many representatives of the older generation, that is not something we have decided here. The Austrian State or the Austrian legislator cannot do anything for this, but Germany is taxing those pensions that are paid abroad because Austrians have just worked there in their working time. What does this six-party resolution request include? – An ombudsman is set up. Next week, it's supposed to work everywhere. At the financial offices, at the border finance offices, it is already possible. Experts are currently being trained, who are also familiar with German tax law. This is extremely complicated, even difficult to compare with our tax law. There is limited tax liability and unlimited tax liability. It is also difficult for a person dealing with this subject to understand where a tax is now applied or where the tax exemption is applied. Furthermore, we have the problem here that thousands of Smallest Pensionists receive German pensions of 100, 200, 250, 300 € and besides an Austrian pension. One example is the question of double taxation. If a pensioner now has an Austrian and a German pension, for example, amounting to € 700, i.e. a total of €1 400, then the tax rate, i.e. the period of progression, has been determined by taking both pensions into account, but only the Austrian pension has been taxed with the tax rate. This question is also open. That is why I also expressly thank the Minister of Finance for sending a group of experts from our Ministry of Finance to Neubrandenburg 14 days ago, because the Finanzamt Neubrandenburg is responsible. This is certainly not the fine German way, if you can say so, although we work very well with our neighbours in and for ourselves, but logically you have not taken a financial office in the border region, since you obviously knew that this would probably be stormed. That means, Neubrandenburg is responsible. Therefore, Maria Fekter has sent an expert group with section head Nolz to the top of Berlin to clarify these questions, such as double taxation issues, or if, for example, a pensioner who has a small pension has paid a tax prescription, although the amount would actually be free. It's, as I said, a complex matter. There is now the possibility to roll it back so that the amounts can also be returned. Tax law should be applied in the same way as is laid down in the law in Germany. This, I believe, is a very important information for the citizens concerned. We have really used ourselves to do so, including those Members who live in the border regions. I would also like to mention everyone here, especially the seniors' associations, especially the seniors' associations of my group, so that this ombudsman's office can be set up here, so that we can also find out if a tax applies, yes or no, and, above all, that these forms must be completed, so that this is also a discharge for the pensioners concerned. That is to say, from next week this office, this ombudsman, will run everywhere. There is also an e-mail address: deutsche-pension@bmf.gv.at. Many thousands of pensioners have God thanks to Internet and e-mail access and can therefore use this possibility. As an Austrian legislator, as Austrian financial authorities, we therefore have the best possible support for our pensioners who receive a German pension. This is confirmed by this motion for a resolution. I am really grateful to the Minister for Finance for putting this initiative in place and for setting up this important instrument of information for the people concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18204	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Oh, my God, my God. 3 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18225	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with an all-party application to support German pensioners in Austria. What this is all about, my predecessor has basically explained: The problem lies in the fact that German pensioners living in Austria are to be re-taxed – and this is about five years back, right up to 2005. According to a PVA statistics, more than 153,000 people would be affected. The legal situation is clear. With the new German tax legislation in 2005, pension income from Germany is considered to be domestic income abroad. In other words, taxation must take place in Germany. This also corresponds to the valid double taxation agreement with the German neighbor. Morally, however, it looks slightly different. If the decision is taken in 2005 and the requests for tax returns are received from autumn 2010, then a number of questions may arise. The information is undoubtedly a source of guilt from the German authorities. You cannot expect old people in Austria, 80- or 90-year-old pensioners to keep up-to-date with changes in German tax law. That is why the German authorities are responsible for this. It would have been fairer to pass on the information to interested parties immediately after this Decision in 2005, enabling them to take appropriate precautions. All of this retroactively to five years is a process that also violates the protection of trust. The fact is that this process puts many pensioners in distress. A monthly pension of 300 € may be charged in approximately 1 700 €. For German taxation, the normal rate shall be applied, without regard to basic allowances, without regard to personal or family benefits. It is little known that under certain conditions special treatments may also lead to tax reduction or tax exemption. Experts have explained to us in the Committee that if you make the answer properly due to the German request, then about 90 percent of cases can remain tax-free. As an example, it was also mentioned that a pension of up to €3,200 should not entail any further taxes. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] The complex tax law was the reason why this request was made. The content has already been explained, as has been said. It is a question of setting up a consultative body, where discussions take place in such a way that applications are properly completed. It is also annoyed that discussions with the Germans should be held in this matter. In this context, I should like to point out that Mr Aubauer and I have tabled a petition in which wishes are formulated and where we hope that these suggestions will be received. In conclusion: It is inhuman that 70-, 80- or 90-year-old pensioners are confronted with such cuts, as these people no longer have the possibility of providing for appropriate compensation. These people also have no understanding of corruption, tax havens and tax evasions, which in such cases are much more money than what can be brought in due to this measure. Therefore, as I think, it would be useful to devote more attention to finding out where there are more and higher amounts of money instead of burdening pensioners who have paid heavy taxes for a lifetime and making their evening of life more difficult.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18293	The next speaker was Mr Podgorschek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18314	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Since, as Mr Wöginger has said, I came from the Innviertel constituency and listened to his arson very concentrated, I can only concur with his words. This is really a big problem with us. I can add to the statement made by Mr Wöginger that I believe that the German Ministry of Finance has just used Neubrandenburg because, with Prussian thoroughness, it is likely that there will be every peat. Of course, it will not be the case that each senior has an internet connection, and therefore, I think, there may be a need for consultation. Mr Wöginger has already offered the senior government. I can only confirm this now. Of course, it is also possible for the senior ring to request consultation. As far as the matter itself is concerned, I can only congratulate the fact that, at last, something is happening that Mrs Bundesminister also talks to her colleagues about it. Some pensions have only a few euros, since many of us border workers in the Innviertel often worked only a few months in Germany and thus have a right to a pension of only a few euros. In my district of Ried, a lot of people also work in the bath triangle in Füssing. And if they still need to fill out a tax declaration, that's more than complicated. That is why, as I believe, it is more than justified to reduce the administrative burden there. As far as the advisory services are concerned, I must say that in Braunau, Ried and Schärding, the financial offices in particular are well prepared and are really trying to advise our seniors. I hope that the other financial offices in the so-called interior also recognize this and that our seniors will be advised accordingly and come to a good end.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18347	The next speaker was Mrs Lichtenecker. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18369	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this is a wise request, a request that all support today. I would like to address the content less now, except that I would like to say – regardless of whether it is middle-sized pensioners, young people or people. Ages are – that of course the administration, the offices the Support and advise citizens in their concerns as best they can. And it's the same in this area. And it's good that now a corresponding advisory office, a hotline is set up. I would like to comment on the procedure and on the recovery of this request, in so far as I was surprised, in what form it then came to the table, since I could remember that this request had been, so to speak, in the pipeline and was introduced by the BZÖ in November. We discussed this in May, and I remember the debate very well. On the part of the government parties, it was done as if the request were entirely reversed and, of course, everything would be in progress anyway. Practice has shown that it is quite different. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ! There are many opposition requests, and it would be important for them to be properly discussed in this form, to agree with them or to reject them, but not to proceed in the committees in accordance with the first-class funeral method and to postpone applications. This is highly questionable in terms of democracy. This request has now ended up here as an all-party request. In principle, however, one must consider this procedure very well. I believe it is important that all other areas and concerns brought in by the opposition should be discussed in an objective, professional manner and, even if it is an opposition request, to support and force it. I think it is a task to consider very well a call for the next legislative period to deal with opposition applications in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18408	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18429	Mr President. Thanks to my previous speaker for the clear words that I fully agree with, because Genesis was already remarkable in the development of this request! ==References====External links== November 2011 exactly the request we are submitting today, at the end of April 2013. One and a half years of persuasion! In the meantime, a spectacular financial committee meeting took place, namely on 10 October. In May 2012, when this request came to the Committee at a delay of a few months. What has happened there – and everyone who has been there can still remember very well – in this committee, how we have been mocked by the ÖVP members, as the request in Bausch and Bow simply rejected, has not been delayed, but has been rejected, as the Minister of Finance, when we have kept her individual fates, which pensioners there meet, small pensioners who are 90, 95 years old, who at all do not know how they are, have turned us into a cold smile – I quote literally, I have written it – the pensioners should ask their tax advisors – incredible, all that. I then asked Mrs. Minister: Are you still with consolation? 90-, 95-year-olds have tax advisors, can they afford tax advisors that they can ask? Then she said: Well, if they don't have a tax advisor – next unfrozenness – then they should go to the website of the Ministry of Finance, there it will be explained! That was the scandal in this committee at the time. And only from the time we kept this up and the whole social cold, remoteness, and so on. This ÖVP minister's approach has come to the public, only then have you inspired friends of the ÖVP! Now that you are going to go to the speaker's desk and act as if you had implemented this initiative, that is simply false, obscene and not to understand, Mr Wöginger! [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] The SPÖ held back at least at the time, but you condemned it in Bausch and Arch when we showed you that. And here, at once it goes, all at once it works because the pressure has also grown too big for you. At once, representatives of the Senior Confederation – and I am very grateful to Mr Kaipel and Mrs Aubauer – come with this petition, which, of course also with a delay, was introduced in February of this year. It has also contributed to the promotion of opinion-making, and it goes beyond today's request, which I also like very well. Mr. State Secretary, what we decide today is great, an all-party proposal, but that is only the beginning of the flag bar, that is not the end. That we are now setting up an advisory body and saying: That's it! Turn around and go, it can't have been. Look, I'm not quoting it right now, at this petition of Kaipel and Aubauer, which I consider to be very reasonable, which goes beyond that! You also have to start discussions now, and there is nothing to do with any section head making a funny visit to Neubrandenburg, but there is a question of hard negotiations between ministries in the first place. The Minister is supposed to sit down with your office-visavis in Germany, so that these pensioners are not pulled over the table and do not have to pay back, because this subsequent tax is what we criticize, which has to be gone. Not only the need for advice, but taxation itself is a scandal for these people, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have a form here – because we also find out about it – that the pensioners will receive, which is now suddenly to be drawn into Germany; a very simple form that acts like a set-up case. [[the speaker shall keep such a person up to date]] The form sends the Finanzamt Neubrandenburg, you can read the identification number, and you can check it on – it looks wonderful –: I hereby declare that I am not submitting a tax declaration. – What the sentence means then ask the 95-year-old who gets it on the table. My income tax is to be fixed on the basis of the data provided before the pension fund. – He can then decide whether to define himself first as a limited taxable person or as unlimited taxable person. Allow Now You're guessing what you're going to cross three times. “Restricted tax” – and this is the case, because you have to cross “infinitely taxable” because then everything is summarized. In the case before us, it is about someone who gets 500 € pension and who has correctly checked the thank God. Do you know what he's gotten a prescription now? – €1,50 because it did not present the tax declarations of 2006, 2007 and 2008. A requirement per year of €1.50 – one for this concerned God is grateful to a bright outcome, but for all those who do not declare themselves to be “freely taxable”, there can be additional requirements of € 500, 600, 700, 800 per year, and I look at how this can be done by people. That means, that's a very, very, very delicate story, a very important thing. It now concerns, if this is really true, between 120 000 and 150 000. Mostly in Upper Austria and Salzburg, pensioners and pensioners who still do not recognize themselves, Mr. State Secretary, arbitrators, who are still afraid if they get this comic note, which is still waiting for them to get a relief message. Today is a good first step, an all-party request, but you are now required to negotiate so that these pensioners are not thrown off by the German Fiscus.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18514	Mr Mag (S). — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18535	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for this objective discussion, which seems to have been carried out more intensively with all the parties in the Committee. Every politician is probably going to have a lot of people turn to one and ask what this is like. I have tried to point out, in several discussions with German Finance Secretarys, that it would be useful, apart from the fact that, in the view of the German Minister of Finance, of course, there is a tax obligation on income or pensions from Germany – but to allow the church in the village to look at this from both an administrative and human point of view, in terms of heights, frequency and all of these things. This influence on the German tax authorities on the part of Austria is unfortunately a limited one, we have no legislative power over Germany. That is, the decision on how the Germans deal with this question is unfortunately very strong in German hands. But what we have done very well – and I think that is also our duty and our obligation – was to provide the information for the people who are now asking themselves how to fill in the form, which is exactly what it means when such a letter comes. The homepage of the Ministry of Finance, which has been mentioned, is of course an information medium. But also knowing that in the older generation – let me talk out! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr State Secretary, 90-year-old people who do not go to the homepage!]] If you listen briefly, you'll get an answer to this question, even if I don't know if you want it. Of course, information sheets are also available on the financial offices, which have also been sent to the organisations through the Council of Senior Citizens and the individual senior representatives. We have now set up this advisory service for the pensioners concerned, where detailed advice can be provided on this question and also assistance can be provided. It is true – as has already been said – that German tax law is really not easy on this question. It is therefore not reasonable for the older ladies and gentlemen concerned to be able to behave properly or inconspicuously. It is therefore very useful and good that there is information. There are various channels for this information. Of course, there is the electronic with the email address and the homepage. It should not be underestimated that many pensioners use themselves despite advanced age or, therefore, the electronic media. That's what we see from the fact that we also receive many emails. But since this is not everybody can and, of course, is not all the one-sided reading of an information sheet, there should also be the channel that you can personally inform yourself at the financial office at the information office or also by telephone, and in addition, both at the individual financial offices and in the Ministry of Finance at the so-called Ombuds Service and Citizens' Service Office. We have also ensured that those people who leave their contact details, their names and their telephone number also receive a recall, because it is sometimes quite necessary to look at the documents, check everything and then call people back. I think that we are really making an intense effort and implementing it, that the people who ask themselves these questions at all levels, wherever they turn to us, get the desired information quickly, competently and unbureaucratically, regardless of the form, personal, oral, telephone, on-site or just in writing. That is the minimum we can do: that people are always informed how they can act. We will continue to find contact and start the discussion with the German tax authorities about doing so unbureaucratically and also in the sense of the affected, especially since, as you said in your example, Mr Westenthaler, it is also about ridiculous amounts and you have to ask if the entire effort is worth it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Happy!]] – Good luck, applies to the person concerned, but: That is the big question that the authorities are asking themselves. I don't think in many cases. That is why I will continue to say to my German colleagues that I believe that, in the sense of the administrative economy, there would be quite another way to deal with it more intensively than Austrian pensioners, who have worked in Germany for a few months or years, and from that there will be a pension that seems to have not been taxed so far, but only now because one has just come up with it. Perhaps they should consider whether there were other priorities that would be much more meaningful.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18588	The next speaker was Mr Hagen. 4 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18609	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! There has already been a lot of talk about this problem, it is known. I would like to give a hundred percent right to Mr Westenthal, who has really replicated this very authentically. But what bothers me is that the government needs a year and a half to become an initiative. I have personally made it clear to you from this speaker's point of view that this problem exists. As a Vorarlberger you are faced with this issue. We have a lot of border workers who work in Germany as well as in Switzerland or Liechtenstein. This problem is known to us for a very long time. I have, as I have said, brought them here several times. I am glad that a real step has now been taken, that something is at last happening, and that this is just a statement of intent and that there are not really a hundred percent solutions for these people on the table. There's a consulting center now, and that's something positive that these people know about. So far, this has been done in Vorarlberg by the UN Ombudsman, Which you have to congratulate, because he did it very well. Several pensioners' associations have also been mentioned, who have tried to do this, and some of the national councils or politicians in the house have also tried to do so. I think all of them are grateful that they have become an initiative. I would like to say least thank you to the government because it is simply too late. This is always the big problem: that this government is putting problems ahead over years until it finally acts and becomes an initiative. If one has heard Mr Wöginger before, one might think that is a problem that has existed for only two weeks and is now solved. – Nothing is solved, because there is only talk with the German financial authorities. As I said, seven years of repayment is a disaster for a pensioner who has only a low pension. I can only blame you for not acting faster here. But I am now glad that something at least happens that these people have the hope that there will be an improvement. I hope that these negotiations will also be concluded positively and that something will really come true, not just hot air from the Secretary of State. I'm trying to believe you're going to try, I hope it's actually on the table soon, then you'll get a real praise from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18654	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18676	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you once again of what we are talking about here. Imagine you're eighty, not mobile, don't have an internet, don't have a tax advisor, and an unexpected message comes from a German financial authority, in which it says: Reimbursement of taxes by 2005. - How are you doing? The people who are affected are desperate. We have experienced this in many, many discussions in the senior government, in the advisory offices. Here it needs help, quick help, and it's in progress now, that's the decisive thing. If the BZÖ has been working for this for a long time, I say thank you, great. Our Minister of Finance has now acted quickly at the request of the seniors and the financial committee. I would like to express my express thanks to Mrs Fekter. This ombudsman in the Ministry of Finance is working next week, as the Secretary of State says. Thank you very much, this is unbureaucratic and should above all be understandable to our seniors, because in this complicated matter it is important that it is also comprehensiblely informed. What have we done to senior representatives? – Mr Kaipel and I have already spoken about the petition of the senior seniors to the National Council. Since we – now the new one is coming – as Mr State Secretary Arbitrator says, can not easily bring about other solutions here in Austria, the Council of Seniors has now also brought a petition to the German Bundestag. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Arbitrator.]] I hear from the Secretary of State, that's good, fine. It's new and it's running. The aim is an unbureaucratic solution, and we want to support the negotiations from the German side. What do we want to achieve? – Hardness cases are expected to be resolved. In Germany, it is also possible to use the so-called general forbearance by tax authorities. In any case, we would like to see help here for those affected. I'm sure we're not going to let seniors loose. Seniors demand fair treatment, and eight years pay taxes, which certainly does not belong to it. It's nice that all the parties work together. This shows this six-party proposal, which, as I hope, will be more in the future. We need more together and less the constant hack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18727	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18748	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for reporting on the discussions with the German tax authorities by colleagues, because that is the essential point. The Ministry of Finance is asked to reach agreement with the Germans. I therefore welcome the fact that the Secretary of State has explained to us how he is acting. It would also have been the duty of the German authorities to inform Austrian pensioners at an early stage. It didn't happen. That is why it is good to have an all-party application so that pensioners are informed of the Austrian side, especially as Mr Wöginger has already mentioned, that information and advice are given on how to collect the available allowances and as little as possible to pay. Despite everything, the Ministry of Finance must continue to negotiate with the German authorities. I think the fact that this not only called for the pensioners' organizations but also supported the youth organisations is a sign that Alt and Jung are fighting together here. I hope that not only five-and-a-half months before the election, all here will hold a plea for the seniors and the solidarity and commonness, but also for the rest of the year – in some politicians and in some opinion-makers, I often discover the tendency – old and young with a global downfall are not raised against each other in order to finally make policy against those who need the support of politics. That is why I hope that this solidarity between the old and the young, but also solidarity here in the House with the elderly, will take place not only now, but also all year round and even after the election. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18786	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the resolution on double taxation for tens of thousands of pensioners attached to the Committee's report 2267. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 300.) [[20:40:59]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 2206/A by Mrs Elmar Mayer, Christine Marek, Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, Dr. Harald Walser, Ursula Haubner, Stefan Markowitz, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Law on compulsory education in 1985 (2284 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18853	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Mayer has spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18880	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the course of the debate on the budget framework, we have already had the opportunity to speak on major issues in the field of education policy, which will continue to concern us intensively over the next few years. The laws we have to discuss below are not the big milestones, but small, important steps, as I mean, that we can happily put together. It is in this law that we are now the first to vote around the tenth year of school. It was already possible in individual national school councils – if you want to – to pass the law, students, if it was necessary to allow for a tenth school year through class repetition or the visit to the preschool et cetera, so that they could have a school degree. It's supposed to be legalized. We have therefore also submitted a corresponding request, the law with 1. In June of this year, the school authorities will be able to put these things into practice on an orderly legal basis. At this point, I should also like to join the teachers of all political groups for the joint initiative on the 9th. Thank you very much. This is similar to the law that we are deciding today, a very sensitive area, as in the educational field the seams are the sensitive areas. We know this from the education. There we are in the process of making a comprehensive package for language promotion and training. What can we improve? In primary schools: How can we improve the promotion of language so that the children have a better start? We know the problem of the transition from the primary school to the New Secondary School or to the gymnasium. There are two completely different concepts: One is for a common school in order not to sort out too many as possible, and the other say they want to continue this differentiation with the AHS sub-level, special schools and primary schools. There is again the seam, the transition to the other school is a sensitive area. It's the same after 8. School level when we make the transition. Especially for those who do not have the opportunity to be properly advised at home on these questions – what profession should I enter? What lesson should I begin? What school would I ask for? – one is to be found in this 9. School level is responsible and advises young people accordingly. I believe that with this concept, which we have jointly decided here, we have taken an important step, although not perceived by the public, that we can also improve opportunities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18926	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18947	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Every year several thousand young people leave school without completing compulsory school, even without proof, and it is important that we open up new opportunities for these young people. My previous speaker has already mentioned some essential content. It is essential that we really give all those who also want to have the opportunity and opportunities to achieve compulsory schooling with an additional school year – the class repetitions they had to make. It's about it, either in the 4th. Class primary school to achieve a corresponding degree or in the polytechnic school. It is important to have opportunities in the labour market to be able to prove an appropriate compulsory schooling. The dual training system, which is common here in Austria, is well above the borders and is also exemplary. And it is important that we open up new opportunities for young people in this field – of course, this needs a certain amount of self-esteem and also the appropriate will – to reach the appropriate level of compulsory education in order to improve their positions and opportunities in the labour market accordingly. This is also an area that many entrepreneurs are constantly calling for, because, unfortunately, relatively many young people have relatively few skills in certain basic skills. With the improvements in the field of polytechnic school to a really modern polytechnic, we also improve these possibilities. In reality, Austria is on the go – the comparison, for example, with regard to youth unemployment, makes us sure – but it is important that we open up new opportunities for these young people, because everyone and every young unemployed person is a unemployed person or a unemployed person too much. It is also necessary to say that young people in particular need appropriate perspectives, because if young people have no prospects, this is a special feeding ground for dispersing both in social and economic balance; we should all be aware of this. It is therefore really positive that all parliamentary parties support this request today.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e18984	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19006	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, what does a matter of unanimity mean in this area? – As has already been pointed out, the education system in Austria not only has a chance, but also a second, a third and, if possible, more. These are small projects, which are ongoing and where there is actually a very broad consensus within all the parliamentary parties. Since this is a degree in the field of compulsory education, located in the Polytechnic School, perhaps a small but very important step for the interested public is that this, under quotations, “small” measure is also signaled to the public that the Parliament is advocating it. At various calls, including from the outside – I am thinking here in particular of reports and opinions of the social partners – the basic idea of the polytechnic school, because it is a crucial, important school in the direction of technical work. This six-party application also has a certain history: All educational speakers were invited by the Federal Minister to attend a model school in Leibnitz. Once it was shown what a polytechnic school can do. We were also always impressed, also in the subcommittees, what individual school directors have done, what teachers have done in their individual projects at their schools. I am thinking, above all, of areas, of how well a school autonomy is – Mrs Federal Minister, you would say: Responsibility at the school location; however you want to call it – developed when good, committed teachers are at the school location, which they lead to. We have already received suggestions there, which have ultimately also resulted in this request. I am firmly convinced – a round table has already taken place – that the polytechnic school, as it is now, is in need of reform, but all parliamentary parties have taken a good course. The proposals which have come from the Federal Ministry have also been voted on accordingly by the parliamentary groups, there are already the corresponding issues. It is a “small project” – under quotation marks – but for the individual who comes up to it, he wants to get a degree in education – he may have sometime, from whatever desire and mood, not taken learning so seriously, but later on, the button will give him the chance.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19048	Mr Walser is speaking as the next speaker. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19069	Mrs. Minister! High house! Of course, it is gratifying to have a constructive climate in the teaching committee when we address the problems in the teaching committee and try to intervene where there are major problems. And there are really enough problems in the Austrian school system – we hear that every day, we have to read it every day, and every day there are complaints. However, the constructive climate alone will not bring us forward if we do not have the courage to reform Austrian education really fundamentally. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] What we do today and to a non-indisputable part will decide together – not everything, but a lot – these are repairs. These are necessary repairs, that is flickwerk on the Austrian education system, and it is not something that points to the future. I think we should be aware of the fact that we have a great responsibility, which we – I must say – have not really realized in recent years. The primary school, the New Secondary School and the Polytechnic Course or the Polytechnic School are the expression of this crisis. I think if we really want to move on, then we have to think forward-looking, then we need a more flexible school system than we have now. It starts in the input phase. We have to get to the interfaces: where it goes from kindergarten to folk school, where it goes from the folk school to the common middle level – hopefully soon – of all 10 to 14-year-olds and beyond. These interfaces are neural points, and one of these neural points we are dealing with today – as said: in my view, not with the necessary consequence that would be required. When we speak of students with 13, 14, 15 years of age, who are often in difficult situations of change in person – the Pubertät et cetera is inhibiting students who do not receive help to achieve the necessary school success – we also need to remember that we have to implement the key word “individualization” in practice there. It is necessary to give children, young people, young adults the opportunity to find themselves in this system, to do what is right for them to make the right career choice. Unfortunately, we are not yet where we could be at Weitem, if there were not certain blockages, and I have to look towards ÖVP. We need a modern school system. We need a school system that doesn't contain deadlocks. We are now building a small escape route from one of these dead end roads. I received information there, especially from Salzburg, where there were 15 cases of problems in a district, where students had to switch directly from the second class primary school to the polytechnic school because the legal provisions were so. That's where we can fix it today. But as I said, This is really just a drop on the hot stone, a drop on the big problems, on the big hot stone, which is called school reform. This is going to blow if we do not really discuss where we want to go with this system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19109	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19130	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With this so-called teaching package, which is followed by item 8, I think we have another legislative amendment – a package that allows young people to successfully complete the school if, for some reason, they have not left school in a timely and non-sustainable manner. I think that with all the criticism that my previous speaker made in the direction of school reform – where I can stress a lot; and I am also one who says: first of all properly invest, then you don't need to repair so much – it is simply a necessary repair in this case. We still have too many young people, whom we leave behind and which we have every chance to build on an independent life, where we put the germ, so to speak, that they will later become beneficiaries of social assistance and have very few prospects. That is why this change is really about equal opportunities, and this right of opportunity is implemented. I'm the fifth in government, it's an all-party request. I think it is right that the polytechnic school is at the point of view here and that it is possible that someone who does not have a positive degree will go to the polytechnic school and voluntarily make a tenth school year if he or she wants to. So this does not mean that time is being lost, as it unfortunately means in our school system when it comes to duty. the school is still the case, rather than obtaining a positive education degree. This is also one of the objectives of the new development and development of the Polytechnic School. I am very glad that we have said here in a great common agreement that the Polytechnic School is a school that is important, which is valuable, which is only modernly designed, adapted to modern conditions and therefore needs to develop further. Further development can be understood in the sense of deepening general education, also in the sense of a modular system with different focusses and – which is particularly important to us by the BZÖ – a clearly detectable education degree. This is proof that an educational goal has been achieved and is intended to reduce the problems that we face especially in the economy of young people who want to take up a teaching profession in the future. As I said, I am pleased that we have this agreement here, but I believe that much remains to be done in the further development of the Polytechnic School. Now there is a project with ten test schools, but that is only the beginning and certainly not the end.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19173	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19194	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, I am particularly pleased that we have managed with this six-party request that we go in the right direction here. Mr Walser, you said: It happens a lot, on the one hand, we still have to put on the lever, on the other side: Let us be glad that we, all six parties, have just achieved at the Polytechnic School, perhaps giving people a chance in the future to obtain a degree in education. Every year we have 10,000 young people who do not have a degree in education. These are the long-term unemployed of tomorrow, these are people we no longer accommodate, and these are really people who have no chance of having no money at all. I am the last to praise the government and say everything is great, but today is really a day when we can say: Let's be glad, six parties, we'll do something, and above all: It's about young people who deserve a chance. [[Complementary of the Abg. Donate.]] How did this come about? – We were in Leibnitz and saw there a polytechnic school that works, and I am very pleased. There are cities in which it does not work, we know whether this is in Vienna or where we have big problems. We have to put the lever on that too, and I think the Minister knows that too. But here is something that I think is important – like Mr Mayer, because I see him right now: We give young people this opportunity. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] What do you mean, "Poly"? “Poly” means much and more, that is, we give young people the opportunity to look at occupations and also to sniff in businesses. The basic idea was a real and more important one, only that went completely in the wrong direction. Today's polytechnic school is nothing but a Possibility where you say: Well, if I don't know which school I can attend, or if I don't do a recording exam, I go to the "Poly", take off the time there and will automatically find a job! But this is not the case, and that is the main problem we have! That's why we really need to fix something. And that was also recognized, and I assume that this will happen in the future. An important point is the repetition, i.e. the tenth school level, the job coaching, which, as we see, works super in the Styria. The boy shown up here is Albert. [[Keeping an article in height with the heading “Job coaching”]] He was with me today and told me he worked for two and a half years. He has to say that he has a 70 percent disability because as a young boy he has had a serious accident. This boy is no longer traceable. He fights like a lion that he can work somewhere, but gets permanently cancelled. He'd like to work as an animal caretaker. The most important thing is – this is not directly related to the Minister of Education: We really need to see that we give people who want to work a chance. I expect from this law, from this change, that in the future there will be a lot more young people taking this opportunity and making the experience that with a good conclusion much is feasible. I am pleased that we are taking a right and important path here, with which we can achieve a lot together for many young people in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19273	Now the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Schmied, has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19295	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased with the initiative proposal and amendment tabled by all the parliamentary parties and I think it is important because this measure eliminates existing legal uncertainties and, on the other hand, increases the educational opportunities for young people. The upgrading of the polytechnic school is also very much in my heart. In particular, I think we should continue to follow your proposal, Mr Rosenkranz, that the polytechnic school should also be developed towards the vocational school, since most graduates of this type of school should then also visit a dual education aimed at teaching, and that, based on a module system, there is a possible accounting – a word “teaching with Matura” – in preparatory fields also in the field of matura. It is – and this is important to me; I am now saying this in the direction of Mr Walser – that it is about renewal and further development. I should like to stress once again, Mr Deputies: We do a lot in the field of education, including with your support and with your participation in many projects. In Austria today, we spend € 1 billion more on education! We have achieved a lot through our actions: two teachers in the new middle school, smaller classes, the expansion of day-to-day school offers, 11 000 teachers' plans have been created, and 58 government projects are being implemented. So, as I said, it was a lot of success! At the same time, however, I also say: A lot of work is still ahead of us, but there is no reason to fall into pessimism! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19340	Mr Sacher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19361	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As a Member of Parliament, I can only fully endorse the statements made by the Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: I wouldn't have expected it! A joyous surprise!]] Mr Walser, I appreciate you as colleagues. I think you're a good teacher, but you're an even bigger small speaker. They always put the light under the casket. You're an incorrigible pessimist. The small steps, Mr President, are also steps into the future! But we have also taken great steps in education policy in recent times. The year 2013 is a year of major projects: New secondary school, strengthening all day care, the large increase in budget resources already carried out by the Federal Minister in this area, 11,000 additional teacher posts. I could list a lot more here. And if we are taking this step here today in consensus, you might as well overcome yourself and say: Yes, this is a good step, this is a progress in education policy! Mr Walser, let us not always put our light under the mingle. You're a green blackseer if I can say so. Ladies and gentlemen! The meaning of this decision today is that we give all young people opportunities and allow them to enter their professional life. This legislative decision makes it possible. It is essential, especially in compulsory school, that we offer vocational orientation to young people. It has already been mentioned by the Polytechnic School. But I can also mention bad examples here – Tag Schulerhalter –: A new school center was built in my district in the city of Krems. The Polytechnic School, however, has such a high head rate that the rural communities leave. It can't be that a community says, for example: I give my poly-student a laptop when he goes to the first class of the trade school!, and then the connection to the professional life is no longer possible. We need to discover the talents that promote talents, and to do so we need this professional orientation. Today's decision allows us to give this opportunity to those who are disadvantaged who otherwise have no chance. In this sense: Let's see this positively! We've taken great steps. And that's another small step in a good direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19401	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 2284 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:07:14]] 6. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (2198, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the compulsory school law 1985 and the Education Documentation Act (2285 d.b.) 7. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (2212, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the School Education Act, the School Teaching Act-Novelle BGBl. I No. 9/2012, the Education Act Novelle BGBl. I No. 52/2010, the School Teaching Act for Professionals, Colleges and Preparation Courses, the Federal Law on Vocational Retirement, the Mandatory Schools Examination Act, the Schools Law 1985, the Schools Aid Act 1983, the Private School Law, the Federal Schools Supervisory Act, the Pupils' Office Act, the School Organisation Act, the School Time Act 1985, the Federal Law on the Legal Personality of Religious Confession Communities and the Federal Law on the Regulation of the Retirement of the Instance in Cases in Cases of the State Cultus Administration (Adaptation Law for the School and Cultus Division) (2287 d.e.) 8. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (2188, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Higher Education Act 2005 (Government Jurisdictions-Adaptation-Law – Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture, Educational higher education) (2288 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19474	We come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19502	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Of these three agenda items, we will vote in favour of two agenda items. It is about anchoring the relevant legislative instruments to be dealt with in the Teaching Committee, which is about implementing the Administrative Jurisdiction Novelle – one of the most securely major reforms that have been in place for a long time. In addition to the question of constitutional provisions, it is now necessary to understand in the various areas that the two-stage instance move in the administration is now being removed. We believe that this will put in place the right measures to ensure legal certainty. On the agenda item 6, we are all in a difficult position because we believe that the proposed measure is neither the right one nor the efficient one. It was said in the Committee that this is a very small area, that there are not very many application cases for it, but even if you say that there should not be any child in the education area, because, as it is so well called, every child has to be picked up where it is – these are always the keywords and slogans that are issued here, or the headlines – it is also a fact that there are children in individual cases who, perhaps because of their age and maturity, do not yet fully understand how important it is to go to school, and therefore the school is blackened. And that's where you come and talk to your parents, but some parents may not even be interested, they may not be aware that schooling is also a good thing, that it makes sense for their children to go to school, and these parents should be helped accordingly to send their hopeful offspring to school as long as they are not self-determined. But if all of this does not produce anything in the good, then you have to take different measures. And there the majority of governments have just taken the path where they say: There have already been penalties for this, and they are now being increased sensitively, from € 220 to €440! But that's just the criminal framework. That is to say, if income relationships are corresponding, or in the case of repetition, because in a penal framework, one starts with the lower amounts. We believe that the punishment is not a cure. The plurality of a procedure that you try to speak to your parents once in a good way and convince them that this alone helps, we think is good and right. It doesn't have to be the punishment from the beginning. That would probably be better for drivers if there were once the dead right of admonition or something like a warning. [[Abg. Riepl: There is!]] There's that on the paper. That's just dead right. Or has anyone been counseled sometime recently? [[Abg. Riepl nodded.]] Mr Riepl. Yeah, well. In any case, we believe that there are other models here or another possibility. For example, a Social Democratic Regional Mayor in Berlin said: It would be interesting to delete the family benefits, the transfers for such a family once! Once the parents realize that at the beginning of the month at once less money is on the account, the children have missed out on school for the last time! – That would be our approach! We do not share the constitutional concerns expressed here, because we believe family money to be paid family transfers if the children in the family are supported accordingly. And this includes not only getting a meal on the table, getting clothes and getting a pocket money, but also making sure that the parents get the school education that the state offers them.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19544	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19568	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I am referring to the Federal Law, which amends the compulsory school law 1985 and the Education Documentation Act. The aim of this package of laws is to identify the causes of school blacks and to take the corresponding steps. But all of us are aware – and that has already been mentioned by my previous speaker – that school blackness has many reasons and that there are also deeper problems for this. But from my experience as a teacher, I can say with a calm conscience that school blacks are certainly not a major problem with us. A five-stage plan will enter into force on the package of legislation now in force in the event of a breach of compulsory education. It focuses primarily on better and close cooperation between school, parents and also youth welfare. However, in order to verify the effectiveness of the measures, it is certainly also necessary that there are experience reports from the practice, that there is feedback and that an evaluation has to be carried out after some time to determine whether the objective could actually be achieved. I believe that cooperation with the school social workers and also psychological support is also important. In this direction, one still has to consider and make improvements.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19605	Mr Dr. Walser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19626	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Very interesting, Mrs Minister, this € 1 billion more into the education system you spoke about earlier – I believe you are! However, we have repeatedly pointed out that this money could be used more effectively. I am by no means the Black Seer when I was put here by the Socialist Group. On the contrary, I'm a great optimist: I believe that because I felt this in the course of the educational people's desire, which was very successful. And as successful as it was, the two popular desires that were discussed last weekend and where we heard last week did not even make the way here to Parliament. It was a huge achievement – with very little money – that we have brought almost 400 000 people to say in our educational desire: Yes, we need this big school reform! We must not put the money we use into the administration, as we do most of it at present, because we afford three, four parallel structures in the area of the ten to fourteen years old, but we must see that this money arrives in the classroom with the children and not in the bureaucracy! That's why we are! And here I am quite optimistic that we can take these great steps with the people who support this very well in the foreseeable future. Let us now come to the laws and to the “solutions” – under quotation marks – which you propose to us today. For school blackness: In every Sunday's speech, we hear that we need school autonomy, that responsibility belongs to where people recognize themselves, that is, on the spot. But what we're doing now is for a problem like school blackness – and I'm surprised to hear that it's not such a big problem, while the Committee has still said it's a huge problem – to introduce a five-stage instance move by law. You can imagine that in practice! I do not know if your officials have ever taken one step – yes, in their schooling perhaps, but probably since then no longer – in school, but a five-stage procedure for schooling with deadlines – there are four weeks, three weeks there, two weeks there when a student weakens in April, then it goes deep into the vacation until the instance move is over – is absolutely impracticable! In reality, you will never do that in any form. We make ourselves ridiculous, with a pledge, if we pass such laws and then we still believe that we have found here the egg of the Columbus. Do you know how many procedures for school blacks de facto were concluded last year with a penalty? – 30 procedures across Austria! And then you think, with an increase in the penalty from €220 to €440, which threatens to solve a problem after these five steps, after an end phase. So, on your leave, we can't go there with the best we can. But tomorrow we have the opportunity to talk about another aspect in this context. [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: Proposal!]] Mr Mayer, I would like to make a proposal, namely that not we at the Minorities Square and not the national school authorities bring solutions to it, but that the solutions be made where they belong, as we said earlier: Let the schools decide! Let the directors solve this story together with the teachers! But please don't have a five-stage emergency plan for a school-tailer who may have had a good time in the coffee shop. So we will certainly not solve this problem! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the administrative jurisdiction, ladies and gentlemen: Yes, this law has recognized a problem, and you are dealing with this problem too. I think it would be an advantage if we introduced an independent jurisdiction here. What bothers us and why we cannot agree here has a simple reason: This law is also not forward-looking for the weakest in our school system. Imagine: a family, not a large educational background, no great knowledge of the Austrian legal system, hardly any opportunity to seek legal advice. And this family will now be referred to an administrative court in case of a problem if it wishes to object to a decision – for Vorarlberg the next one will be in Innsbruck, which is also a problem – and must also provide advice. That is exactly the problem, which is why we do not agree here. Yes, I still agree that this exercise is perhaps necessary – we cannot insert appropriate courts everywhere, in every federal state – but it must be ensured that socially weaker families are also helped legally. So far, this was possible because an opinion was drawn up automatically by the State School Authority. Now these families have to apply for legal assistance themselves – at least it is possible; the law is not quite precise here, it is not fully implemented. But it's possible that they have to do that, and that's where we want security. We want rights for everyone. We want us here in this House to pass laws that, above all, help the weakest in our society. And this is not guaranteed!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19702	Mrs Franz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19723	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! More often, educators complain about increased school blacks and above all that they have no means of taking any action or that the measures are toothless. There are not planned a week before school or a week after the semester holidays with the children, often because it is cheaper to travel, or because it just fits better. Students remain unpunished away from teaching, but not only on a case-by-case basis, as you have said, Mr Walser, but often for several weeks. The certificate is not collected at the school's end because you're on vacation. Of course, this does not make the mass of pupils. But what does a compulsory schooling use if innocent distance stays are left without consequences? Finally, the children are the sufferers if in the eyes of their parents the school has absolutely no priority. Children affected are deprived of their educational opportunities and therefore urgently need support and help. And that's what this five-stage plan is about. He is not a shock to the educators, but he is really a help to deepen the conversation, so that solutions, measures are agreed together. It is also intended to involve the school-psychological service, to draw up solutions, to verify whether the measures will work, and, of course, what is very important is to establish the causes of compulsory school-leaving. And only when these measures do not take place will criminal charges be reimbursed. The minimum framework is €440. Therefore, an early collection of reasons for staying away is to take place. There is a competent assistance for pupils, but also for their legal guardians. Finally, the arrangements made are also a suitable means for educators to make parents aware of their responsibilities and to give children the necessary educational opportunities so that their education careers can develop positively. Education opportunities are life opportunities, and on that our youth has a right. School blacks are often a cry for help. But if this school blackness remains without consequences and no action is taken, then this call for help will not be heard, and that is not in the sense of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19764	Mrs Haubner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19785	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! School blacks have many faces, starting from a simple-one-time-one-day-to-home stay because you don't want to go to school, about holiday extensions that are very often from the parents, are supported by the family, up to how many students do, a distance from fear, namely fear of any exams, schoolwork and the like. The law is now intended to call for the fight against compulsory schooling and schooling. On the one hand, school blackness is to be made more difficult, and on the other hand it should become more expensive. The notable school blackness – I am not talking about someone sitting in the coffee house for half a day, but about the notorious school blackness – is not a cavalier crime, but usually attracts a negative school success after himself or a school break and takes young people very many career and life opportunities. That is why, I believe, it is already important that young people's consciousness be heightened in this way – and that parents should not be released from responsibility – that discipline, responsibility, diligence and reliability are values and qualities that are also needed in later working life and that are simply a basis for human living. And where should this, if not in the family, be taught and lived otherwise than in school? Only, ladies and gentlemen, This five-stage plan is certainly not the final conclusion of wisdom, because, I say, it is absolutely non-practical and very bureaucratic, starting with the mandatory first conversation between parents, children and teachers, about the subsequent education of the school management, in further consequence from in-house consultants, until finally the integration of youth welfare. – A complex plan that cannot work, which will become clear to you when you look at reality in schools, where these aids are simply not enough. There is not everywhere the school psychologists and the social workers needed to do so when such a case occurs, and also youth welfare – and we all know this from practical experience – is not exactly equipped with employees. It is certainly not a mass problem – I am right for all those who have said so – but we do not have any records, and that is now being changed with this change of law. At the last instance – if none of the measures mentioned above – this administrative penalty, i.e. €440, is fined. We from the BZÖ believe that it would be better to keep a contribution than to make an effort to do something that is associated with much bureaucracy and administrative burden and, of course, with costs – especially when opposed to these decisions. That is why our proposal, which I have already mentioned in the Committee, is that, if one already provides for financial penalties – and that is the last of all – that should be managed and directed by means of family aid. We have similar positive experiences – in the few cases where this is necessary – in the mother-child pass in connection with the childcare allowance: that mothers receive a reduced childcare allowance for parents who do not allow their children to increase the required examinations. And if they repeat these investigations, the full length of the childcare allowance will be paid again. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, we will not vote in favour of this draft law, this five-stage plan – we have already acted accordingly in committee. Nor will we give our consent to the laws under the second point, although we are in principle in favour of administrative jurisdiction, because it is a major reform work, but we would only agree on the condition that it is simplified and that the change entails a reduction in costs. However, both of us cannot be seen in the field of education. On the contrary: The appeals are simplified and not simplified, and above all additional costs are incurred on parents through the collection of opinions and in the case of legal advice legal fees. That is why we shall also reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19879	Mr Mayer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19901	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! If I envy the opposition for one, then at the speaking time. The representatives of the opposition can talk for a long time here, have enough time to speak – on the other hand, we have to fight for a minute and cannot explain the successes we have as broad as the opposition the regret that is taking place here on its part. But it's like that, you have to live with it. That's a fact. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The first: Of course you are right, Mr Walser, when you say that problems with school blackness are usually solved directly at school, and that is also the day of schooling. But the headmaster, the director of the school, cannot at the same time be the governor and drive the money in. That is, if the law provides for the end of the sentence to be lifted, then the administrative authorities must do so, and this procedure must be regulated. Everything else – I'm with you – should be done at school. Name: The aim is to improve school social work, to shape the school the way we want it, so that the students do not at all come to the idea of staying away from school. It must be fun to be at school! In this direction we work – and then the problem is much smaller. The second point I want to address is – and that is what hurts me more, Mr Walser; and the expression "green black-seer" used by Mr Sacher was not so bad, and not ORF black-seer, I already admit, but politically - that you, wherever you have worked yourself – as I do, and in terms of content, hardly separates us from a leaf when it comes to what we want to achieve together for the school – here everything is bad that you do not want to see what has already been done, namely that we have already implemented the educational people's desire, which we both have defended and represented with heart blood, four-fifths of what the school is concerned with. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Ask Hannes Androsch! What does Hannes Androsch say about this?]] Now we've brought the pedagogical training on track – Walser: Not possible! And the upper-level reform – Walser: Not possible! The new Matura – Walser also demands resignation of the minister because she does not come up to date! Mr Walser, these things have all been done for a long time. You either didn't get this or you have a perceptive problem. And that's why I'm telling you: Come with me at last! Sounds like a new school reform, then you're on the right track!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e19952	I'm still saying, I have not previously announced – and I am doing so – that Mrs Haubner's motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20010	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20031	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! On the subject of school blacks – agenda item 6 – we will not agree for the reason, Mrs Minister, because there is an existing law. I have now looked at the draft before us, and he already sees a lot of bureaucracy, I have to say that – now I have to give Mr Walser the right thing again. We agree with Agenda items 7 and 8. Quite honest: School blacks are not a cavalier crime. You have to take your parents to duty, that's quite clear. But I would say that the procedure would have to be shortened. You have to see that you can also punish much faster without having great processes behind you. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Who says that?]] – I now express my personal opinion, Mr Jarolim. Just you as a lawyer would have to know if we were to implement this five-stage plan, it would take forever! It takes months to years for this to actually be implemented. And if you collect €440 and you have procedural costs of €2,000, please tell me, Mr Jarolim, how this should be financed! – But I would like to thank you very much for this call, because this again shows quite exactly that you are not on the matter, probably because it is already late. You'll sleep at this time. But we're trying to work constructively here – that's what we've always done up to now. I'm totally glad you woke up now. This call was really a disaster. Mrs Minister, on points 7 and 8, we agree, as has already been said. I'm convinced that we're going in the right direction. But as far as school blackness is concerned, we simply have to have a tight structure, and we must not overshadow the teachers. Now so many people are involved, we never see light at the end of the tunnel. So here I am for this to be shortened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20069	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20090	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by commenting on the subject of compulsory schooling. The ultimate goal is – and in the goals, I think, we are all very united often – the top goal must be that every child who lives in Austria also attends the school. Now I have a few exceptions. And if young people should not attend school, it is important to first of all find out what the causes of this distance stay are. So it's not about "cavalier's crime" now – under quotation marks – because you're in the coffee house once, but it's about school blacks. And here I think the approach is that one also defines in the law, when one speaks of compulsory schooling, for a right approach, because he creates clarity and because – I say now – he excludes and excludes bagatelle occurrences from the house. The second point – and here we will see how this point proves to be in practice – is the level plan, which seems reasonable to me from the point of view, namely that what you stress, Mr Walser, first of all, is that the school is trying to find out, in its own responsibility, what is the cause of the distance, and then, in the case of an escalation, the individual measures – keywords: Counsellors, school supervision, youth welfare, until the penalty is imposed in the sense of an Ultima Ratio. It is also important – and Mrs Haubner has mentioned this – that we improve the documentation, which in the end enables us to evaluate this procedure. We also discussed this in the Committee on Education: we will look very closely at whether these measures will help us to improve. And if once again it becomes clear that we need more support staff for teachers, more school social work is needed, then this should also be an important, correct and factual argument for us. Secondly, the administrative jurisdiction: This is about implementing a very large reform in the field of culture, in the field of schools, in the field of educational universities – and there is a level of authority falling away! That's the goal! However, it is not possible to make up for this loss if one makes it previously intention to introduce a more efficient, more effective procedure in Austria from the point of view of its motive. That's a big change. Our employees have been talking about this since the teaching committee, and I can tell you: We will be very, very careful and careful to accompany this process of change, especially among the aspects you have mentioned here, Mr Walser. Finally, I now have to follow Mr Mayer's remarks: So please, the one billion is worth investing. We really do not need to discuss this now, I think. The project with the smaller classes – I remember: There was also an educational desire! – has been implemented. And: Two teachers in German, mathematics and English, that is considered by all to be useful, the implementation of the school building program as well as the all day schools. And if now the educational education is coming new, 80 percent of the educational population is implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20149	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20170	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The debate so far has shown with which arguments – one or the other is understandable to me too – the opposition will not join this law today. Unfortunately, then, party tactics prevail. And the greens once again show that they don't always have the sense of reality. We have a problem here! They argued with 30 cases that were sanctioned last year. But that's a factor for me: We have so far had no appropriate framework for this; we are creating it, it is important and right. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for this legislation – which was also done at the initiative of State Secretary Sebastian Kurz – for creating an effective law. They said that 30 cases were sanctioned last year, but the number is another, namely that we currently have 70 000 young people between 16 and 24 years of age who do not have a job in no training which is neither in a training institution nor in an educational establishment. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Does that have to do with the law? That's another topic!]] Where, do you think, does their “carriers” start? In the multitude of people who have taken themselves out, we want to get back, the school-wrongers, school-wrongers, school-wrongers, and those people who have taken themselves out. They say it doesn't exist. 70,000 people without significant prospects do not exist for you. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Yes, of course! Don't talk nonsense! That's cockbucks!]] The root is at school, and there we have to pack it. They say it's all right. – Yes, that’s your opinion; reality looks different. And you also said it's in five instances, it's all so complicated. – You know exactly that at the beginning of the phase, when you notice that you have no progress, this phase can be shortened and a next step can be taken. Our objective on the part of the SPÖ and the ÖVP is not that we can achieve great revenue here either. It would be best for us if we had to remove zero penalties, zero euros, but at the end of this framework we also have to impose a penalty which, of course, can hurt. And that should be the case, because we have a compulsory schooling in Austria, and we have a duty that there should also be a sanctioning. Unfortunately, we have learned that this has been baggaged by your side. This may have been a problem in recent years and decades and a reason why we stand here today. We have recognized and put this problem from the coalition, I believe, here a good and effective step. We will now collect the data every year, as it has already happened. This will be evaluated within three years. We have to do motif research, and if we need improvements, or if one or another needs to be re-adjusted: Of course! You never learn, but it has to take a step and not be bagatized. We owe this to our next generation. I'll invite you to: Maybe you're still thinking, giving yourself a back and you're agreeing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20226	Mrs Mühlberghuber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20248	Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President. This five-stage plan, as provided for in the government template, is very complicated and only in extreme cases leads to a fine of up to €400 and, as before, only € 220. My colleague Dr. Walter Rosenkranz has already reported in detail: In this five-stage plan there are many conversations, a lot of time, a lot of administration, and school psychologists are to be used. ==References== April was read at orf.at: “The parents practice sharp criticism of politics. Although a level plan against school blacks will be developed, at the same time, functional aid such as through school psychologists would be ‘chaptered’. On several thousand students in Austria a school psychologist is coming and it will be in this area further sparsely criticized the senior parent for the Vienna high and middle schools, Johannes Theiner.” We also see this five-stage plan negative, and we do not think much of the threatened fines. It would be much more important to make it clear to parents that they have an important role model in the topic of school blacks and school dropouts. When parents take schooling seriously, the children take it seriously, which is also shown by international studies. Ladies and gentlemen, we call for the abolition of family allowances for those who permanently fail to comply with compulsory schooling. This would be a sensitive measure that parents would actually feel compared to a fine that is an absolutely toothless reminder. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20296	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. There is no final word on the part of the report. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft Federal Act amending the Education Documentation Act and the Education Documentation Act, including the title and receipt in 2198 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give the consent. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to the draft law to give a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner and colleagues on the management of compliance with school obligations on family aid. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This request does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act for School and Culture, title and entry in 2287 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Draft on Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act – Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture, Department of Educational higher education, title and entry in 2188 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this draft law a sign. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give them the approval at third reading, to give a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:47:00]] 9. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (2199, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the School Organisation Act, the Vocational Training Act, the compulsory school maintenance law 1985, the Basic Law on School Education and the Federal Law on the Principles for Agricultural and Forestry Vocational Schools (School Training Act 2013) (2286 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20409	We're on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20437	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! As has already been said, it is now about the skilled-worker training initiative law, and the good thing about this word of law is that the word “initiative” is inside. At the beginning of the discussion on this law was the initiative of citizens in the form of a parliamentary citizens' initiative, which was addressed to us here, to the House, and one of the representatives of this citizens' initiative is Mr Hubert Prigl, here too, welcomes the decision-making process and can now listen to the discussion here. [[The speaker turns to the speaker who is on the gallery]] Thank you for the initiative too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have the opportunity today to implement essentially the demands made to Parliament. There have been long discussions on this, and we have discussed it in the Committee, and the Committee has dealt with this issue several times. Very short of the background: More and more young unemployed, we experience this day after day, only have compulsory schooling. Among them are more and more and relatively many former apprentices, that is, young people who have begun a teaching but have not finished it, who do not have a positive degree in teaching. On the other hand, the economy complains of a lack of skilled workers. That is why, of course, the resurgence of educational qualifications is not only today, but it has also been a focus of the Federal Government so far. Thank you also for being able to take another step in this area today, Mrs Federal Minister. The re-examination of the education of skilled workers' examination is therefore a command of the hour today, and the new thing is that we can use vocational schools – and that is something that we must emphasize in particular – to realize this re-examination of the education of skilled workers' examination. In the future, vocational schools can and can also open the doors to those who have already been apprentices, for example, have a vocational training, but, as I have said, they do not have a positive degree in teaching. And it will be up to the vocational schools to develop flexible forms for the clientele, which may and hopefully will now also come. This can once be an evening school. be, that can be once a course, that can once be a single song in existing classes. So today we are closing a gap in our education system for this group of people. With today's decision, we also open up a second opportunity for many to become skilled workers with the help of vocational schools and also as partners of the AMS, i.e. the labour market service. I think this is a very important decision that we are making today. Finally, we also benefit from the high level of competence of teachers in our vocational schools. Today, we also demonstrate by our decision that direct democracy is possible in our country and initiatives from the people of Parliament are discussed and implemented in a factual manner – implemented in this case, I believe, by all political groups, and this is also a good sign. On behalf of the SPÖ Group, I would like to congratulate the initiators and once again a thank you to the Federal Minister for supporting this project.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20507	Mrs Franz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20528	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! We have a basic principle in our school system: no degree without connection. – Well, that’s perfectly right, but there must also be a connection after a demolition. And this is precisely what this change in the skilled-employee training initiative law is aimed at. It is about young people who have just broken down the teaching that is to be given a second chance and who are to be able to complete a teaching after a late start and to finish as a skilled worker. What's this about? What are the objectives? – There is an improved opportunity to reach the school and teaching degree in the second course of education. It is a contribution to the additional qualification of skilled workers. There is a well-founded vocational theoretic training there, and it allows the successful deposit of the degree examination; it is also facilitated. It is a contribution to the Lifelong Learning Strategy, i.e. to lifelong learning, and this strategy states that the free repetition of basic diplomas must be given and basic competences in adulthood must also be ensured. This counters the shortage of skilled workers. On the one hand, this law is an important contribution for young people, who, after difficulties in the beginning, can still come up with a higher qualification and, as a result, have a better professional opportunity, on the other hand, it will enable more skilled workers whom we urgently need in the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20559	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20580	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! I believe that what we decide here today can be seen very positively. The dual training system is really something to be seen. Austria has been in the education sector. rich, just what this dual training is about, internationally very, very presentable projects – and not only projects, but that also concerns the whole system. From this point of view, I have also been very grateful for your initiative, and it has been clear from the outset that we will, of course, support it. Of course, it is important that we make this otherwise more rigid system more flexible, especially for people who at the age of 20, at the age of 25 do not want to complete their training, and they do so now. What I am also very happy about, Mrs Minister, is that we are also saying quite clearly here, yes, that will cost something that we are precise that we need more planning sites – in the case of concrete ones, there are 88 planning sites that need to be created and created in addition. It has often been very, very difficult for vocational schools so far, because in reality these people were already in vocational schools, as we all know, but de facto had to be led as extraordinary students. This led to very, very large classes, and above all, when the maximum number of students was reached by 30, a stop had to be made. – It’s over, and that’s why, I think, it’s a real step. I am also glad that we are now able to recognise relatively unbureaucratic training, so that training may have to last only one year, possibly two that you can therefore take on it flexibly. Mrs Minister, you will not be surprised that I also have two critical points to make. [[Cheerfulness with Greens and ÖVP.]] The introduction of performance groups, which is now really advanced. That is where we focus on a model that unfortunately has also been introduced at the New Secondary Schools and on which the vocational school teachers are of course not prepared at all – I have already complained about one of them. It's just not practical. There has so far been no training for colleagues at schools, and this will be very difficult to implement. And if I read formulations like those in Article 1: “Competence orientation must be school-oriented, but also result-oriented and process-oriented in order to satisfy the above-mentioned demands,” I can only hope that the vocational school teachers have kept the orientation. They're more likely to get out of these formulations. A step that needs to be taken – and we have discussed it several times in the Committee – is that vocational schools need to be upgraded as a whole. And I am convinced that if we succeed in making the modularisation more meaningful – for example in the field of vocational schools, in the field of polytechnic schools and then also in the field of vocational education, so that pupils can more easily pass through – then it may also be possible to integrate vocational schools more effectively into this high-level school system and to provide students with the opportunity to reach higher degrees as well. That would, I believe, be a project for the future that we can tackle together. And if it goes on as constructively as it is in this case in the Committee, I am sure that we can also achieve the objective.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20646	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20668	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With this law the public hand takes, as legislators we take about € 4.7 million annually, connected with 88 planning sites, to make one, as we believe, important and right investment in young people – and any investment in young people is a good investment in the future. Young people should have the opportunity to reach an education degree in the second course, in this case to re-acquire the vocational school, from the age of 20 years – that is, young adults who have perhaps already tried one or the other, and who, as has already been said, have so far only had the opportunity to be conducted as extraordinary students in the vocational school. And what is certainly positive is that over-company training has also been extended. We will vote in favour of this bill, as well as in the Committee, because it is an essential contribution to countering the continuing shortage of skilled workers, as well as increasing youth unemployment. We have already discussed and debated the need for qualified apprentices in the field of vocational schools or in the polytechnic schools. This need for qualified apprentices and skilled workers is very, very large in Austria, and with this decision today we also contribute to the fact that the competitiveness and the location advantage of our country, our companies, is also given in the future. What pleases me as the Commissioner of the Committee on Petitions is that it was a citizens' initiative that ultimately led to a legislative text, which is very rarely the case in the case of citizens' initiatives and petitions.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20705	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20726	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, I will, of course, agree with this TOP 9. I'm glad there's something going on. Mr Riepl has done so. It's very practical, I have to say, because we've just seen that there are people who only later get that a degree is important, or who can't end the training through a pregnancy. They then have the opportunity to get their degree at the vocational school, which I think is good. Before, we heard: How's it going in practice? – This can only be done if both sides want to; quite clearly. That is to say, with young or young adults who then come up with 25 I want to complete the teaching at last, I assume that he is dealing with a good portion of ambition – but of course also the teachers, who then know, okay, there is someone who may already have professional experience, has worked as an auxiliary worker and now wants to finish. And I like that. I think it's in the right direction. If I look at the statistics, we still have to do something about the many demolitions. In the over-company teaching workshops, we have 32 percent of young people who stop teaching, and in the normal forms of teaching, it is only 15 percent. In other words, at the over-company teaching workshops, we must, in so far as Let's say that the young people do the degree and do not break the teaching. Then the whole thing goes in the right direction. And that is why we will also support it, because many young people only later insist that it is important to have a degree, not only in terms of income, but also in terms of appreciation and so on. That is why we shall, at least, agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20763	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20784	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I very much welcome this measure and would also like to thank Mr Prigl and Mr Riepl personally for their commitment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you: No meeting with these two gentlemen without mentioning this initiative! I am pleased that it is so far today and that this measure can be implemented today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In doing so, we complete a larger package of measures, which we have already prepared in great detail, at the time with you, Mr Amon, as an educational speaker. These were the 15a contracts: acquisition of basic education: free of charge; After completion of compulsory schooling – also a 15a contract –: free of charge; and now: Rehabilitation of vocational education as an ordinary student. For me, this is an important measure, a complete package for a group of people whose education careers are not so smooth. Here we take important steps, here we take central steps, and I am very pleased that we will take these steps together and all will agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20820	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20842	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! If young people cannot carry out qualified work, they have little opportunity to gain experience in professional life and to invest in their future. For young people, the opportunity to take a positive course is enormous if, after a break, they can go back to the vocational school in order to prepare for the degree examination. And this possibility is now being created by this draft legislation on the training of skilled workers. It has been mentioned several times that this initiative is based on a citizens' initiative that was launched in Parliament in February 2011. I would also like to thank the Socialist Group's petitions for bringing this over-participative citizens' initiative, first of all Mr Hubert Prigl and his colleagues. The initiative was supported by more than 7 000 citizens and discussed in detail in advance with the petitioners and the Committee on Petitions. Following opinions from the relevant ministries, the initiative was allocated to the Teaching Committee and, after successful negotiations today, met with the agreement of this request. I would also like to thank my colleagues Franz Rieplschte once again, who has been very committed to this issue. It is also about promoting over-company training and increasing the permeability of vocational education and training in order to combat the shortage of skilled workers in Austria. We know that the resurgence of diplomas, of positive degrees in later life is much more complex, not always successful, and most often more expensive. And young people should not be able to walk as auxiliary workers, but as skilled workers, to cope well with their incomes and to be motivated to pursue further qualifications. I think it is very positive that all six political groups in Parliament will be able to agree to the necessary innovations in school law and can therefore also be met a demand from the educational people's desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20884	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20916	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! – The clubman never stands in the way, I can testify! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – It is pleasant, dear Ladies and gentlemen, this novelle is so widely supported here. Not only because it is a question of young people being able to finish on the second course of education, but because the economy in times like this urgently needs professionals and it also needs appropriate measures and framework conditions to address this shortage of skilled workers in Austria. Young people currently participate very intensively in job placement foundations or in-service training courses. This is, however, only recognized by extraordinary means in vocational schools, i.e. as an extraordinary student. It's supposed to change in the future. This means that in future these young people will also be admitted as ordinary pupils in vocational schools. I think that this is a good and right measure, which I believe, for the first time, I have heard something positive from Mr Walser here in this House – is supported by the Greens. That's something, Mrs. Federal Minister, we can write that down today. What I would also like to mention today, because I think it is an important measure, that is the concreteisation to the central matura. So far, it has been true that the oral examination and the written examination was then considered as an overall note and was assessed in total. After both can now be assessed separately, there is also the possibility to repeat the written examination in the negative case. This is also clarified by this regulation. I think that, as a result of a positive decision-making process, nothing stands in the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20959	Mrs Mag. Rudas is now coming to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e20980	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! After I am the last speaker and no one has reported to the Greens, I already say, also in the sense of overpartyism and alliances, that especially in the field of education the Greens often have good ideas. I think you can say that here. Nevertheless, it is very essential, which has already been stretched out: Those who complain of the shortage of skilled workers usually have a better lobby and a stronger and a louder lobby than those we want as professionals, namely the young people. And all the more thanks to the initiators, Franz Riepl, for their commitment to the fact that some 3,000 young people have the opportunity to get a degree. Of course, I would also like to thank the Minister, who accepted this initiative and brought it into effect. Austria is once again a model for training when it comes to youth employment, because of the guarantee of training, but also because of our dual training system. And that is why I welcome an all-party request here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e21023	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 2286 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this draft law a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask all those who agree with this draft law at third reading to give it a sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:10:22]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Education on the proposal from Mrs Mathias Venier, on the amendments to the public schools curriculum (2289 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e21078	We're on the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Venier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e21108	Good evening, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is then amazing what artificially outraged and hysterical theatre some of you have already performed in the run-up to this debate. Not that it would not be customary for the opposition to be categorized categorically, just because they come from the wrong side or ideologically do not fit into any concept. No, there is nothing special about the fact that instead of arguing objectively, it is preferable to polemize and go against people. Not that one would not be used to reminding the level of a Vienna backyard in parts of this Parliament rather than of a parliamentary organ. No, because we're all very used to that now. But if you hear expressions like “Parallelwelten”, “Cultural struggle”, “Unbearable”, “absurd”, “one another” or “Kampfanträge” in advance of a media-active debate, because the ORF has already completely stopped its reporting, then you know that you have not only stooped into a waspenst, you know, ladies and gentlemen, that you have met the black. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that this debate is being debated is also urgently necessary, because it is urgently necessary, first of all, that you, ladies and gentlemen, from the red-black-green-and-oranged one-front, say quite clearly that your absurd, ideologically motivated concept of political correctness, on which in turn other, completely absurd concepts such as motivated spleens, interculturalism or gender mainstreaming depend, is nothing but the best way to fall. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: “Political Correctness”, you must not say that!]] It is precisely these concepts, ladies and gentlemen, that not only contradict the freedom of every individual in our country, but also the freedom of expression, in many areas, but also the real interests of our country, whether in social or economic terms. And above all, they contradict logic and every home mind, because logically it would be that the person should get a job that is best qualified for it, and not the one that needs to be promoted for whatever reason. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also logical that the cohesion of a state population is not only promoted and created by a legal corset, but above all by common values and cultural harmony. But you, mys. Ladies and gentlemen, ignore all of this! For example, home sense and basic economic concepts such as those of supply and demand do not play a role in your thinking. But for that, a lot of leftist ideology and the urgent need – and that is why you do it – to crush bourgeois-free society. And to that we say the liberals firmly no! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But the fact that you still want to introduce these crazy doctrines to our children from a small point of view, before they can even learn how they actually do in life, is particularly infamious. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the past, there was the open educational dictatorship of socialism from the so-called Free German Youth of the GDR to the Komsomol of the USSR. [[Jöp-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] Today, the red educational dictatorship no longer wears uniforms and flags, because today, admittedly decorated with beautiful words, it comes from the restraint of the curriculum. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Tell me, where did you get this?]] You would have the chance today, ladies and gentlemen of red, black, green and orange, to end this red educational dictatorship once and for all. That this will not happen, of course, is clear to me. But at least it was openly shown today, and this is a first important step.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e21211	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e21248	Mr Venier! Level is really a good keyword, I think that would give you... – I can explain it to you: [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Sonja! Can you say something about this strange speech from earlier on?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Venier would like to remove intercultural learning from the curriculum. Mr Venier, what is called intercultural competence, can be read. Recently, a kindergarten teacher has summarized well in a contribution: This is about willingness and openness to perceive and accept differences. It is about the willingness, ability and possibility of self-reflection. The knowledge that contradictions, for example, are not in principle contradictions, is part of that. The willingness and ability to feel in others is part of that. The ability to adapt flexibly to a variety of opinions is one of these. A certain degree of frustration tolerance and adaptability so that contradictions can also be overcome; a conflict capacity is part of it. For example, not to see the other in principle as the stranger and enemy and to lift one's own action from an unconscious, unreflected level to a conscious, reflected level. [[Abg. Oils: Now it's going to be terrifying! It's too far!]] Mr Venier, this is the canon of intercultural learning. Reflecting is part of this and level, I'm putting it very much at your heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e21296	Next speaker: Mrs Marek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e21317	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say, Mr Venier, that you have now shifted my picture of the liberals. They spoke of "Political Correctness". A party that even speaks of “home side” takes the word “political correctness” into its mouth. I am shocked, Mr Venier. I have to say that now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] But on the matter itself, on the request, ladies and gentlemen. You say you argue with the mind of the house, and with that you also argue this request. I don't even want to address your many galvanized arguments that you have argued with here. In any case, we argue on the basis of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. This proposal is unconstitutional in many respects: He is opposed to the freedom of religion enshrined in the Constitution, he is opposed to the prohibition of indoctrination, which is contained in the Constitution, he separates, he does not agree that we should force the cohesion of the population, as you claim in the application, but he separates the population. As far as gender mainstreaming is concerned: Mr President, you were not in the committee, but you have only been told from second hand, but if you do not understand what Gender Mainstreaming means, then you should not argue with it either. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Then why do you constantly argue with that?]] Gender mainstreaming means looking at how action affects the sexes. And especially in education policy – and that was a topic in the teaching committee – it is so important to look at the different measures they have on girls and boys. This is very important, especially in the field of education and education. And I say it again: If you don't understand what you're talking about, then you should leave it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e21366	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e21403	That's right, Mr Amon. – Mr Venier is really poor today, because what we have heard so far is already very hard words. He has found little support here, however, Mr Amon, that the ÖVP is communistally undermined. I'd take care of that. After what I heard from my colleague Marek, she could be one of the submarines. [[Abg. Head: We're going to do the thing!]] I would recommend that you look a little more precisely in your own ranks, because nothing should happen. [[Abg. Amon: It was in China right now!]] Mr Venier, I mean, there are really wonderful sentences in there. I thought it might be a contribution to the carnival. But you're serious. So you really think it's with us – what do you call it? – “officially spent foreign ways of life” gives a way of bringing down our state in some way or making greater problems in schools. The details have already been given to the Members before. I can save myself that. I've been looking at where your family name comes from, colleague Venier. Venieri could be a source – according to Wikipedia – then you would have moved from the Italian. [[Abg. Amon: What's his name?]] Venier is the second variant that is given, that would be from French. Have you really researched in your family whether you could not also be part of this migration of our society? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: And where does your name come from?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Has She may also think that we are here in this high house in a house dating from the 19th century. From the 19th century, from the Habsburg monarchy? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] I'm just saying multiculti! There is no much more multiculti than there was in the Habsburg monarchy at that time. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: And what happened to the Habsburg monarchy?]] Multidisciplinary monarchy, language diversity, incredible has taken place there. And, of course, you're right, these 600 years of multiculti in our history have really beat down. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] There has really been this offensively spent foreign way of life. Remember, if you may eat a gulyá after this session – I'm just saying, look out! –, or if you try powidl bags. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Wiener Saftgulasch is called that!]] They are more of a Czech, no, they are Romanian. [[Abg. May. Worm: Pizza!]] I really don't know exactly what these areas are. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I tell you, not even the Wiener Schnitzel has actually come from Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is from Turkey!]] The experts are fighting. One says it came with Mr. Feldmarschall Radetzky from Milan – this thesis is controversial, it is not Vienna. I'm typing on “offensively spent foreign way of life, ” which has found its rainfall here. [[Abg. Dr. Rosary: Monarchy!]] Not even the Vienna coffee house – I have to let you down – is ground floor. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: And your name, where does it come from?]] I do not want to say “aryan” or any other term, but not even the coffee house has been created here, but – even there are different theories – the Turks, hui, quite dangerous, it might have been. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Nikolo is also from Turkey!]] In reality, it may have been Armenians, who have had the monopoly on coffee in Vienna for a long time. At the next coffee you drink, remember that you do not poison yourself and do not offensively live the foreign ways of life! Think a little bit about it when you talk to your gentlemen in the party: Vilimsky, strache, the family names are suspicious. - I'm just telling you: Multikulti, watch out!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e21618	Next, Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e21640	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If one tries to deal seriously with this request and to discuss this de facto ban on gender mainstreaming and interculturalism in the curriculums as you want it to be, then you can only be asked, Mr Venier, to carry it out consistently. [[Abg. Bucher: Homepage!]] Then you have to be consistent in the field of education! Then we have to discuss everything. Then next time you have to make a request and say that we must abolish the numbers from one to ten being taught in schools because our numbers from one to ten – oh my God, watch out! – are Arab, Mr Venier! Over Xenophobia, stop, you have to make a request immediately, which may no longer be informed! [[Mr Amon and Mr Marek.]] Let's keep thinking about that. The numbers are Arabic, they're falling away. Can we still teach the alphabet – A to Z – in our schools? [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Jarolim.]] You don't think that's possible either, because - help! – the alphabet is also not German, not “aryan”. It's from Greece. Our alphabet comes from Greece. [[Abg. Hornek: Latin letters for God's sake!]] Let's keep thinking about that. Geometry, can we still teach them in our schools when it comes to you? - They shake the head: Nor is it possible, the geometry is not from Germany or from your territory, to which you feel so committed, but it also has its origin somewhere below, which is for you foreign, hostile cultural land. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Foreign languages!]] Foreign languages: Should our children learn foreign languages? - They can't do that anymore. We have to abolish English, abolish French, abolish Italian, abolish Spanish, abolish Slovenian because this is all foreign culture. There we can only speak more German at our schools. Then have to But please rule out Mr Ragger and Mr Scheuch, both of whom send their children to school in Italy. The children of Mr Ragger are taught there in three to four languages, which I consider to be positive and correct. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Football!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] You as a young person should perhaps be a little interested in Mr Ragger. I find it shocking when such a young man as you, Mr Venier, represents such eternal views. That really shocks me! [[Congratulations with BZÖ, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Think a little bit! When we think of this, we also need to abolish religious teaching, because if we have Roman Catholic religious teaching, then we also have the Islamic and the evangelical, that is all completely evil and demonic for you. You will then have to abolish that, but then our school and our education system will not be much left. Then we can't teach anything at all – except German. [[Abg. Krainer: Turnen! Turnfather Jahn!]] I am in favour of our youth being open-minded, that it will be educated world-wide, also to other cultures, because we live in a common, united Europe in which as a young person one has the more opportunities to find a job, to have an orderly income and to live a reasonable life, the more foreign languages one masters, the more worldly, the more intercultural one is. The policy you represent leads to unemployment and after yesterday. This is a policy that we certainly do not support, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Venier, you want to abolish interculturalism in schools. I believe that you mean intercultural learning, but then you have to look at what intercultural learning means in its discipline. Intercultural learning includes, in fact, the area you are afraid of. In intercultural learning, there is an area of its own that is called the hyper-correction or the counter-correction, which is about making it clear to schools by hyper-correction or counter-correction, that over-adjustment to the other is also wrong, that this is understood as false learning, Mr Venier. [[Abg. Krainer: Now you require my colleague to be intellectual!]] This is also part of intercultural learning. That is, you speak against something that has already taken into account your concerns and criticism in itself through this hyper-correction and counter-correction, which is part of this intercultural learning. [[Abg. Grandruck: closing word!]] Before making such applications, please inform yourself! Final sentence: This request by Mr Venier also proves – and I am just saying this to the ÖVP – that it is, I believe, very dangerous to consider a coalition with the FPÖ, because I do not want to live in a country in which such applications become laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e21790	Mr Hübner spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e21811	It is interesting, perhaps also funny, that this topic is considered only as a Kasperl Theatre. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: I took the request seriously!]] We have already said that there is a request that finally challenges Mr Walser from another ideological corner to an ideological discussion. What does Mr Walser tell us? No word on the request, but he told us that there is Gulyás, Powidl Tackerln, the name Venier and that we drink coffee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] We shouldn't do that. Have you actually read what Mr Venier has requested? Did you read that a little bit? – He called for deideologisation of the order to the schools. He referred to the words “intercultural” and “gener mainstreaming”. He then added a small passage about what he found particularly objectionable. Of course, one can be of different opinion what the school should do. It can be said that the school should teach knowledge, teach education. It can also be said that it should teach what parents cannot. But I don't think she should. To teach education. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: But social competence should also be taught!]] There we might even find a common denominator if you are quite, quite honest when you take off the ideological coats and consider: [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: No excuses!]] Do we really want a school to teach these things that we have said, or do we want an educational institution in our political sense? [[Abg. Marek: Why do you talk about educational institutions?]] There are many – and these are those who are currently responsible for the school sector – who believe that humanity needs to be educated through schools. I say what I want, Mrs Marek. I'm at the speaker's desk and I'm talking about what I want, you don't need to ask me why I'm talking. I am talking because I have an opinion on this issue. That the one that deviates from yours does not entitle you to ask why. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My opinion differs considerably from yours, Mrs Marek. I've written with what you said. You have said that our constitution – you are a constitutional expert, apparently more than I am – knows a ban on indoctrination. I do not know anyone in our constitution, but it would be nice if the Constitution knew it, because a free democratic constitution should know something like that. [[Abg. Grossruck: Know! – If sentences were unscrupulous!]] That is why I am surprised that you argue with a constitutional ban on indoctrination, and then the indoctrination speaks the word. What Mr Venier wants is exactly one thing, not an indoctrination! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: Catastrophe!]] Mr Venier wants a value-neutral and ideologically neutral education, and he does not want to be “pretentious”. The gender is very up-to-date at the moment, and Mrs Minister is also in favour of giving, but there are many things that are up-to-date. [[Call the SPÖ:Where does he speak?]] ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== In the 19th century, the Enlightenment, the Freemasonry, was very up-to-date. ==References== It was nationalism, in the first half of the last century nationalism to the extreme, we know that anyway. Now, by chance, the “genery ” is up to date. But that doesn't necessarily mean that we want to move the students to hell out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] That's what I'm about to end up with: This concern, however, is, even if one may encounter individual words, because they do not fit an ideologically, because one loves the words, because one almost “genders” into heaven by word – as in the 16th century. At the end of the century, the fools were justified, justified and important for every pluralist and democrat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e21991	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 2289 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[22:33:48]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (2164 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the University Law 2002, the High School and High School Law 1998, the Studienförderungsgesetz 1992 (Study Promotion Act 1992), the Fachhochschule-Studengesetz and the Higher Quality Assurance Act (Bundesministerium für Wissenschaft und Forschung) (2282 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22037	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr. Liste. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22064	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister Däderle! High house! The new administrative jurisdiction makes it necessary to have an adaptation law of the science unit. In the future, vocations in student funding issues will fall within the competence of the Federal Administrative Court. The Committee has been very comprehensively discussed on detailed issues of the government template under the consultation of experts. There were many questions that could not be resolved. In concrete terms, the problem of too long periods in appeal proceedings – for example, students could lose two semesters, maybe more, – is shown or the proper classification of opinions from the university Senate. These problems exist. The representatives of the two government parties have announced that these open questions will be resolved here in the House until the decision is taken. It didn't happen. Here again, in great coalition manner, the opposition is passed over. Since the detailed questions raised have not been resolved, the BZÖ will not agree to this government proposal. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, this debate allows us to provide an up-to-date report on science policy in Austria. There is a standstill in science policy. There are student frustration and chaos at the universities. In principle, the ÖVP is responsible for the chaos at the universities. The ÖVP has been working continuously for 25 years in the Federal Government and on the power levers of the country. [[Abg. Wheeler: That's good!]] All the ministers have failed: Hahn has failed, Karl has failed, and now also daughters. [[Abg. Hornek: Go, stop!]] You have failed in science policy! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the protests and cries of the rectors are also justified. They're calling for a lifeguard for universities. This is a rather reasonable proposal which has the support of the BZÖ. We note: Enough paid! Enoughly paid, no euro for pleite greeks and speculators in the banks or for these Cyprus funds that are now without purpose. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We demand a lifeguard for our universities. Now we have to say: With the new saving pressure of the failed federal government, the Unimillarde is moving enormously with the federal financial framework law. The universities are in annoyance with turbulence. Here you need an acute action, Minister of State! Take over the BZÖ requirements, our science program by Josef Bucherand our science spokesman Rainer Widmann! Short-term heavy weights are the immediate billions for higher education, the reintroduction of study fees and access restrictions or our Unibonus. Copying is allowed, even before the elections in autumn. Only our measures guarantee that the universities will remain workshops of the future. Mr. Federal Minister Däderle, put it into practice! Just a few months left for you!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22123	Next, Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22145	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear viewers! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There are no more spectators there, not even television transmits more!]] It would certainly have been interesting to hear live the ten different legal opinions that we heard in the committee and which my previous speaker mentioned. In fact, the field of administrative jurisdiction, when it comes to universities, is a somewhat bulky matter. Why? The reform of administrative jurisdiction is a major work, for all administrative procedures. However, it is not so easy to transfer to the education sector, because this is about learning processes, here it is about assessment, here it is about that I can understand the way in which I am judged how a curriculum is built. It must be understandable where a performance assessment comes from. This is something other than knowing about a property or a matter. Learning is always something that has to do with the question of whether the goals that have been set for me have been achieved by me, and whether the speakers find that I have achieved the goals. Secondly, there is something like a binding curriculum. With this I can see how the accountability looks. All these questions have so far been answered in higher education with great satisfaction. On the example of the University of Vienna, Senate President Fuchs explained that there were 800 cases at the Senate so far, one of which landed before the court. We see, therefore, that it has worked so far, but – and this is what we are doing – in the course of the great reform, it makes sense to implement this reform in all departments to bring about a new regulation in these two instances, so that the administrative court is also responsible in these proceedings. As a result, students can also contact the administrative court in the instance. This administrative reform is a major reform and therefore it must also be respected that it should be implemented in this area. It is important to us that there is no legal obligation and that students have easy access to their law in the future. But even more important in the field of education is prevention, because in fact a good learning process should look so much that I also want to achieve the objectives I set myself and that I also come to an appropriate assessment. Prevention also means accountability within Austria. If I cross from Innsbruck to Vienna, the study should be as similar as possible or the skills required should be so similar that they are also credited to me and I have no standing times. However, all of this should not be carried out before the court in the future, but should be subject to a transparent procedure as far as possible. Therefore, I also believe that a much more important body for improving quality has been created with the AQ Austria in particular, which is intended to ensure that there is a level playing field. With the Bologna reform, however, we want to have a level playing field not only in Austria, but throughout Europe. There has certainly been a first important step, but at some universities and universities for Bologna, especially as far as the Bachelor's degree programme is concerned, too many different courses are offered. I therefore believe that the next major step towards quality improvement is not only in court, but above all in formulating the Bachelor's studies even more generally and then continuing specialization in the Master's programme, ensuring that Bologna is also recognized by the employers and that Not only within Austria, but also within Europe becomes even easier than ever, although the first steps that have been taken in the direction already point in the right direction and allow students more mobility. It is important that we focus on the permeability between universities. For example, Mr Federal Minister, I could also imagine an increase in the quality of teacher education by ensuring the equivalence of diplomas at the educational universities with university degrees. As you are in negotiations with the Federal Minister of Education, and as we have managed to bring about a level playing field between universities and vocational colleges, the next step in teacher education is to ensure that the educational universities are also included in this quality assurance association. That's all right. I am already looking forward to the forthcoming debate and hope that someone who is not yet convinced will finally vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22181	Mrs Cortolezis, I would like to draw attention to this: I have received an amendment which has not been tabled. [[Abg. May. Cortolezis-Schlager: He's coming!]] Mrs Mag. Kuntzl will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22217	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced period, I do not want to artificially extend the debate. Mr Cortolezis-Schlager has already explained in detail what this item is about. We have discussed this in detail in the Committee in an expert hearing. I think we were the only committee to deal with this new adaptation even with an expert hearing. As far as the deadlines are concerned, we could have imagined that we are making another change. However, one can also see the matter differently, namely that the attempt is made, as much as possible – that was also the intention at the universities – to solve questions that arise and arise, within the university and that longer periods can also lead to a corresponding extensive consultation at the universities and thus the solution can be found in the first instance, at the universities. This is, of course, a system change that needs to be observed. Perhaps, if this does not prove to be the case, one will change that again some time later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22244	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22265	Madam President. Federal Minister! Yes, this expert hearing only existed in the Scientific Committee because there was a very special situation. The academic Senate has a very special importance for university autonomy, which has existed or still exists, and which has grown historically and is traditional at the universities. It was mentioned by representatives of the Academic Senate, in particular by Professor Fuchs, that it is about quality assurance and the like, in which the university is reluctant to “punch” – under quotation marks. Nevertheless, the representative of the academic Senate has meant that this solution has been developed and appears to him as practical. It may still be seen that there will be some kind of childhood disease, and it will probably also be noticed that this big throw, which will bring this change, will bring this reform of the administrative jurisdiction in Austria, may still be some repair site. Nevertheless, we must implement this. However, if one now believes – and the representatives of the BZÖ have expressed this, both the colleague list and the colleague Haubner, when it came to the issue of teaching materials – that the reform of jurisdiction does not go quickly enough or otherwise, it must already be considered: If we want to fulfil the Convention on Human Rights on this point – and that is nothing else – by simply following acts of administration as early as possible by a court, by a full court, and by reviewing their legality and accuracy, legal certainty does not necessarily mean quick justice. We need to be aware of this. Nor can the rule of law see to it that it is going to be cheaper. All political groups were clear about the fact that this reform does not have to be done under the influence or pressure of cost savings, but that it eliminates an inconspicuous rage from special authorities and that the human rights convention requires that it be tribunals. It was not the question whether it would be cheaper or not. On the contrary, there were Everyone is actually aware that there will be a need for start-up funding. The solution was: Although a lot has been discussed, although good arguments have been put forward, we have said that we must now find a practical solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22305	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22326	Madam President. Minister! For me, as a constitutional speaker, it is very welcome to follow this novelle of administrative jurisdiction: How, then, is what we have defined in the Constitutional Committee in long, tough negotiations, including various motions for resolutions, which we have adopted to make improvements, now implemented in the various specialist committees in the legislation on matter? If you, Mrs Kuntzl, say that it was unique that there was this hearing, then that may be true. As regards history, however, the completeness has already been noted in the light of the fact that there was a motion for a resolution, which we have jointly adopted with the Constitutional Law, in which it was quite clear that all groups represented in the Senate should be involved in the preparation of the government template, and this has simply not happened, just as it is often the case that resolutions of this House – and even resolutions adopted unanimously – are usually ignored by members of the government as in the case. That's how this happened here, and the hearing was, if you want to, a repair exactly this contempt. It was, of course, a good thing under the rule, but there was a lot of discussion there too. But this point, which was clearly contained in the motion for a resolution, namely the involvement of all these groups in the preparation of the solution, has not taken place. The solution is now, let's say, necessary in the rough, but there are already optimization possibilities. I shall then put forward another amendment, which points to two points: One has already been mentioned by you, these are the deadlines. We see no reason, in fact, to distance ourselves from the general deadlines, namely the two months, and to set aside four months, especially since it is necessary to imagine that these are decisions that are relevant to the question of whether someone loses an entire semester. It is often not just about two months, but much more. The question of admission may well happen that one loses a semester, i.e. a semester on or off, and that is not a crack for a student, a student. The second aspect raised in our resolution is the issue of opinions. Now it is – and this is the solution to the question of how the Senate can be further involved – that the Senate can deliver an opinion on the pre-vocational decision of the rectorate. In our view, the word “Opinion” should be replaced by “Opinion” or the quality opinion by the quality opinion. Why? – Because opinions on the Senate's side means that students who want to turn to such an opinion must reply on the same level, i.e. also with an opinion. We all know what opinions mean. This usually means high costs, and that therefore usually means a reduction in legal protection, which we all did not want to do in the decisions relating to procedural law, concerning the overall administrative judicial reform. That is why I make the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] We hope that you will still be able to agree to our amendment. Despite this, we will support the government template, which, of course, is a problematic starting point. However, I think the problem situation is clear to everyone, and against this background it would only be useful. One point that was also raised in the motion for a resolution was the point that professors – great I – opposed! – may be used by the administrative courts as experts within the framework of their professional duties. The idea is also obvious: When the professors are used as experts and that is their professional duty, no cost is charged. This means, therefore, that more cost-effective legal protection for the students who are taking legal remedies here. So let us also follow in the matter laws what we have formulated at the constitutional level as a goal: A good legal protection, a cost-effective legal protection, an improvement of legal protection for all.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22403	The amendment just tabled is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22462	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Daughters. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22483	Madam President. High house! In the course of today's debate, three laws must also be adapted in the field of science. This is once the University Law, second the Studienförderungsgesetz and thirdly the High School and High School Law. In the latter two, there are only shifts of instances. In the university law we have tried to obtain the participation of the Senate and the professors. I, as a university teacher and then as a rector, have gained the knowledge that this co-worker It is very, very important and essential to maintain. However, we understand that we cannot, of course, be excluded from the administrative jurisdictional novelle as a whole. It has succeeded in finding a good solution. We have found this solution together with the speakers of the Senate, with the University Conference and with the Austrian high school and high school. I think it's a good solution. It has also been said again and again in the last debate in the Technical Committee that the term “Opinion”, which has been called into question today, is more favourable to this solution, because this is the way the Senate is more involved, and that is the most important. The Senate can then issue opinions to the competent body, and this means that the institution is required to decide on the basis of these opinions. In this way, we have secured the very, very proven integration of the Senate in an elegant way. I am grateful if the part of the novelle that concerns us is accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22525	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22547	Madam President. Federal Minister! As announced, I now make the following request for clarification: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am seeking to take account of the amendment in the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22623	You are perfectly right, Mrs Deputies. The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22647	Ladies and gentlemen. Only the correctness and shape once again: ==References== A Federal Administrative Court and a Federal Finance Court as well as a Regional Administrative Court in each federal state will be set up at the federal level in January 2014. At the same time, independent administrative authorities are dissolved and a two-stage transfer to the administrative courts is introduced. We knew that there could be some difficulties in implementing the reform of jurisdiction, especially in the fields of education, education and also in the field of universities. It was quite exciting for everyone, as I think, as part of the expert hearing, to hear the different arguments about the various problems. Especially challenging was the autonomy of the academic Senate – the minister has already done this in detail. This made it necessary for a very complicated procedure, and from my point of view this has been very well solved in the field of education and science. Mr Kuntzl has already referred to the problem of deadlines. That's where you'll see and evaluate things. All in all, however, it is quite possible to congratulate these laws. I mean, it's a good way to put the administrative jurisdiction on new feet, as we have all decided together. We have solved this well in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22678	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22699	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing the Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act, which has already been said a lot about it. In future, the Federal Administrative Court will deal with appeals in the fields of study funding. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] For me, however, the key to this law is the promotion of studies, the promotion of studies, the admission and the like. Mr Minister, it is now starting the time again, where the maturants must have considered themselves or already thought about what they will do next year after the Matura. I am concerned about the fact that in the last few years, there have been constantly changing conditions for students or students in Austria. While in other countries, especially in the Anglo-Saxon area, for decades, if not even for centuries, the same guidelines exist at universities – everyone can already depend on them during his secondary education period – it is currently Usus in Austria that there really is a change every year. Apart from the fact that free access has actually become history this year, the conditions of authorisation and the restrictions on admission are also changing annually. The best example is MedUni Vienna. Last year, you know, the gender insanity, the gender, as we have heard today, has really taken a wild grip on it and created real injustices. We have discussed this very, very often here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to say once again what actually happened at that time. At that time, evaluations of the results of the EMS test have shown that boys cut off better than girls. And then you didn't go here and changed the test, but you just made a shift in the scale of music, to German: The evaluation keys for women and men have been changed. That was a smooth break in the constitution, there was a lot of discussions last year, decisions, meetings, including the Senate. You have turned on, you have gratefully, this must be mentioned in praise, even because of our pressure then 60 new places of study have been financed, which have then been countered again. So he goes on there again, that madness. And then, obviously, the university insists that you've done a little wrong, you just don't admit it. But this year the approval test has been changed again. So we've got new conditions this year, other than last year and last year. I simply feel this for the students, but also for the teachers, if we are quite honest, as an expression that this is so slipping back and forth in Austria and that there are no longer any right conditions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The consequence of this whole story is that the scientific location, the university location Austria, has done real serious damage and has already taken it. In the rankings – we know – we are far removed from all universities, we also know that training in Austria is being done and is also gladly assumed, but especially in medicine, the young students think about leaving the country in large numbers. Every fourth Austrian – not even those who are not in the quota – student wants to leave the country, 25 percent. This means, on the other hand, that in several areas of Austria, we can no longer guarantee basic medical care now, in 2013. There is a medical need study which varies between 3,000, 7 500 and 10,000 missing doctors in 2030. And that's what I'm actually expecting, and that's what I'm talking about now, but also initiatives. There has now been an initiative, including our pressure. The University of Medicine Linz, which I am still speaking about here, should now actually become reality. I hope you stick to what you said in your broadcasts. I have heard positively that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is more or less a member of the cherung. You said, well, let's look, but were cautiously positive. There would be another way to increase the medical rate. Our way, in addition to creating new universities, would be to say away with the access restrictions. We all sitting in here and having an academic degree, including in medicine, also studied at mass universities at the time, and there was no problem at all that 2,000 young people started. It's gone. Training has always been criticized, you can always improve something, but in general education has not been bad, and generally ordinary academics, ordinary doctors or lawyers have also come out. And why all this should be different today, no one has yet been able to explain it to me. This whole insanity with the admission restrictions that we need new universities, that we may have to fly in from abroad extra new doctors, even though we train and pay for them with our tax money, is not to be seen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that is where we expect you, Minister, to take initiatives, and that you are truly visionary, not to prohibit thinking. I know in some studies it's recommended to limit, but just in medicine we see that we might go a different way, and it's all right.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22783	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22805	Mr President. Federal Minister! After Mr Karlsböck did not speak on the subject, yet interesting and, in part, incorrectly, very briefly back on the subject: The new instance trains leading to administrative jurisdiction make sense, as they are provided for. I've been like my colleagues from the Greens, during the hearing I've also thought: Well, is the word “certificate” the ideal form for the integration of the Senate, and then does a student have to answer with a counter opinion? I can tell you: No, no, no, In the case of a court, the trust of a collegial body such as the Senate is not the usual way in which an expert opinion is requested. And just because the law provides that there is no need for a lawyer, you won't think of it as a student. On the other hand, the Senate has so far decided on its own in the first instance. Now, on the one hand, the student has the Senate's decision and, in addition, the Court's opinion, so he's better in his legal position than he has been before. Similarly, the concerns that the students had in hearing, because of the extension of the period from usually two months to four, honestly, also thoughtfully, voted me in the sense of whether this is necessary. But if you look at the fact that this opinion already exists in the first instance, this opinion of the Senate, and probably in the second instance – if it goes so far at all, in the rarest cases – this is the case again and needs to be re-used in the rarest cases, then it is likely that this period will be really and honestly scarcely ever used – unless there are very difficult cases where I am then glad that the Senate takes sufficient time, as in the absence of titles in the context of a plagiarism procedure, where a particularly careful Senate examination seems to me to be quite necessary. That is why we will not join the amendment and ask the Greens to perhaps consider this differently. As far as Mr Karlsböck and the lack of medicine in Austria are concerned, there is very little, that is nothing in the hands of our Federal Minister, because I am sure that the number of students – and that is what the Federal Minister can define – is quite enough to ensure basic medical care in this country. But if – and I would like to say that too – a doctor gets € 7 for a visit to the home and if doctors in the country can only survive with house pharmacies they have, that is a problem. If we want people in less populated areas to find a doctor in the future, the prerequisite is that this doctor can survive economically in the country, otherwise we will not make it. And there are the challenges that are particularly up-to-date. And I urge my coalition partner SPÖ to immediately implement these necessary repairs in the law for the house pharmacies of the doctors, otherwise you will abandon the people of the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22856	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22877	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! So what is constantly being dragged into the room by the liberals today is really scandalous, I would like to have said at this point. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Musiol.]] Back to the present matter with the sounding name Administrative Jurisdictions-Adaptation Act. Yes, this law may fall under the category: Whoever says A has to say B, too. The system of administrative jurisdiction has been fundamentally changed towards greater legal certainty and the rule of law, which means that the legislation on materials must also be amended in order not to risk illegality. We need to shape – increasingly a quality feature of laws – our legal bodies in such a way that they become more uniform to make them easier, and this law is also a step in this direction. It is a highly sensitive matter; it is about the prospects for the future of young people. That is why we have also taken considerable time in the Committee to discuss this law in detail with the experts; for a semester is over quickly, and there is a need for due care and, accordingly, we also need to re-adjust the implementation, the practical implementation of the law and, if necessary, where necessary. But I think it's a good law, and I'm glad that there's a broad agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e22924	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 2164 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mrs Greenewald, colleagues and an additional or amendment tabled by Mrs Mag. Cortolezis-Schlager, Mag. Mr Kuntzl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I shall vote on the parts of the series and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted. First of all, we are voting on the amendment tabled by Mrs Greenewald, ladies and gentlemen, which refers to Rule I.Z.4. Whoever joins these changes, I'm looking for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft as it stands. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Cortolezis-Schlager, Mag. Kuntzl, colleagues and others have tabled an additional or amendment to Articles I and II. If you support this, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template, and I ask for your approval. – This is accepted by a majority. If you also support this draft at third reading, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is decided by a majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. [[23:13:21]] 12. Point First reading: Request by Mr Karl Öllinger, Members of Parliament, concerning a Federal Act amending the Law on Rental Law (2185/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23000	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23029	Mr President. I'll try to make it short and explain in the rough what it's all about. If I had more time, I could tell you the statistics of room executions across the federal territory. It would be clear that there are different rules in the field of space executions from the federal state to the federal state as far as the winter months are concerned. There are federal states that try to avoid being executed in the winter months, so people are put on the street. There is a state such as Vienna, which is trying to do so and is also developing far-reaching measures in order to prevent the hardness and unbility that may arise after the appropriate rooming, by working preventively, preventively. All of this we have tried to incorporate in this request to ensure that in winter months it is not cleared and that the communities are obliged to take preventive measures that offer assistance to the tenants concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23061	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23082	Mr President. We have always used ourselves together with the tenants' protection organizations and the workers' chamber for the best possible human and social situation of those concerned, and so it should remain. Of course, the provisions must always be adapted and discussed to the respective changes. Your parliamentary question, Mr Oellinger, is an important document for this debate, and we are in principle in favour of the intentions of your request. I think it is then necessary to discuss and evaluate all the consequences of this, in order to decide on a new version of the paragraphs referred to, 33a and 35, and to make a decision. However, I would also like to say that in order to prevent personal suffering – and with the loss of the apartment, of course, security is also gone, protection away – one must do everything to provide housing security, also rapid and efficient assistance. Special attention should be paid to the creation of rental debt. I think that's one of the most common causes. This, in turn, is a sudden loss of income with all the facets that exist, through illness, through precarious employment conditions. But what you also need to pay attention to is, and this is very important that the relation of income and the monthly housing tax is not at all right. For all these reasons and so that the human right to living is also enforced and that declarations in this country can be prevented by far, of course we will continue to work for the longest rents and for the financial discharge of the tenants. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23120	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23141	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can actually make it very short. I would like to express our pleasure at the fact that our efforts, those of the Austrian People's Party, in the area of housing, have now apparently arrived at the other political groups in recent weeks and months. This is in principle very positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: (with ironic hustle and bustle) He was good!]] In contrast to some others in this House, of course, we take this issue a lot further. For example, we also stand for justice and fairness in the area of community apartments. This is not the case with everyone – including those who submit applications here. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brosz and Mr Neubauer.]] Overall, I believe that the two proposals on § 33a and § 35 are rather unfit to bring clarity into the rental right, but rather raise questions that are not so far available. The question is: Are there civil rights against communities of individuals according to your application? The question is: Is there an intervention in property law with the postponement of the court proceedings? [[Abg. Oils: Then we cut them out in winter!]] These are questions that are emerging. I think we are doing well if we bring clarity into the rental right, there we are. We do well to make renting more readable. It cannot be that in Austria tenants or landlords must employ entire legions of lawyers in order to recognize themselves in the rental law. If that is also your goal, then we are in the boat together, and I believe that we will be able to make this right of rent more readable and comprehensible together if that is your goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23217	Next speaker: Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23238	First of all, Mr Oellinger, you have asked to assign this request to the Committee on Justice. However, rent law would be the case of the Building Committee. That means you are delaying, perhaps inadvertent, the request because it is landing in the wrong committee. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote!]] But there's no blame on you: The Building Committee is just like Christmas, it only meets once a year, and there is no idea that these matters of the rental law belong to the Building Committee. It is interesting if Mr Schönegger says that the ÖVP has an election topic here. I also do not know any of the ÖVP's requests in the Building Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Nice to meet you.]] Although the government parties have discovered the subject as an election topic, I do not see any well-founded requests in Parliament yet. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Oellinger, if, for example, I look at the minimum security which affects the poorest of the poor, then this means that we have around 200 € per month – if necessary, countries can increase this amount – for housing. That is, if you transfer 200 € to your landlord in the month, then this becomes very difficult with the delogging, especially if you still increase the amount if the living space is appropriate. The following is: A delogging takes time when you look at it, between nine months and one and a half years. One is not logged from today to tomorrow, but this is a very long period of time that gives the tenant the opportunity to look around a cheaper object. Such a delogging takes really long. I see another problem. That's what I see in my home village of Mödling. About 10 percent of the apartments are empty. If you ask the owners why they prefer to leave the apartment empty than to rent it, then the answer comes: I'm afraid I'll get a tenant who won't pay the rent. I then don't have the apartment free for a year and a half, and I may even have to bear the cost of a devastation, because most of the time the people who owe the rent don't use the apartment properly, but unfortunately these as rental nomads also devastate or take along parts of it. In other words, the landlord has not only no rental income, but also has to renovate the apartment expensively. I believe, Mr Oellinger, that your request is certainly well meant, but sometimes it is well meant the opposite of good. While with this request you would also protect the few rental nomads even better, the many ordinary tenants would have to pay this at higher rental prices. The increase in rents for the protection of rental nomads certainly does not agree with us liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23297	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23319	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! In view of the fact that we today have 1.4 million people who are affected by poverty and when we look at the fact that 4 600 forced declarations take place every year in the city of Innsbruck alone, it is, I believe, already legitimate that we discuss this issue. The fact that no forced declarations were to be made between October and March is of course a matter of course. On the other hand, it is also mandatory for the communities to be informed of this early enough, because the communities must help to ensure that no homelessness arises, that families at risk of poverty are helped. And it's not that simple. In Tyrol, for example, it is foolishly difficult to find a durable living space if we speak on average of 10 € per square meter. You have to help these people. That must be discussed. I think it's already a question of culture that you don't put anyone on the road in winter.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23349	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23381	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Man is at the heart of our actions. I think that is where we all agree, cross-party. It is also a shame that in a rich country like Austria, people are still affected by poverty. My previous speaker just made it. Not only are single-time workers at risk of poverty, but now pensioners, young people, part-time and even full-time workers can no longer adequately finance their livelihood. There is a need for policy. Measures must be taken. We are not discussing this here and today for the first time, but for the first time. This Green request addresses a problem that is great that needs to be dealt with. In my opinion, however, this request is not the fight against the cause but rather the treatment of the problem. And we should actually fight the cause and see that there is no forced communication, especially in the winter months. There are still unexplained questions that have not been explained. The financing has not been mentioned here either. However, Mr Oellinger said in his introduction that he had too little time to do so, that the time would probably be available in the Committee to explain the matter more closely. We have also made the following proposal: For example, the tenants of municipal apartments should have the right to buy this municipal apartment by means of a more favourable credit, because many also have the desire for an egg. genheim. And with attractive conditions, people could be helped to buy a cheap community apartment, even if they have less money. There is a great need for action. This rental law needs to be simplified, simply made more readable. That has already been mentioned. We are happy to be available here and with advice and deed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23423	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. I accept Amendment 2185/A to the Building Committee. [[23:25:37]] 13. Point First reading: Request by Members Karl Oellinger, colleagues on a federal law amending the Gas Economic Act 2011 (2186/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23462	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23487	Mr President. It is a very similar subject. This time the Gas Economic Act is to regulate that at certain times, i.e. in the period between 31. ==References== March of the following year, network shutdowns should not be possible in the case of gas. The background is a very concrete one. There are actually cases in the urban area, at least also documented where people can no longer afford gas management – and the next request concerns the electricity – in which the gas is switched off, which may then give themselves the appropriate heat with candles or otherwise work with candles and similar dangerous substances to set or burn. And there were dead people. You don't believe it. People are burned because they had no access to gas or electricity and were afraid or ashamed to make this issue public at all. Therefore, one of the measures we propose, but now, regardless of this existential threat, very many other people are concerned that within these winter months the gas should not be removed.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23517	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23538	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in the matter itself we probably agree that it would make a lot of sense to take care of the people who are threatened by such shutdowns accordingly. The question will be: Are we scratching at the surface by seeing that we are precisely preventing the shutdown or are we trying to go beyond the causes as well? [[Abg. Oillingers: We have heard this many times today!]] Yes, but we have a concrete chance, Karl, that we address the problem, because unlike others where we say a lot of Blabla, we have the opportunity to do so in conjunction with the Energy Efficiency Act. This is already in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. This is still a construction site where we will have a lot of discussions, but a few points in the Energy Efficiency Act relate to exactly what you have been talking about. We have proposed the Energy Efficiency Act that energy suppliers should set up a contact point for energy efficiency and energy poverty from a certain size of the company, where cooperation with social assistance organisations is also explicitly addressed. We have good examples of the ombudsman of Vienna's energy, which has already been created in this context, where there is also social workers' access to the treatment of these problems. We have read in the Energy Efficiency Bill that the budgets affected by energy poverty need special attention in terms of energy suppliers' commitments. And we stand there that those households in the warning procedure will be referred automatically to the ombudsman of the energy suppliers in the future and will be included. Obviously, you can do this much better than what's inside. But I mean, this is a concrete approach where it would be worthwhile to talk about it. And if, under the Energy Efficiency Act, we can clarify, develop better, expand better, then, I believe, we will also do what you requested in your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23578	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23599	Mr President. High house! I agree with the words of my previous speaker. Your commitment, Mr. Oellinger, is a wonderful one. It is good to talk about it, whereby we believe that there are already some things that fulfill the purpose: in the event of delay in payment several times, and so on. So there is already regularity here, that people cannot – literally – turn off the gas and the energy. And the big question will also be – you have to talk about it in the Committee – whether we do not get a little bit into a data protection problem with the obligation to pass on information to the public. All in all: We will talk about this in the committee. – I wish you a nice evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23630	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23651	Mr President. Mr Hörl says we will talk about it in committee. – This is all beautiful and good, but because it was spoken of as a reminder, especially in Tyrol the TIGAS – the TIGAS is a daughter of TIWAG; the TIWAG is not in Tyrolean possession, but belongs to the American financial shark – comes here and turns off the gas immediately. This winter there were several families with children sitting in Tyrol at minus 15 degrees without gas in the apartment. I think we have to act there, as we have to develop new concepts, how to prevent such poverty cases; but here we have to say that everything is so good that there are reminders in Tyrol, which is totally wrong, that is the wrong way. This should not be discussed so lapidar, because a decommissioning of the gas in winter is simply inhuman and inconceivable.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23683	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23705	Mr President. High house! Mr Oellinger's approach to the requests for agenda items 13 and 14 is quite understandable at first glance, but the social component is also crucial. Of course, it is necessary to support people who are really in need of help. It can't be that people in Austria, even with me in Salzburg, freeze in the winter months, suddenly turn off gas and electricity and land people on the street as we have heard. However, environmental protection must not be too short. Finally, we need to move away from fossil fuels to renewable energies in order to ensure sustainable energy supply. Last winter it showed: We are still dependent on the gas and oil suppliers. This cycle is finally broken, so that Austria really becomes energy self-sufficient. But there's another way, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, and the next cold winter is sure to come.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23732	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23753	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would rather, we would discuss a renewable energy law here, and not a gas economy law, but fact is, we need security of supply in Austria. The fact is that we also need to force renewable energy sources in Austria massively because we also have the 15-fold added value if we use domestic potentials in the regions, i.e. what comes in at the window every day – whether sun, wind, biomass or whatever – accordingly. We must also give people the choice of what they want to use in appropriate energy forms. In this sense everyone has his own responsibility, one cannot regulate everything with regulations and re-octroyations. I wish Austria would become an energy-autarchy country, where we create as much work as possible with domestic potentials, create incomes and also make a significant contribution to the halt of climate change, to CO2-neutral energy production in Austria. I cordially invite you all to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23781	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 2186/A to the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs. [[23:34:50]] 14. Point First reading: Request by Members Karl Öllinger, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act 2010 (2187/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23825	We get to the 14th. Agenda item. The applicant shall speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23849	Mr President. I can actually make it even shorter, because the problem I described in the previous request now refers to the electricity. But allow me another supplement, even to the one said before. I very much agree with that if there are some improvements in the energy efficiency law that affect energy poverty. But let's wait for the energy efficiency law to come. - That's point one. Point two: The measures mentioned by Mr Katzian, by you, do not prevent them from happening in concrete terms. They can be preventive, and that's good, but they don't prevent them yet. The problem is that we already have the situation or we know exactly that different countries and different suppliers are being dealt with differently. One caregiver, in particular political influence or not, strives, and the other is relatively wrested. But the people who are affected have nothing of that. This applies in the case of gas as well as in the case of electricity. That is why, I think, this request is also justified, but then we are discussing it in the committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23883	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23904	Mr President. Mr Katzian has already pointed out that the fundamental claim that there is a need for action exists, of course forcing it to do something. I just think that the approach that Wolfgang Katzian has taken to sketch is a better one than just saying, I'm spending a few months. [[Abg. Oils: One doesn't rule out the other!]] The result of this is that we have to fight beyond energy poverty, that, of course, the demands go up immediately with reminder fees, that people are in an even worse economic situation in the consequence, and that cooperation with social work – perhaps also the direct settlement of the energy bills that could subsequently be organized – is probably the more sustainable way. Let's be glad that we don't have states like in Spain, where there are thousands of declarations in top weeks, I think, even in five digits! Now the emergency has been stopped. We also have this problem, we must not close our eyes, but: We are looking for a solution that helps people permanently! A second point that plays a role is: Especially in energy poverty, we often have heating systems, but also consumer systems and also the thermal situation that people are not only confronted with non-payable energy calculations, but also are very high because the type of heating system or insulation is inefficient. My appeal – and there I look at the coalition partner – is: We have made everything in the field of thermal rehabilitation very strong or exclusively with grant models. Let us think about it – once again my appeal, I have been trying for years, just like the changeover to natural gas in Vienna 30 years ago –, no matter how much wealth or income it has to give it the opportunity to change, namely through a public-owned loan without interest with which it has two years of repayment, but already by reducing energy expenditure already the total repayment. So again my appeal to work that out. Maybe you can do this in a cast. And once again my invitation to come to solutions that do not stick to the surface but try to find a permanent solution in conjunction with social assistance. The actual power, I simply can't turn off the electricity and I'm not allowed to log out – I think the problem has been identified before – of course, leads to an intensification of people who might be eligible for payment, who could also organise it in consultation, but who say from the specific situation, you can't delog me anyway, you can't turn off the electricity anyway, but you can get yourself into a situation where next year there's really an insoluble situation. My invitation is once again to follow Wolfgang Katzian's proposals and to find a sensible solution, in line with social work and the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23947	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e23968	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that a ban on shutdown is a very short-term solution, Mr Oellinger. We need to focus more intensively on this issue, namely at an age when we are really dealing with energy, resources and raw materials very carelessly. That is, it is about how we create a system where care is given, where people learn to deal consciously with energy, resources and raw materials. [[Abg. Oils: These are not the people! That's absurd!]] This is not included. It is a short-term measure, to say, of 31. ==References== We're going to make a ban on shut-off on March. In reality, you would promote precisely this carelessness in dealing with energy and resources. We need to think about how we can achieve a corresponding balance for social weak people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This, as I believe, can only happen with a comprehensive tax reform. Mrs Lichtenecker has already mentioned this, and I am pleased that you have repeatedly mentioned our programme, namely to make an eco-social tax reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24015	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24036	Mr President. Appreciate High House! It is already amazing to hear colleagues Grillitsch and Matznetter talking here. Now we are sitting in here for five years – and in these five years the number of poor in Austria has doubled. – That is the result of your work, that is the result of this federal government! If one hears a Mr Grillitsch here, he says, yes, of course we have to shut down, delog in the winter months, and at the same time he wants to ensure social compensation, then one must reply: Incredible, Mr Grillitsch, And that's what I've got to tell you: In recent years, you have to answer that poverty has increased so much. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They have put billions of money into the banks by the coalition parties, you have sent billions of euros to Greece, you have sent billions of euros to Cyprus, but what the Austrian population is about to do is not even be prepared to talk about the fact that, in the winter months at least, the most in need of people is being removed from energy decommissioning. That's the wrong way!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24081	Since no one has made any mention of this, I will close the debate. I agree with the motion for a resolution 2187/A to the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs. [[23:42:24]] 15. Point First reading: Request by Members Karl Öllinger, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act (ASVG) (2188/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24121	We're coming to 15. Agenda item. First speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24145	Mr President. Although this request is about a different but no less problematic situation, it is a situation that can arise by the fact that people who should be socially insured or who have been pre-accumulated by their company will later learn that they were not actually socially insured. The reason is simply that social security persons are not directly addressed and perceived by the insurance company. You can't really believe this, because in every private insurance company you conclude a contract – and whether I know about a private insurance company: I am the addressee if the insurance wants to make a change, I have to agree or reject, even if I may not know myself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] On the other hand, in the case of social security, the problem is that the person concerned is not perceived as a contractual partner, but is the company of the contractual partners, where the company acts for the person concerned, as it were, and should also comply with due diligence obligations, to which it is obliged, but which sometimes – this happens – does not occur. What I am trying to explain here is more detailed in the request, but it is essentially a matter of trying, precisely about these social security measures that we propose, that the insured person himself be perceived as a subject, as a contractual partner, who must be informed of changes – of the receipt of the insurance or of the cancellation of the insurance.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24202	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24224	Karl Ollinger, you just got it to the point: On the one hand, your request is that the information requirement of health insurance providers should be extended to a large extent. To extend that in the future, any change – whether it be the beginning or the end of a service relationship – should always be passed on to the insured during an illness and so on. There is nothing bad in itself if I say that we are expanding the flow of information for the insured, but I would also like to say: This is largely in line with the current legal situation. Mr Oellinger, you know how it works in practice: If I am re-registered, according to ASVG the service provider receives two copies that I am logged in or that a subscription has been made. The service provider is in fact obliged to pass it on to the insured. [[Abg. Amon: But if he doesn't?- Oh, my God!]] As an employee, as an employee, it is a little self-reliance, because if I do not know myself as an insurer, I am not sure whether I am registered or not, then I can call my health insurance provider at any time and get all information unbureaucratic. You can even request this in writing or just go and then get the corresponding information there orally. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amon.]] Furthermore, there is the possibility at any time to request an insurance data extract where all insurance periods are above; this is also sent on request. And as an insured person, you have so many possibilities to access this beyond on the Internet. That is, such a general commitment – as I just understood the request –: Information to all about everything that leads me a little too far, because this would lead to an enormous amount of understanding of health insurance companies to the insured, so that the administrative costs would be accelerated in millions. That's just a number so we know what we're talking about: In the Steermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse alone, 850 000 notifications are made per calendar year. What would do if I said now: Porto-costs in addition, Kuvert-costs and letter paper, that would, in my opinion, simply not be reasonable. Information on an e-mail basis, as requested in the application, I think that for data protection reasons alone I am concerned. But we can discuss this in detail at one of the next committee meetings.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24270	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24292	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, this proposal sounds really good at first: Information for everyone at any time. But it becomes very exciting when you go into the depths and look at this subject a little more closely. In principle, information is already very much regulated. The question is whether any change that is made needs to be communicated in writing. We know that throughout the federal territory it is really about millions of changes alone during a year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Spindelberger just said: For reasons of data protection or security reasons, it is not okay to send this data by e-mail. This should and must be done by post. When it comes to millions of changes, it is also about millions of cost factors in a year. Yes, that's going to be exciting in detail. I am looking forward to the discussion in the Committee, and we will have the opportunity to exchange our arguments there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24334	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24355	Mr President. High house! A supplement to the existing information requirement does not appear to be absolutely necessary for us at present, because, in principle, the worker also has the obligation to inform himself about his insurance. It is currently true that, as we have already heard, information can be requested about the insurance numbers and the birth data in the relevant social security scheme. In addition, everyone should know for himself whether and how long they are in an employment relationship. The person concerned may now ask for information or information on post-insurance benefits from social security. And as I said, It is already reasonable for the insured to inform himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24389	There is no more word message for this. I close the debate and grant Amendment 2188/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[23:50:07]] 16. Point First reading: Request by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act – B-VG, BGBl. No. 1/1930, modified (2208/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24428	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. First, Mr Mag. Mag. Stefan speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24452	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ is about ensuring the basic supply of the population, in particular water supply. We know that this has become a subject in recent months, because the European Commission has launched a reform package on public procurement, which included service concessions, i.e. water supply and the award of water. That is why we have put forward a very concrete request for debate in order to ensure water supply in the Constitution. An § 17a is proposed, which provides that water supply can only be granted to the federal government, the states and local authorities and cannot be sold out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The countries have already taken such decisions. A corresponding decision has also been taken in the Federal Council of the EU Committee. I therefore assume that there is a broad consensus. The fact that this issue is quite up-to-date shows that, for example, the municipality of Vienna has already leased some of the sources it has in the long term. There is a shop made with the Vienna water, although the municipality simultaneously posters that it secures the water and the basic supply. In order not to make it possible to raise desires here, it would really be important to put in place appropriate measures. I have to say here that there have already been clear principles as regards awarding. In fact, it would not have been necessary for the European Commission to implement directives, because there have already been very clear principles. Therefore, it is suspicious somewhere if water supply is now suddenly included. In order to have a clear political position here, the appropriate application is important. As I have said, there is a broad consensus, and I am looking forward to the corresponding words.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24501	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24522	Mr President. High house! The request must be made to say that there is in principle a right to anchor such basic services in the Constitution. Whether the application itself in this form is already the yellow of the egg, I am not sure, but in principle it goes in the right direction. I therefore believe that we can continue to work in this direction, and our group will certainly be able to support it in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24549	Next speaker: Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24571	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers mentioned it: Drinking water is a basis for people's lives, it's about public health. Of course, we have to warn against panic, so to speak, and say that this is about the minimum standards. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What does that mean?]] We will certainly look at this in the Committee and discuss the request. Of course, the basic position of all political groups is clear: Water is one of the goods of general care and therefore it must be ensured. The EU Directive deals with the transparent tendering criteria. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly have an exciting discussion in the Committee, as we also have a mixed situation in Austria. The fundamental trend in the application can be overcome by a lot, and of course we need to discuss it even more closely in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24606	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24628	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Water is an existential asset. I think we all agree that we have built up a good water supply in Austria. It is also clear, I believe, that the sustainable management of a scarce good is best ensured by the public, rather than by profit-oriented corporations. There is now this directive of the European Commission as regards the award of concessions, which may be pressured to privatise water supply on communities in financial difficulties. I think we all know the financial situation of the communities. We can get into this situation, so I believe it is our responsibility to do everything possible here to protect our water supply as best we can. That is why this protection must also be enshrined in the Constitution. We have already tabled similar proposals, which unfortunately have not been approved so far. What I expect from the government parties is not only support but also a separate proposal. That was also a decision of this House: a joint request from the government parties, which is also supported by us. We are actually waiting for you to become an initiative now. What I expect from all the other parties here in the house is that they are not only acting here in Austria, but also where the decisions actually fall, namely at European level. We are doing this, we are working very closely here, from the community level to the European level. I believe that if you are serious, then not only do you collect signatures somewhere, as the ÖVP does, but at all levels do what is to be done. This is in our case to establish constitutional protection and to take all possible initiatives at EU level. By the way, I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24665	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24697	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Don't touch our water! I believe that we should all form an alliance against Europe together, because the example we already have in Tyrol, where the entire water, all hydroelectric power plants with the right of water access have been sold to the Americans by the Tyrolean state government – represented by the ÖVP – has already been implemented. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You of the ÖVP should listen to the truth with interest. Your colleague, member of the European Parliament Dr Seeber, has still been on the website of the ÖVP Tirol in January that this regulation is good for the EU because it guarantees Austrian companies that they can ensure water supply abroad. [[Abg. Amon: Good man!]] [[Abg. Amon: But that's not true on the homepage!]] Is it now our task for our companies to ensure water supply abroad? – I don't think it can be. [[Abg. Amon: He didn't say that! I want a quote!]] The danger is much, much greater, that communities with financial problems under pressure will be tempted to abandon their water supply to any group. We know what that means. Look at Berlin, look at London, there we see it! As long as there are Tyrolean members of the ÖVP who demand it, we will do everything we can so that it doesn't get that far!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24766	I close the debate and grant the request 2208/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[23:58:45]] 17. Point Re-election of committees
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24796	We're coming to the 17th. Agenda item: Re-election of committees according to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with this provision, new elections of existing committees shall be carried out as soon as changes in the force ratio of the clubs are required by the President. The Committees set up to date with 26 members are affected by changes. The National Council now has to set the number of members and substitute members. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them. A re-election of the main committee does not take place, as it applies § 30 of the Rules of Procedure. After consulting the members of the Presidential Conference, a committee size of 25 members and replacement members is now proposed by common agreement for the existing committees with 26 members and replacement members, each of whom is calculated according to the d’Hondt system: 8 members and replacement members at SPÖ and ÖVP, 5 members and replacement members each to the FPÖ, 3 members and replacement members to the Greens, 1 member and 1 replacement member to the BZÖ. I shall now vote on the amendment of the Committee size from 26 to 25 members and alternate members. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The names of the clubs according to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure announced as members or alternate members and thus as elected Members are to be included in the list of committees. [[The members and substitute members as well as the elected functions are available on the Internet under the heading ‘Parliament Activ’.]] The agenda is exhausted. [[00:00:24]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24862	I have a written request from 20 Members to take account of the proposed version of the official minutes of this meeting. In order to ensure that this part is deemed approved at the end of the meeting, the agenda item 17 should be re-elected. I shall now read the corresponding part of the Official Protocol: ‘TO point 17: Re-election of committees As a result of the changes in the force ratio of the clubs, a new composition of the committees with 26 members results. The Committee size of the committees concerned by the amendment shall be fixed unanimously with 25 members and replacement members. The SPÖ and ÖVP now account for 8, each 5, for the Greens, 3 members and replacement members, as well as for BZÖ 1 member and replacement member. There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on Agenda item 17 (Annex XVII/1).’ Are there any objections to the version or content of this part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The corresponding part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[00:01:37]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00199_d7e24917	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 2257/A(E) to 2267/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Question No 14499/J to 14555/J has also been received. Finally, Mr Markowitz and Mr Ing. Lugar – 95/JPR and 96/JPR respectively – was transferred to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Friday, 26. April 2013, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. Following this meeting, the Committees concerned by the re-election will be set up here in the National Council meeting room. Since these are non-public meetings, I am looking for visitors as well as media representatives and media representatives to leave the hall and to stay in the hall for the committee members or their representatives. [[Rejoicing]] This meeting is closed.
