ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e1063	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 218. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Prammer, Hörl, Linder, Themessl, Dr. Winter, Singer, Mag. Jarmer, Dr. Lichtenecker, Mag. Widmann, Ing. Gartlehner, Ing. Chapel and pussy. [[08:04:58]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e1094	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[08:00:00]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e1170	The Parliamentary Club Team Stronach has according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question 15955/J tabled at the beginning of the sitting by Mrs Ing. Lugar, colleague and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture regarding “Politics out of School – Not enough for Red Black” to be dealt with urgently. [[08:05:21]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e1193	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that Mr Scheibner has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the request 2177/A concerning the democratic package be sent to the Constitutional Committee for a period of 24 years. ==References== There is also a desire by five Members to hold a brief debate on this request for a deadline. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. I would also like to say that Mr Bucher has requested that the Committee on Education report on the request 2376/A from Members of the Booker, colleague and colleagues on Service Law Novelle 2013 - Educational Service be extended until 24. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. I would also like to say that Mrs Magistrate. Musiol has requested the Constitutional Committee to report to it on the application 2177/A concerning the democratic package a period of time until 24. ==References== [[Call the SPÖ: It's not there! Where is she?]] The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 11 a.m. The meeting will be held on ORF 2 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and on ORF III in full length. I'll interrupt the meeting by 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e1228	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start the interrupted session again. [[11:01:38]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Ing. Robert Lugar, colleague and colleague at the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture on “Politics out of School – Not enough for Red Black” (15955/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e1264	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 15955/J. As it has now reached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e1681	I give to Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar is the first questioner to justify the request, according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e1702	Mr President. Minister! High house! My very dear television viewers! So I don't know how you are, but I'm still unscrupulous. [[Call the SPÖ: Better than you!]] I'm still unscrupulous. [[Abg. New builder:... Spindelegger! Inflamed!]] You always hear from the USA such things that people are killed cold-blooded – just recently there was another case where one shot around – but for Austrian conditions it's something new – and I'm still out of control. Especially when such crimes happen, where no one can explain, why and why, many questions remain open. And we should ask ourselves these questions. One question is, for example: How could it be that someone can shoot a police officer through a shot-proof vest and apparently doesn't offer that vest the protection they should offer? There is the question of whether we should not equip our executives with the West, who also deserve this name. The second question I have to ask is: How can it be that someone – I mean, I can understand that you are not too interested in this today, but I would really ask you to listen a little bit, because I think that all of us deserved to talk about what happened before we now respond to the urgent request. [[Unrest in the hall.]] If you look at the Tathergang, you can see that a man deliberately shoots a policeman, then endures for 50 minutes in the bush and waits for the medicamenter to come up – a 70-year-old medicament who exercises this profession out of passion, who wants nothing but to rush to the help of this policeman. This man waits 50 minutes in the bush, and before he can get out of the car, he kills him with a targeted shot in his head. The question I'm asking here is: How is that possible? How is it possible for our society to produce such creatures? How is it possible for our society to produce people who have no respect for life at all, who kill cold-blooded other people, and even wait 50 minutes for a medicament that is only for help, to be able to kill him as well? – These are the central questions. And that's where the question arises: What did we do wrong? [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Call: Education! Education]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] The question is: What did we do wrong? We cannot solve this question here today, but I believe that we should discuss something here today, namely a place where we lay the foundation for sense of responsibility, for co-humanity, for all these things, and this place is called school. That is why we have arrived on this issue today to discuss it as well: What can the school do to prevent people in this world from having no respect for life and killing others in such a cruel way? With all compassion for the victims and, of course, for the families and the children – there are seven children who have become half orphans – we have to think about what we can do better and how we can prevent this in the future. That is why we are now on the subject of education; I have deliberately transferred it here, because I consider it very important. I believe that we can lay the foundation stone in school, the foundation stone for whether a person is a valuable member of society or not. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If you look at countries like France and see what's going on wrong there, or other countries where it's going better, you can see that you can influence a lot as a society. One cannot completely rule out that there are crazy people who commit such acts, but we can lay the foundation stone. And here we are on the subject now, and there is the question: Are we doing everything we can to lay a good foundation? It is not only a question of teaching children co-humanity, a sense of responsibility, a willingness to help, respect for life, but also of giving children proper education in order to give them the opportunity to integrate themselves accordingly in society and to play a valuable role in society. I think that's very, very important. Today we are talking about teacher service law, and I am now coming to this issue because it is on the agenda; I just wanted to introduce a little here because of this shock, which is still so deep in me, and also ask the question what we can do better. There are a lot of things we can do better in school, but we don't. And I wonder why. Why don't we do anything? We have the problem that we have known for 26 years that there is a lot in the school area – for 26 years! At that time, a SPÖ minister said that something has to happen and that above all – and this is very important – the political influence has to come out of school. I also think that's the main problem. I can't explain it to myself otherwise. Or can someone here explain to me how it is possible for us to cut off even worse every year as far as the educational goals are concerned, that we produce 16 000 compulsory school leavers every year – and production is increasing ever further – who are unable to read and write properly and thus have a huge problem on the labour market. And we finally find the problems in the middle of society. In the last five years alone, Mrs Minister, and I have to accuse you of this, we have produced 80 000 people who are practically unusable on the labour market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] That is to say, we have produced 80 000 people who have no chance of finding a job because in nine years you will not be able to teach them a proper education. [[Call to the ÖVP: What is this division?]] If you look at other countries and see that it works there, you have to ask yourself why it doesn't work for us. Maybe we have too little money? It could be. Maybe we're spending too little money? Let's take a look at your 2012 educational report. It's inside, we're spending most of our money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] You're even excited about this fact. They say we spend so much money anyway. – Yes, that’s right, we spend a lot of money, but the money doesn’t come where we need it. It only arrives every second euro in the class. Most of it goes for administration on it and for all the things you get alive, but we don't need it anymore. We don't need this political proporzstadel anymore. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We don't need a school that's run by politics either. What we need are educational goals – that is not a question – and there must be values again. That means we have to tell schools what we want, what is being taught. I've been talking about the values we've lost before. This is all important, as politics must, of course, be taken into account. But in school, politics has lost nothing. In school, politics has simply lost nothing, and you have to understand that, Mrs. Minister. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Party policy! Party policy!]] Politics has to get out of school! We don't need a system in which politics determines the directors. For what? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Oils: Don't always ask the same!]] [[Call:Political education]] Can anyone explain to me why head of state Pröll in Lower Austria must influence the directors in Lower Austria? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Why? Where's the background? Who's the use of this? Or why do the political parties have to be represented in the National School Council in Proporz? Why does that have to be like that? Why do all the parties in the Council of State Schools have to be represented in accordance with their election outcome? – To use their own teachers there and to push through their directors? [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] And when you look closely at it: What's that supposed to do? What if a school does not do what it is supposed to bring forth, that is to say, educated people, and on the other hand, does politics supply its fellow workers there and thus the system gets even worse? I have already suggested here that we finally talk about whether politics needs to interfere at all in school. Does that have to be at all? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Let's talk about it! Let's talk about it: Firstly, what does politics do in school at all, and secondly, how can we ban politics from school? And the third thing we should talk about is: Why don't we make the director the manager? [[Call:Frank! Franc]] The director is the manager of the school, appoints his teachers himself, can also cancel them again if they do not do what is required, and is controlled only from the outside, namely achieving the educational goals. That would be a good approach, by the way, in the economy everywhere. In the economy there is a manager, there are goals and there is an output. [[Abg. Oil: Frank!]] In other words, the manager is responsible for producing an output together with his employees. Now imagine a company that produces 25 percent of the goods it produces as a committee! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] That means 25 percent of what comes out can't be used. [[Call ÖVP and Greens:Hello! That's incredible!]] Imagine that! I know – look, we just have to talk to things! – that you don't like to hear that. With your political influence, you have created a situation in which we spend a wealth and not bring out what we need, that is, educated people who have a chance on the labour market. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's the point, and you don't want to hear that, and you don't seem to understand that either. I know why: because of you, of course. They want to provide for their policy-makers in these institutions. That's the background. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier.]] It's not about people. By the way, I know why most of the people here send their children to private schools because you know for yourself that it's a lottery game. [[He-Rufe at SPÖ]] It is a lottery game in Austria when you send your children to public school. If you're lucky, you have good teachers, and it's something out of your child; if you're bad, you don't have good teachers for your own child and can't do anything about it, absolutely nothing. All education experts confirm this. Look at this! Try to put yourself in the class to your child to see what is being done there! - You won't be allowed to do that. That means that the system does not even create transparency. We have a situation in which we have so-called problem teachers in Austria – and I do not say that, says the trade union, so say the parents and the woman minister. We have teachers who are obviously not suitable to teach our children something. [[Abg. Amon: We have problem delegates!]] These problem teachers can continue to teach our children, and it is always said that it is inhumane to open up a new perspective for them. [[Abg. Ing. Schools: approved?]] Imagine, you have an important surgery and a surgeon can't see blood! He falls out of power three times during the operation. Would you let him operate, would you? He's obviously unfit for this profession. You wouldn't have a problem if you sent him home and said, Think of something else! That would be a good thing. Not at school! In school we have teachers who get drunk in class. Do you know how many of these teachers have ever been canceled in the last ten years? - Not one! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Now you don't misunderstand me: Most of our 120,000 teachers are doing a great job, and that is where politics is still ruling and where it always falls in their backs, especially with regard to discipline in class and so on. So don't misunderstand me, it's not about talking the teachers in any way – quite the contrary, they do great things! [[Mr Wöginger and Mr Belakovich-Jenewein.]] However, there is a very small proportion of teachers who are unsuitable, and we also need to talk about it – but you don't want to. [[Call the BZÖ:Yes, let's talk!]] [[Abg. Wenninger: the best example! That's totally inappropriate!]] You do not want to talk about it, and what you do not want, above all, is the following – something that is particularly worrying –: We have been waiting for a new teacher's right for 12 years now. I know that the new teacher's right does not make everything better either, is also a bit unforgivable in many areas, a maximum of a first step in the right direction. But one could afford this teacher's right – not much, but one could do it – and it could prove that one can also rule against the trade union in that country. We could provide this proof with this teacher's right. And that's exactly what we're talking about today. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] It is our concern today to give you the opportunity to prove that something can also be done against the trade union in this Republic, because the trade union is in reality the shadow government, which in many areas hinders all that we need in this country. That is why we have made this special meeting today. We want to help you from the government. If you look at the last five years, you have no big or good balance. They didn't do anything else, it didn't happen in these five years. Now, five years ago, you promised us a teacher's right – by the way, it's been a long time, but we're just talking about this period – and then you and the Federal Chancellor said that this is before the election. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, thank God we only talk about the period!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ:There is one!]] Then SPÖ and ÖVP have developed a joint design and sent it in review. In my view, the only one who would have to review this would be the union, and it has already rejected it, that is: Review completed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Here we could see if it's true what you're saying, namely: We also decide against the trade union, because it is a first step in the right direction. The question is now – and we are today proposing that you do so before the election – whether this government is still capable of action. This is the central question: Is this government capable of action? The second question is whether it is also capable of action against the trade union, because that is the problem we have. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Rosenkranz and Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] The problem in this country is that it is not the government that governs, but the trade union, the alliances, the chambers, the heads of state – they all rule in this country, and that must be pointed out once. [[Call:functionaries]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Just not the gold!]] And if we don't make it together – together! – to act against all those who are actually ruling in this country and to implement what is really necessary and important, then it will not be better after the election. [[Intervocations at SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ]] That's exactly the point: We are also standing here today to give citizens the opportunity to take a picture – a picture of how it will most likely continue after the election. [[Abg. Krainer: Have you ever paid wages?]] [[Abg. Krainer: Except for the functionals?]] We know that this government has not done anything before the election. We know that. We just need to look at the government programme, then we see what has been done and what is left. [[Calls: Functionaries! Funktio-near]] That's what we see, that's all we need to do: We look at the government program, and then we see what has been done and what is left. The central question we need to clarify today is: Is it better after the election if these two go back together, what they already threatened us? There is a statement from the Federal Chancellor who threatened us. After the election they want to go back to this great coalition, red and black, and that is why people today have to make the decision whether it should get better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] How should it be better after the election if the promoters are the same, how should it go, and even if in the background the trade unions and all the others pull their threads? That is why it is so important that we are here today to emancipate from all these whisperers. We need to emancipate, we have to prove to the people out there that politics is still operational. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That's the point, that's what it's all about, and that's the sense of the exercise we're doing here. And teacher service law is a side-by-side exhibition, which is also important, a first step, of course, but there still have to be a lot of steps! Only we can't take these steps if you move this teacher service right now to the time after the election. If you are unable to implement this sensible teaching right against the union before the election, how should this work after the election? After the election it is even more difficult, because then the citizen has no influence at all. The citizen has nothing to say all year round. Have you ever noticed that? [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Stronach has something to say anyway!]] The citizen has nothing to say for five years. You're not interested in what the citizen wants either. In the end, it is only about satisfying your own clients, the chambers, the alliances, the trade unions, the own party, the heads of state – this is what the citizen has nothing to say. There is only one day every five years – a single day every five years! – on which the citizen really has something to say, and this day comes on 29. September. [[Abg. Oillinger: has nothing to say at all! That's the problem!]] We are concerned that the citizen does not miss out on this day, it is about the citizen getting up and saying: Dear friends of politics, that's not how it goes! Either you think about how we are really bringing this country forward, or we'll pick you up! That's the point. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That's exactly what I want to say here: The citizen has this power. I know that many out there feel powerless, but the citizen has power, but he only has them once, once in five years. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You are proof that the citizen has no power! Not chosen! Bought by Mr. Stronach!]] And the citizen has to make himself clear about this, use this power and not choose the same parties again! If the same thing comes back, how is something going to change in this country? How can we solve the problems of this country when citizens always choose the same thing? [[Abg. Grosz: Frank!]] In other words, there is one day, the citizen has the power, and something should lead every citizen to another. [[The speaker presents a tablet entitled “The Law Goes From the People! Art. 1 B-VG’ in front of the speaker’s desk]] That's in the Constitution! [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls.]] This is in the Constitution, and the citizens must comply with this 29. September again reminds us that the people have the power and the people can decide! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] And that's why we need new majorities away from red and black! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e2247	To answer the question, Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Schmied has now referred to the debate. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e2278	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, and I am now very differentiated, I would like to express a compliment on the written preparation of the urgent request. [[Abg. Kickl: But there too!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] With regard to your oral remarks, Mr Lugar, I should like to refer to two points directly: Not for everything that happens in the world, we should always be responsible for the school! This is very, very important to me. [[It was in favour of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] And the second point – and this is also very important to me, because everything we do always comes to our inner place of action, to our attitudes, to our attitudes, to our human image – is that I find it very annoying when in connection with school, with students the words: We produce people!, be used. [[It was in favour of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Before I refer to the individual questions addressed to me in writing, just a few introductory words, where we – we have been working here in Parliament for years now – are very quick to agree on what I mean: We need an offensive education policy in Austria, which is central to our country! And we also – and I hope that we all agree – assume that all children, and I stress here all the children living in our country, will determine the skills of our country in 10, 15, 20 years, and therefore we bear the responsibility to contribute to the success of life with a first-class public education system. This is for Austria, which is socially crucial, democratic and economic for us. That's why we're acting. And I would point out to you that there would have been no action in recent years, back to the sharpest, Mr Deputies. We have done a lot, 62 government projects have been brought in and decided by me, together with the government partner. I'm allowed to bring you a quote: “They find in Europe few countries in which in a few years they have changed as much as in Austria” – with regard to education policy. That's what Andreas Schleicher of the OECD says. Many measures have been put in place, but education policy also has the effect that the measures will also work in the medium and long term, and therefore we will not be able to deduce and read many of our actions until later PISA results. We have done a lot, but I also say at the same time, Mr Lugar, that we still have a lot of work ahead of us. But now on your individual questions. I may always be able to address the issues briefly, because not all listeners and listeners now have the questions. In your first question, refer to the 2012 National Education Report, highlight in particular the negative results – “negative educational level of Austrian students” – and the causes and what to do are the questions. Introduced as the beginning of my answer: The National Education Report is a comprehensive document. He has many chapters, ranging from the competences of the students, the competences of teachers to the right of opportunity, multilingualism, school forms and control instruments. And it is important to stress that this National Education Report also shows positive results in individual areas, for example the success in vocational training or the positive effects of day-to-day school forms. He also shows shortcomings, which is also the basis of a fact-based policy among students, teachers and teachers. For example, the education system NEW, which we decided by large majority before the summer, is for me an important step and an important response, also to the findings. We must continue to work offensively, but at the same time we must see that we are dealing with changes in our society. And if we want to do this in the longer term, as you have tried to do, then we have to consider, for example, that the PISA instrument has only been available since 2000. I wanted to add that at this point. In your second question, you are talking about negative trends in education development and are questioning the measures we have taken. First of all, I would like to relativize what you say in connection with negative trends. You're right: The results PISA 2009 were anything but positive. I very much hope that we will have much better results in December of this year. However, we must also take into account in the assessment that the results in 2009 result from that year in which we were in a not very pleasant situation in the school sector. I can remember that there were the two-hour debates, the boycott calls from the students – I would appreciate this more differentiatedly. I can then speak to more details on Question 3. What did we do? – Don’t worry, I don’t count all 62 projects now, but I have to get out of here, because finally we did some things: Mandatory kindergarten year with language promotion free of charge. The smaller classes – by the way, ladies and gentlemen, there was also a desire for education many years ago. We have implemented this project. We have introduced the education standards in Austria because we no longer want to rely on PISA in the three-year rhythm, but because we want quality assurance around the clock Austria. We have introduced the New Secondary School across Austria, which is now in the middle of the stage plan. We realize the new Matura, which will become reality for at least two schools in 2013/2014, subsequently for all. In a joint long-term effort, we have realized the education of educators NEW, once on a legal basis: Master's degree for all, significantly longer training, especially for the teachers. We've expanded all day schools. You have all agreed to the articles-15a contracts. In addition, I bring the examples of teaching and matura, the great school building program, the free repetition of educational qualifications. When you take all this together and ask yourself in a shortcut – but you can do it calmly – the question is: When do I now see the result of all the measures at PISA?, then if you look at that in this causal context – but don't worry, we also see previous effects – you have to wait for 2019 because you have to wait until the generations come to the vintage that will be tested there. I say again: We have to measure the effect much earlier, and therefore I am glad that we have the education standards throughout Austria. But – and here I am perfectly with you and with many others, including Mr Walser, who is acting on this issue – we also have a lot of work to do in front of us. We must continue to work in the kindergarten, we must anchor elementary education in the tertiary area as well. This is a way that leads us into the future. At the same time, we need to get the BAKIPs. Not everyone working in kindergarten must have a Bachelor's or Master's degree, but I'd be glad if it were the Kindergarten leaders. And we are proud, as we have said, of our vocational schools. We need to further develop and intensify the promotion of language, as I am also full of you. I am pleased that, with Secretary of State, we have briefly developed a concept: Promoting public schools, strengthening public schools, increasing resources for public schools – this is a point that has to go into the next government programme. All day schools are very important and, of course, as a social democrat, I advocate that we leave more time for children to promote gifts, talents individually, and that is why, as the social partners have now stated in their recent paper, the educational decision will be taken later. In assessing my current account, which I present, I would also like to take into account: This is the result of the feasibility in a coalition government. That I often wanted to do more, I think, is known. It is a current account of the feasible. Now on the third question – you ask whether the Austrian students with migration background are guilty of the negative trend in learning. So that's what I'm gonna do. “Negative trend in learning” – yes, we have problems, and we have to solve the problems, and we are putting up the measures and now employ more 11 000 teachers, but “negative trend”? So when I look at PIRLS and TIMSS, I see improvements in mathematics, natural sciences, I take the OECD study place 1 in vocational training. “Education at a Glance” confirms that we prepare our students for the labour market better than many other countries, which is why we also have high youth employment. I see a lot of backwind and support for our reform projects from an international point of view. But yes, we have an increased need for action among students with migration backgrounds, especially when they come from poor families. And that's why we have to start there, at the primary schools that are located in districts, where many poor people live. Where this component, migration background and poor, coincide, there we have massive problems and there schools also need support and support staff. In question 4 you establish a connection between AMS courses, German courses for second and third generation migrants and the school career and think that the school system has failed. I would like to answer that the school administration can have a lot of reasons. Not everyone has to be in school. Nor can I understand the statement about AMS courses – I also lack the statistics – in this sense. But I think it is important that we always give people a second chance. If the school failed, people would have to have a second chance, and that is why it was so important to meet the long-standing demands of the union and the workers' chamber that basic education and repetitions of compulsory schooling are now possible free of charge. And so simple, ladies and gentlemen, this was not to be implemented, since an Article 15a Treaty had to be negotiated with all nine federal states. That was the first Article 15a Treaty on Adult Education in the Second Republic, and I am glad that we realized it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I did not attend a national university until yesterday in Mariahilf, where basic education is offered as courses, and I can tell you that a lot of people benefit from this measure and accept this offer with great joy and great commitment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the fifth question: We have discussed this very often in the Committee on Education. This is devoted to the Austrian education system and the question of costs, and it is clear that we have one of the most financially intensive education systems in the EU and OECD countries. I can only say, Mr Lugar: Yes, we have a very expensive education system if you expect that – you have taken the statistics on expenditure per capita – yes! Now you have to ask yourself the question: Why is that so? First of all, and I am in contradiction with your oral remarks: 89 percent of public expenditure on education is cost for teachers. The administration is relatively low. The fact that a lot can be improved in the administration is that I will be able to do so later, but the major expenditure positions are the expenditure for teachers. It is so; there you can see, that is verifiable. Why are the teachers' costs now so high? First point: Resource management is the time of teaching, and this naturally has to do with the teaching obligation. So the higher the teaching obligation, the better this indicator – now as a whole, of course, not argued from the point of view of the teacher union. The second point is the age of teachers. Many teachers in Austria are over 50 years old, at the same time we have a steep pay curve. This means that teachers currently earn relatively little at the beginning and relatively much more when they are older. This steep pay curve in connection with the age currently, with demographic development, with the teaching obligation is a major cost element. Second point – and I see this positively, so that I don't have anything to say or draw false conclusions – is the Austrian high school density. We have a lot of school locations in Austria, especially in rural areas. This means that the school is close to the families, close to the students. But this is also a cost factor. Third point: We have the world's best vocational education system. The vocational schools, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, when I think of the HTLs in particular, it costs something, but that is not an issue, but it is an investment that is calculated. The result is reflected in the high employment we have in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Fourth point, ladies and gentlemen Ladies and gentlemen: the smaller classes. This was a conscious decision for more individualization, better relations between students and teachers. [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The answer to the next questions is now a bit faster. Question 6: What are the annual costs of Austria's participation in OECD studies? – They asked for the average cost, as this varies depending on the focus. Average: € 750 000 a year through my ministry's mandates. I can't answer the question for others. Question 7: “What studies of the OECD have Austria participated in the education sector since you took office?” I am now also referring to those studies that concern my place of business. I cannot rule out the fact that other departments also award orders, I think, especially the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I'm just counting a few: PISA, PIAAC, Skills Beyond School, Equity and Quality in Education, Learning for Jobs, Improving School Leadership are a number of detailed studies. Question 8 focuses on the concrete findings we draw from these studies. – I would like to say that not only the OECD studies are relevant to us, but also the studies of the EU Commission and, of course, the drafts – example: National Education Report – the experts. First and spontaneous conclusion: We're on the right path! Personally, I am very pleased – even though this is not the case in Austria yet, but it is still the case – that the international specialist world is being recognized for the reform course that we have taken together. Both OECD and the EU Commission confirm this. This is recognized and perceived. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Second point: Vocational training. – I am also pleased to see this – this is also happening internationally, but not only in studies, but also at every ministerial meeting at EU level, we are regularly addressed, there are delegations coming to us almost every week – I am not exaggerating – to look at our dual training, to look at our middle and vocational schools. That's important. The international studies also contribute to the fact that we are also working in Austria in terms of education policy, although I say that education policy always has a political claim and must also have a political claim. They do not find a company around the world that does not operate business policy. So you need the drive to what you want and what you stand for. The results are simply shown by the fact that we now have a National Education Report, which shows the positive but also merciless – you mentioned it – lists the negative points. The studies have helped to ensure that we are output- and competence-oriented on the road, have brought back winds for the education standards, and they point us to them mercilessly again and again – and rightly so! – that education is still inherited in Austria, that there is a direct link between the income and status of parents and the educational success of pupils. We must not let go of this. We must begin to work even more intensively to start early on – Mr Walser often uses the term in this context: no child is left behind; it is about making a later education decision – I say once again: current social security paper, three call marks – and individual concentrated support for pupils. I come to the question 9 in which you – with which I really have no joy – refer to the anonymous letter from BIFIE employees. First of all, I will answer the question and bring my comment to it. First of all: I don't have the anonymous letter, and I don't know the results of studies you're addressing here – it's about teachers' support staff – but I'm not tired of stressing that our teachers need more support staff, but where it's really necessary, needs-oriented. It needs priority schools and – so that this really comes to the school location – a federal quota in the area of school social work, educational support staff. This is also part of the negotiations on service law. So far to question 9; I don't say the other one at all now. Question 10, TALIS study. Why did we no longer participate in the recent OECD TALIS study? Maybe for the introduction: TALIS is an international survey, asking the individual schools if they need more and which support staff. Mr Lugar, we took part in TALIS in 2009. I have also looked at the results in detail and I have to tell you that the results of this study are simply not representative for us. Why? - Because they only focus on secondary education. This leads us from the conclusions to the primary sector, which does not bring us anything in Austria. I therefore – and this is not a party policy decision, but, if you want to, a business decision also of the department – have decided, together with my employees from cost-benefit considerations, to stop participating in this TALIS study. Question 11: Günter Haider believes that one should stop the project “Joint School of the 10- to 14-year-olds” and wait for serious evaluations. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: No! NMS, not common school! That's a difference!]] – New secondary school, yes; You see, I think so. So, of course, I don’t think about that, the project “New Middle School” is a success for me! Mr Walser, you have such a bit of an attitude on this issue: everything or nothing. But that does not lead to anything in a coalition government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] - Nothing! We have continued to take decisive steps: Team coaching, better individual promotion of students. What do the results show us? [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Nothing good!]] – Very positive, Mr Walser! More students have acquired the right if they want to attend a higher school. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: This is a bureaucratic act, not a pedagogical one! The benefits have not improved!]] The number has increased by 11.4 percentage points from 47.8 to 59.2 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Second fact: Parent survey. – High satisfaction of parents with quality, performance and school climate. But now on the point made by Günter Haider in relation to education standards. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You know, we tested the education standards for the first time in May 2012. At the time, there were 67 locations with New Middle School, the first generation, and it was exactly this Günter Haider who said that this was too small a sample for a scientific evaluation. Anyway, no matter what he says now, it's crucial: The eighth school level was tested in English, there are the results in December, and the locations – now there are much more – are evaluated separately with the New Secondary School. You have also asked for an evaluation of the New Middle School, Mr Lugar. – There will be one, the overall evaluation report will be available in spring 2015. On question 12 concerning PISA test 2012, namely a possible regional evaluation of the data, i.e. whether the PISA results could not have been taken into account in Germany: The possibility exists. A parliamentary question and my reply went in that direction at the time. I can only say that my ministry has not requested a federal evaluation. This would have caused considerable additional costs. I cannot tell you whether individual federal states have commissioned regional evaluations. From my point of view, the education standards are already helping us in the meantime. On the question 13: How high are the BIFIE funds? That's a quick answer. 2013: 21.38 million, 2014: 22.98 million, 2015: 20.13 million. Question 14, an important question: ‘Voice You agree that the liberation of the Austrian school administration from party politics is absolutely necessary?" replied Schmied: Yes. Question 15: “Do you consider the fact that the constitutional title of the political protocol in the occupation of the school authorities is still justified and contemporary?” replied Schmied: No, no, no, I have also tried several times to change that. Question 16: “Do you consider the establishment of the National School and District School Councils for the functioning of a modern education system essential?” To this end, I would like to point out that, together with the majority of the constitution, we have managed to abolish the District School Councils. We have thus abolished around 100 authorities, and that was an important step. On the topic of National School Councils: From my point of view, we need a federal administration authority in the federal state. I think that's important. Whether this is called “education management” or otherwise – it must be a federal authority in the federal state, as a competence and service centre so that we can plan well regionally. The emphasis is on federal authority, because only then can management and control work. In question 17 you refer to the Court of Auditors' reform proposals on school administration and question what measures we are taking. This is a subject, Mr Lugar, which we have been discussing here in Parliament for a very long time. There was also a parliamentary survey. I can only tell you that during this legislative period we have implemented the enforceable, which was the abolition of the District School Council level, the strengthening of school locations and the school boards, the simplification of compulsory school teacher administration, national teacher control, greater transparency in ordering procedures and faster completion and easier access to student support. There is a more comprehensive approach to reforming the school administration, which we also discussed in the Subcommittee on the Constitutional Committee, but this comprehensive approach was not enforceable. Question 18: “How do you judge the statement of the head of state Haslauer that he wants to abolish the national school councils?” I repeat: We need an educational administration of the federal state. On the question of 19 concerning the procedure of the National School Councils to report to young teachers about the summer months unemployed. That must be an end, I say. Following the draft and presentation of the new service and remuneration right, these II-L contracts are no longer to exist. Question 20: “What is the condition sine qua non in the teacher service novels 2013?” My answer: There must be a uniform right of service and remuneration for all teachers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] Thank you, Mr Walser. Question 21: “What points – that is a good question – “are still negotiable for you in this draft?” – I do not reveal that. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory remarks by President Neugebauer.]] Mr President, that is not possible! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Question 22: “What about the statement by the Public Service Union that there is no real right of option in the draft new service law?” Ladies and gentlemen! There is an option right by 2019 in our joint proposal, namely the possibility for young teachers to choose between old and new service rights. If the GOODs, if the representatives of the teachers' union also want to have an option right, they must bring it into the negotiations. Question 23 reflects the statement of the GÖD that the new right of service and remuneration would be a savings package at the expense of teachers of € 500 million. We say this out of deep conviction: No, no, no, The calculations are available, you will find the impact assessment also in the assessment draft, in the explanations in the Annex, and also Finance Minister Fekter will not tire out to stress that it causes additional expenditure of €11 billion. Question 24: ‘How to explain Do you see the significant differences in the income comparison of the new income curve between the calculations of your resort and the calculations of the GÖD?" In both the old and the new models, we expect a full employment account; the GÖD calculates the new model in a part-time employment model, only in relation to the educational performance. Question 25: ‘How to explain You can see the statement of the GÖD that for teachers with the draft of the new service right in the professional life, income losses of more than €500 000 will be possible?” – That is simply not understandable to me! I now bring a few examples, you will find the details also on our web page. A folk school teacher currently deserves living income – in the public service one still speaks of “life income” – up to the age of 65, 2.1 million. There is no difference in income. New secondary school: current service law: 2.1 million, new service right: 2.3 million. AHS with regard to secondary education II, German lessons, history: old 2.2 million, new 2.34 million. These are life-income calculations without a cash-value method. Would you look at it a little more and use the cash-value method, which says nothing but: If you have more money, it is worth more than if you only have more money later in life!, then you would see that the calculations for the new service and remuneration right are getting even better. On question 26 – I am already approaching the conclusion –: It is said that trade unionist Paul Kimberger requires 13,000 additional persons, additional support posts. And it is asked whether I consider this claim to be justified? – Answer: No, no, no, We have another school structure – Paul Kimberger derives from the Talis study. We have a lot of small schools. Let me give you an example: 75 percent of the Austrian public schools have a maximum of four classes. We therefore assume that there should be a pool solution as far as educational support staff are concerned. The last offer was 2 000 pedagogical support facilities. It's important to me: Bundespool solution. That seems adequate to us. In the field of administrative matters, and in particular the compulsory schools, Minister of Finance Fekter has agreed in the negotiations to support the fact that there are other measures which I consider absolutely necessary, which I would like to add here. On the last question, Question 27 – “Are you going to work to ensure that the draft new Service Law 2013 () is forwarded to Parliament for negotiation and decision-making before the national elections?” – I would like to say: The assessment period runs until 25. September. We must and will evaluate the opinions. This requires due care. In any event, from my point of view, anything else would also be a disregard for the review process and for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e2586	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. I call Mr Markowitz. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e2613	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mrs Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I am used to that by you, that was all right and beautiful, but I am not satisfied with the right of option, namely when it came to the accusation of the union. You said you didn't tell me. – Probably need You still have an ash in the sleeves in the negotiations, so that you may still enforce the new legislation this year. I think it'll probably be up to it. Mrs. Minister! If we have an expensive education system, we can all expect something good to come out of it. I know you need your partner in the Federal Government so you can do something, but we're still going back a few years. Mrs. Minister, who made the following statements? The promotion of disadvantaged students is mobilised, permanent school reform, a reform of the curriculum and a school reform to increase general education. – Do you know who this statement is from? – By Hilde Hawlicek of 1987, from your former SPÖ minister. [[Abg. Heinzl: A historian!]] That is, we have known exactly where the problems lie for 26, 27 years. In reality, we are always talking about the same problems. Every new government or new minister says: My five-year plan looks like this, we need a reform, we need a renewal of the teacher service law, we need to see that the Austrian education system, which is not favourable, also arrives with the students. – I can only say: Yeah, I'll give every single one that says that. But it can't be – therefore it was so important that we called for today's special meeting – that teachers' unions, although negotiated throughout the summer – and that was important – then, when the holidays end, there are threats of strike, because the sufferers are always the parents who already have to make sure that the care of children is given throughout the summer, which means that “family sense” can no longer be lived. And we should also ask that question. Mr Mayer will probably be right, because we have often discussed this. It is true that in July the father has to go on vacation and in August the mother so that the whole thing works. One cannot constantly carry out this dispute on the back of parents and children. You know that very well! The sufferers are the parents. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have a huge education system, and yet in Carinthia, the parents spend €670 a year in supplementary assistance. It's not understandable, it's not manageable. We know very well that we have a huge problem. Mrs. Schmied, I am not talking to you – even if you were behind me; I know you are taking this very seriously anyway – Mrs Hosek, I am now discussing with Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: What is this, please?]] [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: Your mode of expression!]] I know you, Mrs. Schmied, take things very seriously. I know how important it is to you that we carry on a little bit in education policy, but no one outside understands that it is only about party politics. That is why we are very pleased that you have answered this very clearly today. On the question: What do you think about the fact that politics is so strongly represented and anchored in Austrian schools? Politics has to get out of schools! - We welcome that. And this is a success experience today, I have to say, because you know very well that nothing is going on with blockade policy. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] We have created something great, the democracy workshop. In these there are different groups of schools with which we can discuss. Recently, students of a special school were here with whom I discussed. And after half an hour of discussion – and this is about migration and integration, Mrs. Minister – I asked myself: What do some of these children, at least five of them, do in the school? They were completely wrong in the square. The teachers then confirmed this to me. These students came to the special school because at the beginning they did not know the German language and could not follow the teaching material. That's why they were transferred to special school. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That is what we should be thinking seriously. Because that means we grow young people's future – mostly the young people who come from no wealthy parents' home. They don't get out of this situation either, because they're inside this swamp. We need a gift promotion early. We need a language promotion in kindergarten, we know that. We can talk about everything, but ultimately the well-being of each individual child must be in the foreground, no matter where it comes from and from which layer it comes. That must be guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen! That's where we really want to put the lever on. And if in spite of a minister who is trying and despite an opposition that always shows that we are 12 000 young every year – 12 000! – having no education – these are the latest figures, namely from 2012 – in this situation, then we cannot go to the agenda, then we cannot pretend everything is fine. Then we can't just make an election fight now, and then everything goes on like that again. This issue is far too serious for this. These 12,000 young people are the long-term unemployed of tomorrow – this also shows statistics. That is why we have to put on the lever here, and you will find in us a partner, namely, if there is really the will to do something when it comes to reducing these numbers, looking at what the problems are. The proportion has to get out of schools. We've all won with each young person we're putting on the right track here and later getting a teaching job. And if it is the summation of the present day, this special meeting is that we say: Let us forget the party policy! – in, I don’t know, 13 days are elections – and then something happen comes out, then it was good, then it was good that we convened today’s special meeting. I am convinced that we are finally together – and I am more interested in SPÖ and not the blockers of the ÖVP – trying to move something together for our school and for our children. I believe that is why we are making policy and that is why we have been elected. Mrs. Minister, something is very important – that was the first six-party request of our story –: We need more gymnastics in Austria's schools. I think this is a great thing – Peter Westenthaler will give me that right – but – I have now looked at it exactly – in the applications for the teaching profession – the woman minister will give me the right – 15 percent of applicants were not suitable. 15 percent fail in Carinthia, these are the latest figures, at the recording exam because they are not sporty enough. That means you have to do something, too. I know we need a lot of young teachers, especially for sports. You, Mrs. Minister, have said that 87 percent of your budget is used for wages. That's crazy! People don't believe that. Imagine someone running a company that spends 87 percent of their wages budget! By this we recognize the importance of creating a new teacher's right. At last we need to implement a new teacher's right to make more money for the young teachers, for those who are with us longer, the salary curve simply becomes flatter and the output for our children is as big as possible. That's what I wish for the future. I am convinced that, with serious negotiations and away from a blockade, we can move a lot for Austria and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e2705	Next speaker: Mr Elmar Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e2730	Mr President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank God, Mr Lugar, life in schools is a little different than yours. In the last two, three weeks – I don't know what it was like in the other federal states – there was the opportunity to have discussions with students at the higher schools of our federal state – some of which also included colleague Hagen. And I have given a very different impression, both in terms of the use of teachers and the gifts of students who are students: They were engaged, they were locked up, they were motivated. Fortunately, everyday life in school is not the way it is often drawn here, but is characterized by a commitment of the teachers and an active co-ton of the students. – It is very important to me to say that in the beginning, because others are simply wrong! Your remarks give the impression that you have either never been to school or have been away for a long time, because what is happening at schools every day, and what we have done here also shows a completely different picture. I know from my work as a teacher and also as a school teacher how important it would be to have the opportunity to participate in how school policy is developing in a sustainable way. I have experienced this in a responsible position at the community level, as a countryman in opposition, I have had the incredible opportunity to demand everything that would only be on the desired tree above – similar to what Mr Walser is doing here now – and I have seen it as a great challenge when I was asked whether I would be willing to make the education speaker for our group. I also knew that this means great responsibility, because all the things – that is very, very important to me – that we do here, together we should actually work on a sustainable basis. It must be over – I share this conviction with many – with flickwork and other things. You have to know where to go. We all want a school where every single child, regardless of the parent's wallet, can use his or her personal possibilities, develop his or her individual skills, and if possible no child will stay on the track. That's our stated goal. And all the measures that we have already decided and that we will decide together in future should go in this direction, that we can guarantee that our children actually have the best of all schools. These are the measures, Mr Walser and other opposition speakers, which will come out subsequently, which we have put together in part during the last five years: the promotion of language for migrant children, but also for children with German mother tongues who have shortcomings; the compulsory kindergarten year; the smaller classes with the limitation of the maximum number of students; the education standards which are now emerging from the school trial stage, but The Matura-new; the reform of the upper level, which we have decided together here, with the modular upper level – we want actually talented people to be able to continue to develop, even for the university, if you want, to work ahead, and others to be taken away from the parents by the modular upper level, because the funding takes place at school. We have taken all these measures together, and I promise you that they will be sustainable. In the short term, in figures, more than € 1 billion in addition to the education budget and more than 11 000 posts in this field of education – for smaller classes, for the New Secondary School, for language promotion. All these measures have been taken, but I admit that it is not immediately measurable. I remember a statement by Dr. Christiane Spiel in the “Standard” which said: It is in the school development process something different than in a hospital where I have a new surgical method, I bring all doctors back and say that is the new method, on it we are now putting about, and I can then operate immediately after this method, and the patients are immediately enjoying this advantage. The development in the school sector is sustainable, is another. And that is exactly what we are doing. The Minister has already said that these things cannot be measured today or tomorrow, but in the long term they are measurable, because they clearly go in the right direction. It would therefore be worth talking positively about education policy, because it is a decisive factor for the future, for the development of our society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A good school – even if it didn't need the Hattie study; it's important that they exist – stands and falls with the teacher's personality. Everyone who has gone to school knows this. Everyone who also deals with education policy at a different level knows that. That is why we have used a large part of our commitment, our heart's blood, to actually bring a new educational training to the rails; a pedagogical training, which can be seen, can also be seen internationally. I know that, in part, this means a doubling of the education for primary school teachers, including participation, a first step towards elementary pedagogy, master of early education, the possibility that this is at least offered. The development shows that this is right. Therefore, it is extremely important that we have a uniform teacher training in the future. Regardless of the type of school in which a teacher is taught, whether primary school, secondary school or upper secondary school, all should have the same qualification, according to the latest knowledge. And this is guaranteed with this new educational training. That is why it is very important that we now – and this is at the heart of the debate today – bring a new right of service to the goal. Much has been done for this too. After the negotiations had started, 32 rounds were completed. Now the government has shown, we mean it seriously, we send it in review. And new proposals are to be made. The best thing is the enemy of good, I already admit, but it is the goal – that was said by everyone, by both government partners; that is quite, very important – to bring this right of service into the goal of making nails with heads here and closing the bag so that you know: We have with the new pedagogical training and to the new right of service, which is actually done in the future to the best of the young boys and girls who are suitable to motivate entry into this profession, by the way, with a stage of fitness. It is therefore not the case that we are taking everyone, but those who are actually qualified and want to do so should have the opportunity to do so. It is important to recognize clearly: In the context of the opinions, there is a willingness to negotiate – otherwise there is no need for an evaluation – but the stated aim is to bring this right of service into line with the aim of deciding on this right of service so that anyone who starts new – there is then the opportunity to opt for five years – who then completes his vocational training in accordance with the new training scheme knows what conditions he is employed. I mean, this way is right, it's serious, and that's why we support it. And I am convinced that all the further measures that we still have to take in the next legislative period – projects such as early promotion, common school, full day support, school without a school bag, as I would like to say – that will be on the agenda to create the best school for our children. We want a school for the students, because the students are our future, and to invest in our future, I still mean the best we can do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e2824	Next speaker: Mrs Marek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e2845	Mr President. Ladies Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by saying a few words to Mr Klubobmann Lugar, which is also about his division. Mr Klubobmann Lugar, you have started with an ethical question, which was actually absolutely unethical, as you have said. And the vocabulary you used is massive. They said – the Federal Minister mentioned it – that the school system produces people who are not usable on the labour market. [[Abg. Wenninger: Disdainful!]] You're horrified when you hear that. Ladies and gentlemen of the Stronach team, if something is worthless or not usable, then these are the positions of the Stronach team on education policy and on the education system! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] I looked at the positions of the Stronach team on education. You actually find little, except a few statements from your party founder. For example, if you look at the statement about the common school of the 10- to 14-year-olds – you probably know the statement – he says that you must not mix the 10- to 14-year-olds together, because this does not work in football. Such and similarly unqualified statements are heard, but no more. Ladies and gentlemen! For us, education is a central topic of the future, one from which political change cannot be made in the campaign. We have already heard it in the previous speeches, it has happened very much in the last four or five years. This is a balance sheet that can truly be seen: We have decided on many joint projects – the Federal Minister and Mr Elmar Mayer have already mentioned – which we can also be very proud of. For us, everything we have agreed together here was important the fundamental principles, namely differentiation, diversity, freedom of choice and the idea of performance. This has always been a priority for us in everything we have done in the field of education, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Elmar Mayer.]] One thing I almost read with smiles in the urgent request of the Stronach team: You've criticized the District School Councils. – You were there when we abolished the District School Councils together before the summer, as the first step of the school administration reform, ladies and gentlemen. This may be a little political Alzheimer's, ladies and gentlemen of the Stronach team! [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's embarrassing!]] To promote language: These are just a few points where we have taken the first steps, some of which we would like to continue. We have implemented a number of key points in the kindergarten, including the promotion of language – in this respect also a great thank you to our State Secretary Sebastian Kurz, who is very committed to the promotion of language, who, together with the Federal Minister, initiated that the children in the kindergarten can best be promoted, in the mandatory free kindergarten year. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Where?]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Exclusion he runs! Special classes for migrants! That's not the way! That's the way back!]] We also want to work with the parents to ensure that there is a second mandatory kindergarten year for those who need it – free for everyone who will be a challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, quite, very important to me is also: We are working on this and in recent years we have already begun the massive expansion of all-day school offerings. Before the summer we made a further decision here: We want to double the number of seats to 250 000 by 2018. By 2018, we invest 80 million and 160 million € each year. I would like to say something basic at this point, ladies and gentlemen: We confess ourselves quite clearly to the expansion of all-day school offerings. [[Call at the FPÖ: Who is “we”?]] The ÖVP stands behind that massively. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who is “the ÖVP”?]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: How many ÖVPs are there? The right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing.]] This is important, and there is also a need. Our goal is, ladies and gentlemen: All students who want and need a full-day place should also get him. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is our confession, ladies and gentlemen. But what is quite clear to us, and I would like to stress this again at this point: The parents decide for themselves whether to use this place and what form this place has: whether it is restricted, without flexibility, or whether it is a school with afternoon care, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The decision whether a child attends a school all day without flexibility or half-days a school with afternoon care, the parents decide on their own and no one else, because it cannot be the state that decides whether the children will not be able to attend any football club, music school or the like in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Well, please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Walser) That's the reality!]] This flexibility will continue to exist for parents in the future. That is what we stand for, and that is what we are confessing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I simply find it inconceivable when SPÖ City School Council President Brandsteidl says in Vienna that those who can afford it should send their children to a private school most appropriate if they want to maintain this freedom of choice in future, as well as the demand for compulsory kindergarten from the first year of life. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Worm and Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] This accusation, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you have to let yourself down, and you can't dispute it either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To take the freedom of choice and decision – that towards Mrs Glawischnig – is simply communist in order to prevent misunderstandings. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: “Communist”?]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, We guard against any demise. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Are we in the cultural struggle of the 1930s?]] A two-thirds majority at the site for the individual decision, that is what we stand for. This will continue to exist with the ÖVP – that is what we stand for, ladies and gentlemen! [[Further calls to the Greens.]] A challenge for the next legislative period will be to start at the folk school. We have heard that in the last speeches. The folk school is a central challenge: Read, write, calculate, this is where the ground floor is laid. Those who do not read, write and calculate in the public school also have massive problems in the secondary schools. There will be further problems there. We need to strengthen public schools, ladies and gentlemen. Also a few sentences on something quite basic: From our side the clear commitment to the differentiated school system takes place once again. We are clearly convinced that children can be better promoted in a differentiated school system, in all their gifts, inclinations, personal interests. The international numbers – even if you always claim to be different – speak quite clearly for us. In an interview today, Eva Glawischnig says that it can't be that ten-year-olds already have to decide whether to go to university or not. – This is clearly wrong, ladies and gentlemen! We have maximum permeability in our differentiated school system. Each second comes through the primary school to Matura and, of course, then continues to study. [[Abg. Brosz: (shaking the head) Exactly! This shows the statistics!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: There were a few studies! I'll make them available to you!]] So it doesn't work if, due to the problems we have in the cities – and there are challenges, we know – you want to simply crush the proven gymnasia. It doesn't work with us, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to draw attention to the teachers. No school system works if there are no dedicated teachers. To save here would be the wrong thing to do. That's why you can only say to the new teacher service law: After the assessment that was necessary because so many questions were open, it is important to use, to draw on and go back to the negotiating table. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Back to the start is called that!]] We are on the social partners. The ladies behind me are in charge. [[Abg. May. Gässner: (to the President of Neugebauer point out) The Lord behind you too?]] It is about coming to the final together and bringing together a common teacher service law, which is sustainable, together and socially partnership – which is such a high asset in Austria – to the goal. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e3162	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e3183	Mr President. Not only the ladies behind me, but also you have a strong word to speak in future, together with your fellow trade unionists, not only in the negotiating direction here, but also in the case of teacher service law. So it is not only the ladies – Mrs Marek, that please pay particular attention to the right gender! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] It should already be noted that I deeply reject the fact that Mr Lugar has used the beginning of his speech in order to make an even more bow on the debate on education from a unique tragedy. – I reject that from my inner conviction. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But it has proved the speech of the clubman Lugar of the Stronach team: Even if he has proper approaches, he brings them so that you can't understand. There you can see: It is not only – as an OECD study shows – that Austria has an expensive educational system, and if you pump a lot of money into it above, little comes out, but the Stronach team is an example that beats the Austrian education system around miles, because there is a lot of money pumping into it above, and what comes out then we have clearly seen in your opening speech. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you put on the educational debate here and say, yes, we have to go in because of the right to teach and give the government appropriate support before the elections, then I have to say: But it does not happen! It's not coming from you! Where's the new teacher's law? Of course there are also other points: My predecessor, Mrs Marek, explained what she and the ÖVP are all about in the future. . I would ask you to speak briefly to your Secretary of State, perhaps a serious word, because, I believe, the EIA positions on education policy – as you have mentioned them, for example, that the gymnasium should be preserved, that one should have freedom of choice or the like – have not yet passed into meat and blood. He even answered in the television discussion on the “In the Center” programme the question with which party would make it most fun for him to make education policy: with the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: So I convinced him! He listened, and then he was convinced!]] If you want to do this with the Green Education Policy, it does not look like you, Mrs Marek, have described it, and that is exactly the problem that the EIA has in educational matters: They make a spatula between the left and the right, and if you don't control a spatula well, it can sometimes hurt very much in the middle – also on 29 October. September. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: You can't do that!]] On the question of education, I should like to say immediately: Of course, we have implemented many educational reforms. Many things have also been decided unanimously. But there are still large areas, large construction sites, such as teacher service law. What was this for a time when there were a few respectable people in one place: the mayor, the priest, the doctor – the house doctor, the parish doctor – and the teacher. And what's left of all that? – The mayor is the one who is responsible for everything that goes wrong. I can understand this quite clearly in some communities governed by ÖVP and SPÖ. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Well, well! The mayor has more reputation than we do!]] You can hardly find any more pastors. House doctors will soon find no more. What about the teacher? – He has become what should not actually be. He is primarily responsible for almost everything in public perception, but he has now also become a social worker, who may by chance still be lucky that he has a roof above the head, which is still called school, otherwise he might even be a street worker. That is to say, the teacher has become a social worker from the purely educational and knowledge mediator, and we reject that. Both – on the one hand, knowledge transfer, education and on the other hand social work – have its right, but there is nothing to mix here. Unfortunately, the image of teachers and teachers in this country has fallen – also through the Boulevard – and the law of teachers, the working hours, the holidays are very appropriate means to have a discussion, because of course many people with envy are looking at the holiday schemes. We are the last ones who would not say that one can discuss the holiday arrangements – for example, whether the holiday should last so long in summer, because there are, of course, parents for whom it is a great challenge to know the children over two months. There must be a change. But I think the teachers are the last who wouldn't be flexible enough. It is all just a matter of division and will. On this issue of teacher service rights, the 33 rounds of negotiations are always discussed, which were unsuccessful. We liberals were not involved in any of these negotiations in any form. – You have to say this and take note of it here. We only read the newspaper reports afterwards, who blames him, that nothing has gone on, who calls blockers, who calls what claims as overburdened. In this situation, the government has now put a tremendous act of strength: The Austrian Federal Government unanimously launched the draft law on Teacher Service Law, even before this National Council election, with a period of assessment, the two or four days, I think, before the National Council election ends – that is, decision-making before the National Council election certainly no, thank you! – A pure muscle game to distract! It is not really planned to do anything like this, but it is obviously planned to continue negotiating afterwards – and that is also good! In this law of teacher service – the President referred to it as “smart” in a very short time – I do not want to say anything about it; he will already know what he is talking about – there are some weaknesses. It is also noteworthy in the course of this National Council election: There is this power act of the Federal Government: Now we're going to show it to the teachers' union and the teachers so correctly, and we're gonna knock this right of duty on the table without a union! Before such a thing can happen in a federal government, however, the Federal Chancellor Faymann of SPÖ does not ask the vice chancellor and ÖVP chief Spindelegger, but before he has to get the Ok in a conversation with the Lower Austrian head of state Erwin Pröll. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. New builder.]] – That’s how it really is about the meanings and values in the ÖVP itself, who actually has the saying and who has to consult Chancellor Faymann. But please do not believe too much that Faymann would be the strong man, because Faymann has already asked for it at Häupl before, and in reality heupl and Pröll still determine what is to be done in this federal territory as a whole. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: He's not that strong anymore!]] This teacher's law contains a number of points to which one must say a general sentence: It is treated differently. – This is a general mistake! If you say you want to make everything equal – and this social-political access now has left-wing parties; they tend to and are less oriented to freedom and the difference – then some can get along with it. But it is now true that children with special educational needs, children with special education needs, young people who are just before they get into work – say: after a primary school, new secondary school, secondary school – or those who are in front of the matura, all have different needs. Therefore, there is also a need for different teachers. And even in teacher training, these differences should not be covered. A special point: 22 instead of 24 lessons in vocational schools; in compulsory schooling there are now 26. That means there is now being reduced at once? That means more posts are necessary? There is also no support staff that teachers call for, there are simply no school buildings ready for it, and this act also contains regulatory powers. Regulation powers are the worst thing you can imagine in a law, because then everything is done in the minor place. It seems to me that the Austrian education policy is being made by experts at the Minorite Square, who in reality have no idea what is happening in the daily practice at Austrian schools. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is simply an ivory tower where papers are developed, which are again compacted from one working group to another, from one Stakeholder conference to the other on land – and again a new working paper! However, reality does not look like this, but education policy must be based on people who really work in the field of education. There are many opinions on very, very many points, on the feasibility of mentoring, on the commitment to hospitalization, on what problems young teachers will have if they have the full teaching obligation and a special training programme at the educational universities and have to focus on it. It is not clear how all of this is to be done in the case of corresponding salaries. But the last staircase was actually – because I see the ministers Schmied and Heinisch-Hosek here right now –: There are a lot of opinions that are going on to say that many women who have taken the teaching profession are now saying these changes are anti-female. – You have to let yourself say that once!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e3307	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e3328	Mr President. Estimated ladies on the government bank! High house! It is not unusual that we have an educational discussion here about the detour of a teacher's right and that it is not in the foreground what our children need in school, how we can organize the school in such a way that they meet these needs, for example, that alone people can be sure that their children will be cared for in the school as they wish, and that they will be promoted to a hundred percent. That would be the central questions, we should discuss them – and not go the detour via a teacher's service right! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A second one: Mrs Marek, it is really an immeasurable thing to blame Eva Glavischnig for some communist drive because she demands that children also find forms of care all day long. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: What then?]] [[Abg. Steibl: It'll be all right!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You are approaching the level of your top candidate, the Noch Vice Chancellor, you are approaching the level of the ÖVP election posters, where you place the “once” and submit to us that we want the forced-day kindergarten. The spectators, the Austrians can take a picture of it themselves, they can read our party program, our election program. We are concerned – and Eva Glavischnig tried to make it clear to your party owner yesterday x-fold – to make the offer available. To say on this offer that it is communist is simply beyond. I would recommend: For example, deal with your communist party colleague in South Tyrol! Or deal with the communist party colleagues from the CSU in Bavaria! [[Abg. Clickovits: That's cool!]] They have implemented exactly what we are calling for here! Unfortunately, we are at the end of the European order, and that must not be so, we urgently need to change something. Unfortunately today's debate shows once again: It's just the greens that make clear positions here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Clickovits.]] The discussion you have about teacher service law is a power policy and not a content! We discuss content, we do not want to fall back into the old clichés, but we want to know: What do children need? What do their parents need? – We need to take this into account when we are dealing with reforms. Mrs Minister, one word to you: You spoke of 62 projects you have implemented. – This is like wilding on his machine: Mainly fast, no matter where! One reform goes in the direction, the other goes in the other direction. As long as we do not have a government with a clear vision where our education system is supposed to be in ten years, we will not have any meaningful discussions. This vision must look so that we individually promote each child. Every child in that state has a right to receive the best possible support in school. And this is not about a potting school, as the ÖVP calls it and then suggests a two-poting school, but so to speak, it's about more color in schools to promote more opportunities for teachers, children. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Look at what your colleagues are doing abroad! Look at what the conservatives have done in Poland! – A reform in about the way we Greens want it. And the result can be seen: Poland was 2000 final light, everywhere, was clearly behind Austria. And today? Today, Poland has overwhelmed us in every area. The Poles are now in all rankings in the first third. Everywhere! That's what the Poles did in a decade and a half. But you from the ÖVP still stand on the brake with both feet and prevent a reasonable reform that everyone in Austria now wants; at least one person who knows very little in the school system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Minister, an example of this: We all discussed intensively in the Committee that we should finally be pedagogical about pedagogical training. But what are you doing? – They deliberately speak of a “teacher’s service law”. On the other hand, we are talking about a “pedagogical service law” because we also want to include kindergarten teachers in it, because at last the kindergarten teachers also need the recognition they deserve for their extremely important work. We need the best educators among the little ones, and they are in kindergarten and folk school. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is already an interesting development: In this country – and that is the good news! – there is a social set-up in the field of education, a break-up that has unfortunately passed politics so far. In particular, the ÖVP has not yet recorded it. Two days ago, the social partners in Bad Ischl, among them many of the ÖVP – and I would be interested to see what the gentlemen of the Chamber of Commerce and the ÖVP of the ÖVP say about it – published a paper where they are – horribile dictu! – the Joint School demands. [[Abg. Ollinger: Communists!]] This paper is two days old, please! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP and of the Economic Federation, do you not trust to say the party, or are there some Communists hidden in you? That's where you need to be careful! So: Please finally get closer to the European standard and don't move further, otherwise you'll play the future there! Their economic operators have recognized this. I was particularly in July in a variety of farms in Vorarlberg. Same thing everywhere: Headshakes about the position of the ÖVP, namely, headshakes about the fact that young people aged 15 cannot read in full, and headshakes about the fact that the Chamber of Commerce in Vorarlberg has to suspend premiums so that children can be properly read and written so that young people who start teaching can be taught. That's what you've been baffled by! It's been a shock for decades of EIA education! And now we have to fix: It's a little bit of a repair and it's a little bit of a repair! That's what we have to do, that's clear. But the essential is the great design: that we agree on the fundamental goals! That's essential. Unfortunately, however, there is still no willingness. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister! They also said, among other things, that Andreas Schleicher also found positive things in the Austrian education system. But they have certainly read his statements on the whole and therefore know that he has said that the Austrian education system is still one of the most unjust in all of Europe. So look at that. Please, just what Andreas Schleicher meant! And look at exactly what the OECD is telling us! Because it doesn't look good: If we're in the first place today, we're in the first place. District in Vienna have registered 94 percent of children in the AHS sub-level and there are districts, such as Hermagor in Carinthia or Bregenz Forest in Vorarlberg, where the registration rate is between 1 and 2 percent, then we have a socially unfair school system and then, as this case shows, we have regionally an unfair school system. This is exactly what the EIAs should make clear to their followers, especially their rural followers, that they are in a very serious position to reduce the educational disadvantages of rural areas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Children are not power machines, children need time, children need to be able to learn in peace. This requires fundamental reforms, as teachers must be supported and they must not be beaten. The frustration at the schools is very great, and that is understandable. In one, Mr President, please do not be afraid now! – I agree with you: It is not up to us to have a new teacher's right where individual groups deserve less than before. That's indisputable! Teachers don't deserve enough now, and it can't be that individual groups are worse off. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We must put children at the centre! Children are naturally curious, they are curious. We must have a system where we do not drive it out in school, but where we promote it. That's what we're standing for! And to do this, we need a teacher's service right, which supports this, which enables teachers to really support the children! This is not the case at present. We Greens are working to make this happen. ==References== We will make our contribution to this on September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e3517	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e3538	Mr President and Chief Teacher Trade Union of the Republic of Austria! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of red and black, in the evening the lazy will be diligent! I thought that when I heard that you were able to get through before the elections to decide on a new teacher's right to serve. I have basically the same impression as the entire population and all those who have dealt with the education system in Austria in recent years: It is true that you make the exact same mistake again as in the previous elections, namely: Something is promised before the elections, and after the elections it will be broken and broken again. That is exactly what we cannot need in the field of ‘education’, for education is one of the central themes that we should take to heart at all! And to misuse this for a electoral gag is grossly negligent. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! That's something I also need to start with, because we don't have a master plan for education in Austria. It is true that only the teachers' unions are placed at the centre of education policy, which is basically what no one who is concerned about the education system in Austria understands, that only the concerns of the teachers are discussed. Teachers are important, and there are a stately number of best-qualified teachers in Austria, not at all a question, but teachers are not the problem to me, but government policy is the problem. That's the problem! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We must work on this problem! The government of Red and Black must finally realize that we need a general school reform in Austria and that it is not done with the teachers spending two hours a week in the future in the school. This does not solve the problem, ladies and gentlemen of the government, but at best for a few months is delayed! We are essentially concerned that, as the party of the modern center, we put the students at the centre of the educational reform. The student is at the centre of the school and is concerned about the student's right to be trained in Austria in order to master the most important cultural techniques of our civilization after the ninth school level, when he leaves school. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I agree with all the parties that they basically mean well with education in Austria. But finally take the school's de-party politicization seriously! I do not mean depoliticization, because political education is also important in school, but one does not come by it, especially if one is allowed to vote from 16 years of age, but I mean the party politicization! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, Mrs. Federal Minister, have yourself meant that this is an important point of departure. But then let's start with that! Finally, let us also discuss how we manage to ensure that the Party policy in modern education in Austria is no longer a place! But we can only do that if we make a clear division of competence. For me, this clear division of competences looks so that education is federal competence and the state princes and also the mayors are not allowed to rule into school and education. [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] The party book may no longer have any place in school and in teachers. It is still going on today and there is a common practice or practice that in Lower Austria every teacher must have a black party book and in Vienna a red one. That's still a living practice today! Every day we experience that. Everyone sitting in here knows that. Therefore, I do not understand that we cannot at last agree on a clear division of competences. If this is really a matter of concern to everyone in this House, just as he promises to every voter and every voter outside this House, then he must stand by the fact that there is a de-party politics and the competences are clearly regulated. The second major point, Mrs Bundesminister: There must be a clear target definition! For me as one who says that education is an essential pillar of our prosperity, which must secure us survival in the future, the goal number one can only be that no student in Austria leaves school without being able to read, count, and write meaningfully. That must be the target number one we have to pursue! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No one's allowed to leave school before. Everyone has to stay in school until he fully masters it. Otherwise, I can't imagine that education can work. We know that 20 percent of all compulsory school leavers do not control our cultural techniques. And this is an evidence of poverty for the state of our education policy! Parents have to spend 100 million € per year for follow-up hours. These two points alone are the most convincing and best evidence that education in Austria does not work, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen! And this proves that this is a failure in the capital of red and black. It is not to be described as something else. Whether these problems will solve a common school or all-day schools in the future is not so much the question now, but is crucial that there is an internal differentiation in the school system. And to do that, we need the gymnasia. We must demand the good students and promote the bad ones. There's no way past that! And we need a uniform right of service, based solely on the fact that only fair and fair can be what educators in Austria deserve, from kindergarten teachers up to university teachers. And we need a uniform right of service for that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want to know whether red and black are actually standing in here to what their tops have negotiated in terms of teacher service law. We want to do the most educational here today. That's why we're putting this thing in shape here. an application for a time limit. Then we'll see how serious it is for the red and black to do something in terms of education. We say: Yeah, we're on it! There are many kilometres of negotiations ahead of us, but if you consider how little has really been done in recent decades here, ladies and gentlemen of red and black, then I have to say, every millimeter movement is good for our education system and positive for the students. That's why my appeal is: You too agree with this proposal for a deadline today!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e3698	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e3720	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have experienced something that is symptomatic of the problem: The Minister has stood here and has recognized all that has been demanded for decades. First: National rights must be restricted. Secondly, The Council of State Schools must be abolished. And the third and most important: Politics has to get out of school. All of this has been recognized by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and has also said it here today, what I think is very courageous, but that is exactly the problem, because a SPÖ minister already recognized it 26 years ago. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] But what happened in the meantime? [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister, that you have recognized this is quite natural, because you know the problems. If you as a minister did not know the problems, it would be really sad. Only: The problem is that you can't put it into practice that you can't change it. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Another problem: the problem of the problem!]] And you yourself have also explained why you cannot change it, and you have said the following: More was simply not possible, and that is because today there is someone sitting at the Bureau who has given a face to the blocking and the prevention. [[Abg. May. Kogler: the officials!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] As much as I appreciate you as the second President of the National Council, Mr Neugebauer, I must say: They have given a face to the prevented and blocking in this country. Finally, you have managed with your anti-union tactics to provide bear service first of all to the union – and the population can no longer enjoy this: this prevention – and second, you have shown how powerless red and black are in this Republic. You proved that! You have proved that this constellation can do nothing even after the election. I can't! Red and black are blocked by themselves. I am speaking to many Members of both political groups. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Honest?]] And there are also very reasonable people. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who?]] There are also very reasonable people at the ÖVP and at the SPÖ. And again and again I hear the same thing: It is unbearable to rule with each other, it is just blocked, nothing goes on! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] These Members, too, know that something should go further in this country, but they can no longer rule with each other. That's why I'm saying: Let us free the orderly of ÖVP and SPÖ from their yoke! Let us free them from this great coalition and create new majority in Parliament, because only then can we finally do something for education, for pensions, for health and against this administration! [[demostratetive applause with the Stronach team]] We must finally tackle the problems of this country! But the woman minister is still here today helpless. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: She's sitting still!]] She has recognized what it fails to do, and not because she is a bad minister – I see it completely differentiated – but she does quite a good job, but she cannot develop in her work because she is disabled. That's the problem! - Who? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who?]] – After each other: The SPÖ is blocked by the ÖVP, and the ÖVP blocks the SPÖ. That's the point! And here we have to see that – exactly, that's the point! [[Abg. Brosz: The ÖVP blocks itself!]] Mr Spindelegger made a joke. He said: What do SPÖ and ÖVP gatherings have in common? – Both talk badly about the ÖVP, Mr Spindelegger said. That means he knows about himself in his party, he knows how it goes there. And that's the point! I do not want to make the ÖVP and the SPÖ bad, there are, as has already been said, good Members in these two parties. The problem is just: It's not going to work with each other anymore! That's why I'm looking for the Austrians: Please, don't make the mistake on the 29th. September and send these two parties back to a coalition where we have to wait five years for reforms again! Don't do that! Create the opportunity for new majority voting in Parliament! And then we can finally move something together. I think that's what people in this country deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e3897	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e3918	Ladies and gentlemen! Today's special session brings some positive results. The most positive thing about this is that today we can have a parliamentary debate on the development of educational opportunities in Austria on a truly important issue that is important for the future. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] At the first appearance of Mr Lugar, I thought first of all that the negative is the slightly opposite presentation on the subject of the Stronach team. I want to think more positively. It is also good for voters to see on TV screens what is really being offered behind the facade of the Stronach team. [[Abg. New builder: Money, money, money!]] To that extent, please report to me a third time, Mr Lugar, so that this can be communicated very impressively. It is an important issue for us, because from our point of view – and this opinion we share here by far – education is the key to a self-determined life and opportunities for all children. It is particularly important for all children, regardless of how thick the parent's wallet is, that must not matter. Only one page comment on another topic: Mr Rosenkranz was concerned about women's hostility earlier. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: This is what teachers send me!]] Mr Rosenkranz, I can help you a little bit on the jumps, which is really anti-female. I've seen ads from your party on which you write: In 1970, the women were allowed to stay at home, 2013, the women must earn it. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: This is the truth!]] So please, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, this is really anti-female to place in 2013 the ideal image of the little house on the herd and to see the women as those who would at best deserve it. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] So this, ladies and gentlemen, is really hostile to women! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: You should talk to the women once! Talk to women who really have children!]] Women today want to live by themselves – and we are already on the subject again – and the key to self-determined life is a good education, for women and men, for children, whatever origin. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Lugar, if I listen to you, I wonder where you have spent the last few years. You have been sitting here in the house, but it seems that you have passed what has been done in recent years on important educational policies. I should like to remind you once again: the smaller classes of school; the New Secondary School, where, unlike what you are writing, of course, performance-oriented learning is coordinated with the individual child in order to promote the individual child; the expansion of all day care with particular emphasis on all day schools; a compulsory kindergarten year, free to promote the children in this particularly important phase; and much more. As shortly before the election is always asked what coalition, who comes after, and what comes after, I can also recall a little, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, what was then when you ruled together with the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That was great!]] That was in the phase of the high economy, where we are in a more budgetary position than we are today. At that time, there was less budget for education. There were fewer teachers – 8 000 to 10,000 jobs were reduced – and there were fewer hours. And today, in a phase in which a crisis is to be overcome, we have said that education must continue to be a priority. So today there is more budget, more teachers, and that in the number of students falling. I think we should continue on this path. [[Abg. Neubauer: If it were at least a way!]] I am also optimistic that we can take our present coalition partner on the road, because, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the smoothed slogans that come from your side do not believe you anymore. In private discussions, I hear that even your own people no longer believe this and no longer want you to decouple the development of our country from European progress. Listen to what the social partners say, your representatives in the social partners – Leitl, Kapsch – listen to what your national leaders say – Platter, Wallner, Haslauer! Everyone says that in the next few years we must make significant progress towards common school and towards day-to-day schools, because in these forms of school there is really the future for our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4043	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4065	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In advance, I can say that our school and training system cannot be so bad if, for example, we compare youth unemployment in Austria with other countries internationally. I also believe that in the future we will need well-trained skilled workers in Austria next to AHS-Maturants and graduates, graduates of specialized universities and universities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With all the excitement that may be present today, it is really about giving our children the best opportunities for development for the future. We should never lose sight of that. And the most important basis and the most important building block for good schooling is, on the one hand, a good training of all teachers, on the other hand, that we also have motivated teachers in schools. At this point all those who work motivated on the schools are a warm thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that it is already important – and our State Secretary Sebastian Kurzhat also made appropriate proposals – that all those who come to school need or receive appropriate German skills so that they can also follow school lessons. My colleague Marek has already pointed out very intensively what happened in the positive, on the one hand, and on the other, teacher service law, for example: The review ends next week on 25. September, and a review is to be taken seriously, that is to say, all opinions are really well-founded and to be discussed seriously. We need a balanced, differentiated and adequate education system for the future so that really all children can discover their strengths, but also their weaknesses. This requires freedom of choice in schools, but also self-determination for schools. [[Abg. May. And parents!]] A good schooling starts in the folk school. It is about the fact that the basics for computing, reading and writing are really taught in the public school. If you think about the next level, then I think we have really good conditions with the New Middle School or with the maintenance of the gymnasia. For us in the ÖVP, it is clear that we will continue and want to maintain our constitutionally safe differentiated school system in the future. We have no access to single-breed, this is firmly rejected by us. We from the People's Party stand for diversity instead of simplicity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: It's less and less claping!]] We are absolutely opposed to forced happiness, which unfortunately in recent weeks have been very intensively proposed by the red, but also by the green side. With this access to the educational debate, which is constantly being brought in here by red and green, we have nothing to do with it. And it's quite clear: If the ideas that are collated in the SPÖ and spread by high-ranking officials – as expressed by the President of the City School Council and then declared by the mayor of Vienna as a vision of the future – are to send children committed to kindergarten from the first year of life, this does not mean anything good for our education system. We're against compulsion, we're against premeditation. And what the SPÖ and the Greens want is far away from the reality of the families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are very clear about freedom of choice. [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: That you give up for such a thing!]] Another open word on the SPÖ proposals: All those who don't want to send their children to a full day school are supposed to send them to a private school. A restricted all day school means no more and no less than that music school lessons are over at 3 p.m. or football training. We already confess that there is a need for afternoon care – all day schools, where there is a need and it is decided accordingly in the Joint School Forum. That means, for us, school partnership is important in the future, as that corresponds to the reality of the families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a high-quality school offer, even for a full day school, needs appropriate framework conditions, and you can't easily create them, but they have to be created where you need them; therefore: Freedom of choice and self-determination! I think the need in the SPÖ must be relatively large when employees of the city of Vienna make broadcasts, for example, to the public libraries with election recommendations for the SPÖ. There must be a relatively large need. In summary, school policy: We from the EIA are quite clear about diversity and against simplicity or unity, we are for freedom of choice instead of forced happiness. And so many reports from the past few weeks, especially in the field of education, prove that there needs to be a change of direction in the government. It needs a chancellor change to Michael Spindelegger.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4167	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied has reported on a statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4188	Mr President. Mr President, I have now spoken spontaneously, because I want to clarify something. I would like to make it clear what social democracy means by freedom of choice when we speak of day-to-day schools. Freedom of choice means being able to choose between variant A, half day school, and variant B, a full day school. This means that there must be a supply-oriented education policy, with a genuine freedom of choice, where parents can choose between two alternatives and not vote results. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is freedom of choice for us. As you have addressed the music schools or sports clubs: They were there when we discussed the great issue of cooperation in the 15a Treaty with the sports clubs with the artists here in Parliament. [[Abg. Rädler: The Brandsteidl too!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] It is our way of integrating it, including it. That is why I ask you to present this correctly. This is the concept of SPÖ on the whole day school: a supply-oriented policy with a real future perspective.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4232	Mrs Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4253	Mr President. Dear ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! A somewhat heated debate has already been triggered here. Mrs Bundesminister, very briefly to your spontaneous opinion, in which you said that you would like the freedom of choice: In my home country of Vienna, there is a city school councillor Brandsteidl, who also wants freedom of choice, namely freedom of choice, to introduce the kindergarten from the first year of life. – So much for the SPÖ's freedom of choice. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] If this is the freedom of choice, Mrs Bundesminister, whom the SPÖ is talking about, I can only say: Good night, Austria! - Oh! [[Federal Minister Dr. Schmied: This is a single opinion!]] The Federal Minister has just pointed out that the opinion of the President-in-Office of the Council is a single opinion. But I'm just excited about how this will develop in Vienna. I haven't heard that before. Now, suddenly, after weeks, you'll come to the conclusion that this is a single opinion of the Vienna City School Council President. Such an outrageous person is not the lady that you will only get there now, and after all, Vienna is the largest federal country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And the Vienna school system is entirely in the arrogance, Mrs. Minister, and you know that too. I am all the more horrified that the ÖVP Vienna has, of course, long taken out with you that the entire school will come. It has also said the head candidate of the Vienna ÖVP, Mrs Jank, that the entire school can come, she wants her. By the way, it's nothing new, she hasn't said it for the first time this year. As early as 2011, Mrs Jank said that of her at the overall school no categoric No coming, in 2012 she then said she wished for an all day school, and now she wants the total school again. This makes the Freedom Party the only party in Vienna, which still stands for a differentiated school system, especially in the Federal Capital, especially where we have the whole, very big problems. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] If you today, colleague Walser, compare the Hermagor district, where only 2% of all students go to a gymnasium, with Vienna, where there are 80 to 90 percent, then I tell you that there are sharp differences. In the Hermagor district you have the lowest percentage of foreigners throughout Austria. In the city of Vienna you have the highest percentage of foreigners throughout Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that's why all the children in Vienna are going to the gymnasium and everyone is pushing. It's not like that comes from about. As an example, I call a folk school – I am not yet talking about the primary schools or the new cooperative secondary schools – in a Vienna district with two children with German mother tongues at about 180 students. Two children with German native language! Now I admit, perhaps not all 178 will be completely without German knowledge. But if you look at how it continues and how many 14-year-olds and 15-year-olds leave the primary schools that still can't be German, you'll figure out what's going on. And there you have failed, you have simply failed! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the real reason why you want to play your ideological games of total schools here: because you know exactly that high schools have long since become ghetto schools in many locations in Vienna. That is against foreigners what you are doing, Mrs Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and also of the Greens, because you are supporting this. And tragically, this promotes the ÖVP Vienna and is now still actively demanding it in this election campaign. This is against the people in this country and against the young people in this country, because these young people have no chance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Secretary of State of Vienna can ask in brief what he would like to demand if it is not implemented, it puffs like a bubble of soap. Where are the German Festival Tests in Vienna? And where do I find the children who are promoted in German before they can enter the regular classes? – There is no such thing as de facto! We have not, this has not been introduced, and it will not be implemented whether or not you have announced that it will be implemented in Vienna. Nothing happened. Instead, the individual opinion of Mrs Brandsteidl, President of the City School Council, then says that the children should go to kindergarten at the age of one year. I would like to stress once again: It's just a single opinion. I am just wondering how long this individual opinion remains, because in Vienna I have not heard any contradiction yet, and, Mrs Bundesminister, as far as I know, you also come from Vienna. I would have expected you to respond immediately, but you didn't do that at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, very briefly to you, because you are already playing a little bit of a wrong policy here: On the one hand, you stand here, your speakers yell at an overall school, rise above everything, and claim that there will be no such thing as the ÖVP. On the other hand, together with the SPÖ, you have introduced the draft law on common service law. A joint training of all teachers means the step into the overall school – the same training, the same education for all children. And we hear from the countries that Members of your group are completely desperate and say: This has long been unspoiled, and after the elections the general school is coming, we can no longer defend ourselves against it. Please, at least stay hard on her! You are the only ones we can rely on and to whom our conservative voters can still rely. – That's what it looks like in the ÖVP. Well, behind the scenes, you've taken all of this out for a long time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that's why it's a little surprising that a Vienna MP of the ÖVP, Mrs Marek, is making himself here and telling anything. Obviously, she does not know what is being spoken in Vienna. It obviously has no further idea that the Wiener ÖVP has long approached the SPÖ so much and wants to approach the Greens much more that there should be no more differentiated school system in Vienna. In Vienna, we are the only freeman. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Great!]] The ÖVP in the Western Länder has long called for this. That is why I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: Take good care of what you're asking for today. The voters are not so stupid, they are not tottered. You will read the newspapers and also hear the interviews with your country leaders in Salzburg, Tirol, Vorarlberg, but now also with your Vienna top candidate. This has caught you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You've decided the entire school long ago behind the scenes. You're just trying to delay it until after the election, so that your voters won't be allowed to go any further. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only ones who still stand for a differentiated school system in this Republic are we, that is the Freedom Party. There will never be an overall school with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4382	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Musiol. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4404	Ladies and gentlemen! Women Ministers! I am not sure now whether I should really be happy to have been a witness to this blue-black marriage proposal, especially with such emotion presented, but some things do not keep us away. [[Abg. Head: That was rather the submission of the divorce suit!]] I really don't want to stop what you said before, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, but one thing is already right here. Although it was a nice attempt to carry on your favorite employment of foreigners here in this House and in the debate on education, you should know very well if you are already spreading about education, as is actually the case with linguistic problems: One third of the children in which linguistic defects are identified are not children with migration backgrounds, but their so-called Austrian children. [[Abg. May. Inconsistency: Because they don't learn that anymore in school!]] That is to say, it is not only a problem of children with migration backgrounds, but it is a problem of our education system, regardless of the origin of children. Take note of this and do not twist the facts! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There has already been a great deal of talk about what has been done in education policy. I have also seen progress in this debate, namely that apparently everyone has finally realized that education does not only start in school, but already in kindergarten. [[Abg. May. Inconsistency: With parents, in the family! That's education, too!]] That was not the case five years ago when I moved into this house. There the educational debate was debt debate and the kindergartens were nursing facilities. Now we have finally achieved what has been said for years by experts and also by Greens that it is clear that education is already beginning in kindergarten. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Schmied! It is all the more strange that you have spoken about teacher service law here today – my colleague Walser has already mentioned this – that teachers' training has often been spoken about, then you have corrected and talked about the education of teachers. However, what is actually contained in these laws is that the pedagogues of elementary pedagogy – i.e. the kindergartens, the cribs – are missing. This is a massive defect that needs to be corrected. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not enough to make any announcements and promises about elections. Almost before the beginning of the election campaign, before the summer, it was suddenly announced that we would like to put more money into the expansion of our childcare – in the expansion of our child rearing, I would have formulated. The ministers of ÖVP and SPÖ have formulated it differently. It has been announced that every year €100 million has been used for this, something that we have long called for, what we could have done for five years, and what, as Mr Walser has already done before, would have brought us to the fore in various rankings and what we would have done completely differently in the educational debate, especially in the elementary educational debate, when we do it now. They all know: In 2010 we should have achieved certain training/care rates. What have we achieved? – That we will achieve the quotas set by the EU, namely, 33 percent for the under-three years, at the earliest 2018/19, if not later. And we have not yet talked about quality places for education. There's still a lot to do. We have not yet discussed the fact that we have established uniform standards throughout Austria as regards the opening hours as regards the training of educators as regards the size of the group as regards the opportunities for teachers to attend further education, to have time for parental work. These are all topics that were of course also the subject of teacher service law. We haven't reached all of that yet! Mrs. Minister! I think it is a great measure of producing and saying that we have a lot to do with this, and we are going to do so, because over the last five years we have regularly talked about the uniform education standards in the field of kindergartens and elementary education. All parties have said that this is necessary. Just, it wasn't implemented, it wasn't decided. Every time our motion for a vote has come, the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP, who had previously said that it would be important, which they say again now in the debate, would not stand up. They'll be on the 29th. September not to be measured by what you announce, but you will be measured by what you have implemented. And in this case, you didn't do much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4494	The next speaker was Mrs Haubner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4515	Mr President. Ladies ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I quote: “The greatest danger to Austria’s future is from a policy that does not find the strength to face the homework and to pursue its goals with consequence, determination and tenacity.” – This is a quote from Hannes Androsch from his book “The End of Comfort”. I think it would be impossible to better describe the policies of red and black throughout and in many sub-areas. This is particularly true of the education and school policies of the last five years. [[Abg. Rädler: Mr Androsch is of this opinion!]] In education and school policy, there are plenty of concepts, lots of expert proposals. Some, Mrs Federal Minister, have also implemented you together with us, but the big goal, the big pieces are missing or have not been attacked. What's the reason? – The only reason for this is that party-political and ideological bonds both at ÖVP and at SPÖ prevent and inhibit these future investments for our children. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Ist-Situation is well known. We have a school system in which a lot of money is invested, €15 billion in the budget. Most of it is used for personnel costs and administration. We have students who are mediocre to bad. I do not want to focus on basic skills now. However, I would like to point out once again to our BZÖ demand, which has been raised for years, that after the 9. In other words, after completion of compulsory schooling, more necessary than ever need a proven education degree, which also signals young people: You are not only mature for life, but you are also mature for the labour market, for vocational training. The money is parked in an overarching administration, in multi-tracks, in party-political bodies and is missing wherever it is really used: in classrooms, in equipment. There is a lack of additional funding. Just think of the high cost of reparation, which only wealthy parents can afford. And there is now also a lack of appropriate equipment with educators and educators. Many go to retirement. Some students have to come to classes, and this is also at the expense of free items that may not be kept and completed. We have the two major construction sites of the reform of the school administration. For a year, the BZÖ has repeatedly submitted an application for reform of the school administration. He's being laid ad acta over and over again, being postponed. Mrs. Federal Minister! They always say in great honesty and Openness: That is not feasible at the moment. This is probably not feasible at the moment with the coalition partner, but also not with the countries. And it simply can't be in the future. There cannot be national interests over the interests of our children. Is that what we want? - We don't want this from BZÖ! As our clubman Josef Bucher said, the point is: How is schooling established in legislation and enforcement? It must be transferred to the League. If that doesn't happen, then we will never get out of this dilemma and then party politics in the various coloured countries will always stand above the interests of our young people. We also abolished the so-called District School Councils at one of the last meetings. We from the BZÖ were the only ones who did not agree, because it was not a reform. It's a kind of district school council light now. They are referred to as regional foreign offices of the Council of State Schools. And if you think of a regional foreign office of the Council of State Schools, there is nothing change in the partisan propaganda. The colleges remain composed according to the last country election. And then I wonder, What is this reform? This is more eye-catching, a bluff, so that, after five years of government work, we have reformed a little in the school administration. I am also surprised that the Stronach team, which today wants to be so attacked with regard to party policy in the school administration, has agreed to this proposal of reforming the district school councils. It is also no longer contemporary to have a school-spraying. I know there is no longer any such thing in Vienna and the Burgenland, but in all the other federal states this is still the case. And I have to say, I don't want to be a mother, I don't want the mayor or municipal representative to decide where my child goes to school. This freedom, this freedom of choice, have the parents and no one else. Much has already been said about teacher service law. Mr. Mayer! I don't believe that we're doing the bag so fast – I know that was a popular word, especially from you in the past few years. It's a good gag, I say now, to send it on the trip. You all know, however, that the next legislative period will start from the beginning. It will not continue in this sense. And I say that's irresponsible. It is not only irresponsible to the children that this is always the main discussion, it is also irresponsible to those teachers who are really engaged and working well, who are really suitable for this educational profession and who actually want to have the time to get along with the children, with the young people. And that they must always justify themselves that they work a lot, that they do something, that must now finally stop. Therefore, our demand: Framework working time, framework working time with precise definition of tasks. And for those teachers who do more that carry out additional tasks, this achievement must also be rewarded and rewarded better. So, uniform teacher's right, but not all of them are about a comb, because, as in every sector, there are particularly hardworking, particularly engaged and those who do their services only according to their requirements. Mr Lugar compared the school to a so-called production site. They said that there are students or people being produced. So I find that kind of adventurous. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I think that school next to the family is a very, very important habitat in which the children have the right to receive the best possible training in a modern and individual class, a living space in which they can also learn their talents successfully and where they can also successfully obtain a degree. And they also have a right to the best teachers in this habitat. And it's not a production site. Therefore, there is a need for a change of direction in education policy – not at all a question – but not, as Mr Prinz said, towards ÖVP, but it also needs a change of direction in education policy towards the modern center, as the BZÖ also understands. For in recent years, we from the BZÖ have always made it quite clear in our discussions what our main objective is, what we stand for, what we set the course for. And in this new legislative period, it simply needs an alliance of education reasonables, I say now, and an alliance of future willings. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And if we create this alliance, we put the interests and opportunities of future generations at the centre and nothing else. For Austria cannot afford it, and each one of us cannot afford that young people continue to be the losers of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4576	The next speaker was Mrs Schenk. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4597	Mr President. Women Ministers! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the previous speeches, it is quite clear that: Thank you, sit down, not enough, at least because of some of the passages that have been made here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The figures, data and facts speak for themselves. Our urgent question to Mrs Minister was well justified. There are problems in school. They admitted it, too. It is also, of course, true that some things have changed wherever we voted. There have been improvements. But it is still that there is a great need for action. If you look at the fact that a quarter of the compulsory school leavers cannot read meaningfully and can't write, then that's already an alarm sign, ladies and gentlemen. The party book economy – the party book is still considered the most important teaching material in the Austrian educational system, and it cannot be. You have also said here today, Mrs Minister, that you are in favour of depoliticizing the school. So you're on our side or we're on your side, depending on how you like to see it. However, it is not a good sign or a good indication to hear that Chancellor Faymann is planning to redeem you, and his compagnon, or whatever State Secretary Ostermayer may call, is already in office as Minister. He wants to replace you because you are ready for further improvements in the school area and are also ready to depoliticize the school. That is what we expect, and I would like to thank you at this point. However, we must not look away; we must also look at and discuss the problems. That every fourth student needs further assistance, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, is another warning sign. It has already been mentioned by education expert Andreas Salcher. I would like to quote from an interview he gave recently, in which he said: I have received e-mails in which parents write to me that they spend between € 5 000 and € 7 000 per year for assistance. - Quote. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! € 5 000 to € 7 000 Substantial costs per year! That's crazy! This cannot be financed, and it must be countered, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The poor students, the poorly trained students who are unable to read and write meaningfully, are the unemployed of tomorrow. Mrs. Minister! I would also like to read to you at this point a quote from the Minister for the Interior. She said: In police recording tests, spelling and grammar were the biggest obstacle. 50 percent fail, and only around 20 percent manage to join the police service. - Quote. My dear Mrs. Minister! It is also a sign that there is a great need for action. Party Accounting: The parties must leave school. I have a question to ask you about this. Perhaps you'd answer that later on and make a statement again. It concerns the BIFIE managing directors, i.e. the two chiefs. One of you has been released, and the Disciplinary Board in the Chancellor's Office has now confirmed that he has been unjustly released. I would have liked to know now from you how you intend to proceed here, what Their next step is or how the ministry will react to it. I am also curious about how the voting behaviour of Red and Black will be here today, especially by Red; for your Federal Managing Director Darabos has in an issue of 16. This vote will be left open in September. He thinks you're going to look at what the team Stronach is bringing in. A decision on teacher service law was still possible before the election. So I'm really excited if you follow your Federal Managing Director, whether you want to decide a service right for the Austrian teachers, which is the same for all, and whether you can join us with our request here. I shall now make the said request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution has not only been tabled by our team Stronach and me, but it is also a task of the electorate outside, which we meet every day at information events, at school discussions, at stand-alone actions wherever, and who say to us: It is an insanity to negotiate a uniform teacher's right for twelve years and not to do so. They just don't understand that! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I don't understand. I would ask you to agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4707	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4777	Mrs Mag. Grossmann. 4 minutes of speaking time are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4798	Mr President. Ministers! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I want to hold right at the beginning: Never has there been so much progress in education in Austria as under Minister Claudia Schmied! That's what happened at the beginning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] And the more intense condition that we are in coalition with a party that has become the Mikado principle of Mr. Neugebauer: Whoever moves first has lost! Mr Amon, respectively, lives by the motto: [[Abg. Neugebauer: Be careful,!]] We are for progress as long as everything stays with the old. This does not make it much easier to make politics. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] Nevertheless, in hard bone work and tough rings, it has succeeded in setting educational standards for the majority and the budget. The Minister has already explained in detail: The New Secondary School. Initially branded as a red devil's work, there are these now almost comprehensive, and that, I say, is an intermediate step towards a common school. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] The Minister has generally dealt with it quite skillfully and has, above all, sought and found the alliance of the countries in order to carry on. And it is already noted that the ÖVP in the countries is sometimes more progressive than here at the federal level. I have even experienced this as an educational councillor in Styria, where the reform partner ÖVP has been very successful in getting to a line in many areas where you still have some problems, for example when it comes to a real all day school. One thing is clear, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: For a freedom of choice, which is repeatedly propagated by many sides and which is quite understandable, it needs above all an option. We want to do this first and foremost, that is what it is all about. This option is not given, however, especially for parents, if you grant the teacher a veto right. Then this is a farce, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Marek: There is no single case where teachers would have prevented it!]] – For example, what does Mrs Marek say about at least one day in parallel classes? Then you have the freedom of choice. In the field of day-to-day forms of schooling, that is also said, there has been a great deal of progress in recent years. This is a common achievement that we can also be proud of together. But it is obviously still strange what it means to have a real common school, because you complain and regret there: Music lessons are out of place, also sports and what do I know? This is, of course, to be offered at school so that parents do not have to do daily taxi services, just as I had to do with my two sons, so that they can enjoy these offers. Especially in rural areas, it is very great if these educational opportunities exist in the context of a full-day school, of course also associated with a healthy lunch. The Minister is on the right track with many steps, even though it is mainly about upgrading basic education. And as Mrs Musiol is expected to escape the fact that the educational framework has also been sent on a journey during this legislative period and is also being lived, which is very successful. [[Calls to the Greens.]] There is a great deal to be done, of course, when it comes to the conditions in the educational institutions of children. This must be done together with the countries, because that is still a matter of country. One can discuss whether this is useful, but there is certainly still some need for action, especially in some countries. I find the main tenor of the staff of the Stronach team particularly strange. If you are talking about education in general in Austria, you will explore the statements of many personnel managers in many Austrian companies, such as the Magna Group, who always emphasize that the skills of employees are the advantage of the location of Austria. So the education system in Austria cannot be that bad either. And this qualification has been substantially strengthened in recent years by initiatives such as teaching with Matura, dual training, adult education initiatives. For for us, man is at the heart of us, and man is not a product and no committee goods at all, as you have articulated today!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4877	The next speaker was Mr Grossruck. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4899	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The discussion on education in general, but also here today, may be compared to the discussion about football: Everyone is a trainer and everyone knows how it is. But it's not that simple. It's best to think Mr. Lugar knows how it is. He has been here twice to explain to us what he thinks is education. But, Mr Lugar, after your speech, the Babylonian education confusion in the Stronach team is much bigger than it was before. Perhaps you can come out again and answer me a question about your request. [[Abg. Ing. Lugar: Enjoy!]] There's on page 2: “20 percent of students in Austria have basic competences in reading. In Finland and the Netherlands, the share is half that large.” – Now the question: [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Can you explain to us how you mean that? I didn't come. Mine You're positive or negative? It can also be said that the Finns and the Dutch are probably even worse than we are. That too can be interpreted in. – So much for discussion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe all of us are clear that education is important, that education is one of the most important things in life and that politics must create the framework conditions, the organizational conditions for education to be possible in appropriate quality. But, ladies and gentlemen, education is not only a debt to bring, but, I believe, education is primarily a debt. A big, good example: I remember my father. I was 11 years old. We were six children. The oldest was 13, the youngest was nine months old. My father is on the deathbed and told us: Buam, children, learns, learns, learns, for what’s in the head hobts, the kau’ eich called more nichta. And to my mother he said: Please allow them the best training possible. I think this statement is: “What d’ in the head host, kau’ da dunma”, could also be something like an assignment to education policy, namely to really continue training us, for which policy creates the framework conditions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am here last time at this speaker's desk. [[Calls: Next week]] I don't want to give you any advice as others might, but I just want to thank many people. I would like to say a clear thank you to my club, to Klubobmann Kopf, to Klubdirector Martin Falb for the support, to the many colleagues I am friendlyly associated with. I would also like to thank the President, Mrs Prammer, for allowing me to conduct the OSCE during the Presidency, with the best support I have had. I would also like to wish the President Neugebauer and the President Prammer all the best and good health! I would also like to thank the many friends I have here. I just want to mention a few. This is Christine Muttonen, with whom I really enjoyed the various trips, or also Toni Heinzl. One of my best friends here is Ollinger Karl. I would also like to mention this without wishing to harm you politically now, Karl. [[General hustle and bustle.]] But we have gone through thick and thin all over the world and have become really friends. An honest and deep friendship unites us. There are also many others. I would also like to thank Mrs. Schmied, namely, that she, together with her predecessor, has made it possible to build the largest school centre in Upper Austria at the time in my hometown of Grieskirchen, with an HTL and primary schools. This was only possible through contacts, through good contacts. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Amon and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I still have a lot to thank for. One thing I can mention is the Lukas Mussi from the International Service, who has always accompanied me and supported me professionally. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now coming to the end, with a threefold four-liner – the last time. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls.]] After I no longer candidise, I’m standing here for the last time with my very last rhyme, because after the session I’m going home. Almost 19 years have been sitting here, exciting and interesting. Some of the “strauss ” were also there at some point in time, as I can still remember. For the record I only add: without stupid ‘h’ the ‘can’. I didn't regret a day. It was very nice, I was very happy!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e4991	Mr. Wolfgang Großruck, also from this point of view, all the best and most importantly, the most important: Health you and your family! And thank you for your commitment! [[General condolences.]] Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann speaking. 7 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5035	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Appreciate spectators on the gallery and at home! Now we have been holding a very emotional and passionate debate on politics and school for about three hours: an educational debate. It's good that there were emotions and passions here, too. For there is hardly a better engine in all attempts to live a policy of affairs than with passion of this policy. It is therefore essential, especially for us in politics, to lead this passion in the right ways. That is why I am convinced that when we talk about the future of our youth, our children, we are talking much too closely about school, as the Stronach team has chosen. Because to address you specifically, Mr. Klubobmann Lugar, it goes a lot further. I now have an essential term in the overall discussion during these three hours: the families. That is why I see education as a huge cross-sectional matter, starting from youth policy on family policy, of course education itself, but of course also labour market policy and also economic policy, all of which must focus on how we can make our youth fit for the future as best we can. If I put it this way, it is an essential concern to say that it will be all the more important to live together in the area of education, youth and family policy when it comes to all the downtime that we have experienced in the last few years in the field of education policy. This is not only about considering structural reforms, but also about the important reform of service rights, but also about the need for all of us to make sure that we have the appropriate funds at our disposal. It is important to pay tribute to families and young people and to show that we do not, as previously practised by red, black and green, shift these funds to other European countries, give them and burn them in the sun of the south, in Pleite States, in highly speculative international banking structures, but that we invest these funds in our youth, in our families in education, in the social system, in the health system, in the economy, in the labour market, in security, in agriculture and in many other areas. Summary: It is about investing our Austrian tax money again in Austria for our own people, for our youth, and thus also bringing about a positive effect for the future, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, I am also extremely irritated, but it has been a revelation of the Stronach team, when, with this motion for a resolution presented by the colleague, Mr Schenk, it was explained that the Stronach team, which, as it has admitted itself, was not in any of the 33 rounds of negotiations on this right of service, has never been able to express its opinion like the other opposition parties, simply filed a request to bring any new law into the house and to agree without muh and moh. If this is not a clear revelation that you are the largest system party among the small parties and support this government policy like no other party here! So this may be your new access to transparency. We are also very grateful for this, dear colleagues from the Stronach team! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] We liberals, however, do not only understand political work as speeches or as red and black and their decades-old blocks of power, trade unions and alliances, the dispute that has been settled in a wide-ranging way. It is important for us to take action, prepare actions and implement them. I found here a beautiful quote from an internationally recognized manager, by Jack Welch. “Jack Welch says: If you have recognized something as right, then do it – and right away.” – And we liberals have some very concrete ideas about how we can do something about education, education and family policy. It is these ideas that result in the immediate implementation of a tax relief for our Austrian multiple-child families, namely through a new family tax model. These are ideas which mean immediate high-quality childcare and education in kindergartens and schools with a full-day possibility without financial additional burden for parents and immediate full choice for parents between work and family, namely through the possibility of a parent's salary. There is also a need for a quality offensive among teachers. This has been too little mentioned today, and I have mentioned this earlier with the economy which has also contributed accordingly: What are the problems for apprentices at the beginning, when they enter teaching, whether they are in Carinthia or all over Austria? – The fact that they do not usually dominate the basic competences and thus also act rather passionately in these companies. It is our responsibility to give them the corresponding armor so that they can enjoy the work, the teaching, the training, the education. Finally, I would like to make a fifth point in the time available to me. It will be necessary to immediately ensure that teachers are obliged to provide a free follow-up, especially during holiday periods, for they are not able to bring to the students all that is to be taught during the course of schooling. The holiday period is paid, the teachers are paid at this time, so they can also meet families and students accordingly and do valuable work for the future and development of the students, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, it is important to me to point out that we ourselves have the power to work with our policy, with a passionate policy – of course with contentions – to further develop Austria as a educational and family model country in Europe. This is a concern that is especially dear to us liberals. As a young family father, this is also a heart concern, and therefore I say: Dispute and blockade should belong to the past, the appreciation of our families and our children should belong to the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5144	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5166	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I must take this opportunity to thank Mr Wolfgang Großruck for the kind words he has addressed to me. I also thank him for the good cooperation. It would probably be very useful sometimes if many colleagues went on election observation together, because there is the possibility of political exchange and yet knowing the position of others with respect, but also continuing. That is exactly what I am on the issue of education reform. Education researcher Dr. Christa Kienne said something in an ORF interview two or three weeks ago, which I can only stress a hundred percent. She said: Those countries have been particularly successful in education policy and in education reform, which have managed to make the educational reform out of a cast. From a cast, that is, where it was clear what the educational goals are, what one wants to achieve together, where the journey is to go. That is not clear in Austria. In this context, Dr. Kenne also mentioned that there have been countless injuries in our country through these small tripple steps in the one direction and then back again, especially among teachers. The new service law you are proposing is a good example of this. You don't pick up the horse from the back, but you have to make it clear where the trip is to go. If we – and that is what I hope, even if it sometimes looks different – have a common interest in ensuring that our children are optimally promoted, each according to their talents, each according to their abilities, each according to their needs, then the school has to look different. However, there must also be common stages in how we can achieve this objective. You can't just stick to keywords and say: It's going very well in Austria, or what we now have is a wonderful step on the way to the goal! – if the goal is not clear. Let me also say a few words to Mr Marek, because I really found what she said. You really have to imagine this: If it were for the Member of Parliament Marek, Austria would be surrounded by a number of communist countries that do one thing: a forced-day kindergarten for all children, a forced-day school for all children, and which, of course, also prevent children from doing their leisure activities. If you believe what colleague Marek says, these are the countries that play at the county league level in football, while Austria is mixing in the top class of the world because of this great promotion in football and other talents. Unfortunately, this has nothing to do with reality as much as this accusation of Communism, which is quite grotesque in the face of the example of Finland or other Scandinavian countries, as is France. I suspect you know that too, but it is worth collecting a few points for a cheap game with the fear of Communism. You're making fun of yourself! You're making fun of yourself! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: The example was just as ridiculous!]] What we want and what we need, which is already lived in individual areas – but here inside the confession is missing – is a common school that brings together the strong and the weak, the thick and the thin, the intellectually particularly capable with the intellectually less capable children, but which brings together the disabled with unimpeded children – to which we have forgotten. However, a special school is really a scandal, and no one has so far talked about the fact that this scandal is actually being abolished urgently – not only because of the disabled children, but also because of the other children who are being postponed there. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I would like to give this to you, ladies and gentlemen. There must be a common objective and this common objective must be developed hard. Before this goal is not clear, however, you cannot take part in the journey, from which it will in no way be seen where the journey is to go and where it will go. That's piecework! I confess to anyone who has worked on this piece that he wanted his best, I like to admit to you, but the results are depressing and destructive. This also applies to the Stronach team, my dear ladies and gentlemen from the Stronach team. My colleague Harald Walser says the school can't leave a child, no one behind. The Stronach team must not be left behind either. If you already want to protest with your spelling skills or the knowledge of the Latin language you have used in your request – I quote the question: “condicio sin qua non” – then write it right! This is what one writes with “t. ” The school must also not leave the Stronach team behind. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5232	The next item is Mr Grosz. 5 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5254	High house! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Erich Witzmann, editor-in-chief of the press, took a wise look at the 6th edition of the press. September 2009, he wrote an editorial in which he wrote: “300 000 illiterates in the midst of us”, ladies and gentlemen. At least five illiterate illiterates have already been found among us, these are the Members Lugar, Markowitz, Schenk, Erich Tadler and Christoph Hagen. I congratulate you. [[Call the Stronach team.]] Our education system should actually be in the end if a parliamentary group in our House brings it together to bring ten serious spelling errors into a urgent request on nine pages. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: But this would also be grudging in a capacity-oriented form!]] The Federal Minister said that this parliamentary question was at least great from the author – obviously you did not read it properly either. The question is not addressed to you either, but to the Federal Minister for Education, Art and Culture – Mrs. Federal Minister in, ladies and gentlemen. For reading for the Stronach team: Where are the mistakes? “The share of performance in reading is three times higher in Finland, the United Kingdom and the United States than in Austria.” – I congratulate you on your grammar and spelling. In addition, ‘the responsible managing director’ on page 3 belongs to small cases – serious spelling errors! Page 5: “For the ÖVP, a former teacher trade union and school director will join the National School Council as the senior president.” The former Federal Minister Gehrer does not mean “Geher”, although she has left, she still says Gehrer. Ladies and gentlemen of the Stronach team, so much for the quality of your parliamentary inquiry. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, this is a little cynical now, but it is a matter of course if a group on education policy delivers a so-called not enough. I can stay with you in a moment, Mrs. Schenk. You said “sit,” I say to you again: Not enough to sit and sit, even for the next period. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donate.]] Ladies and gentlemen, education policy in Austria is too serious a subject for us to leave it in the last row of the Austrian Parliament! I also say that to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Stronach team! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In Austrian education policy and also in the use of this House, we have the unique problem that the Minister of Education is not sitting on the government bank, but in the first row of the Austrian People's Party. The contact person for education policy is the “Ministry of Building for Concrete Buildings”, the responsible President Fritz Neugebauer, who has been taking education policy in our country for years with his party political influence on trade union & co in hostage. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as long as trade unionists like Fritz Neugebauer dictate our education policy in Austria, we will continue to be able to lament over the next few years and decades that more than 20 percent of our Austrian students suffer from severe reading and writing difficulties. Even the teachers of our country – and I am telling you this, Mr President Neugebauer – did not deserve to be represented by you. That should also be said in this clarity! Ladies and gentlemen! Our problem in the education system is that the school administration is party-politically occupied. This is what we see at the forefront with powerful trade unionists and a minister who cannot prevail. We see this down to the national school councils and to the district school councils in which not the educational experts of our country have the say about the future of our youth, but party political officials of the individual country days and political parties. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Androsch!]] Therefore, as BZÖ we have repeatedly urged with Josef Bucher to finally abolish or depoliticize these district school councils and these national school councils. What happened, ladies and gentlemen? – You have abolished the district school councils here in the house, all of them together, except for the BZÖ. But you have not, in fact, abolished them, they are now simply called regional offices of the Council of State Schools. The administration, the proportion and the inflatation have remained the same, ladies and gentlemen, and a reform, a substantial reform in education has once again not been achieved. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We say: The school administration belongs in a hand, in the hands of the federal government. The Federal Legislator has to define the most important criteria and characteristics of an Austrian educational policy. We are not dictated by trade unionists, blockers and representatives of concrete fractions in Austria, how we can best prepare our Austrian students for the challenges. [[Abg. Csörgits: Go, go, go!]] For to whom do we take the prospects of the future in our country? – We take them to the generations who are our guardians. These generations we take every chance of the future! Mrs Bundesminister, I am not leaving you out of my responsibility either. They themselves have created a huge chaos in the education system with the central matura. I have only visited many school discussions in Graz, Styria in the last few weeks. The complaints of pupils and teachers about the central matura are correct. First you introduced the central matura in a night and fog action, then it was moved to a year. But I tell you, Mrs Bundesminister: To prepare students for a central matura properly, so that they all have the same opportunities to exist, at least one class generation is necessary – four or five years. That would have been useful. With your approach, you are damaging the prospects for the future at the workplace of students who currently have to put up with and suspend your chaotic central matura. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not excusable for us, that is unacceptable for us. We have excellent pupils in Austria. We have different young talents in our country, which need to be promoted in a differentiated way in our school system. We need to explain to our school system that we are promoting and not blocking the young people of our country. In our school system, we must make every effort to ensure that we do not introduce young people into an educational unit, but that we also promote the respective strengths of the individual student/student. Only then will we get well-trained young people and young people from school, which is also essential for our economic location. Yes, do you not hear, ladies and gentlemen, from the ÖVP, who are blocking this school reform in our country, your own President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl, who has repeatedly been around your ears that this economic location has been sent down? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Yes, it may also be true that the system has been sent down when the economy has been warning for years that those who come out of our education system are difficult to mediate in the free market economy. What to do With your blockade, do you want to give the young people whom we want to give the power of their own salary, of their own jobs, in which they are well trained for the general public, for the economy – also as taxpayers and as service providers – to work, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! There you look away The one looking into the newspaper, the next looks at the side seat... [[towards ÖVP]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the education policy that we are imagining. We have presented a successful education concept with Josef Bucher, and I am convinced that this will also be successful.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5418	The next item is the speech by Mr Hagen. 5 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5439	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! High house! He proved that Mr Grosz could not read meaningfully, otherwise he would have understood the substance of the urgent question. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Bravorufe der Abg. Donate.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's look at the matter! – The most important schoolbook in Austria is probably the party book, ladies and gentlemen. I believe, on the other hand, that we need a politically independent school, i.e. politically independent directors and independent teachers. The Stronach team has a good program, according to which the parents determine the directors. That means: The parents select the directors, and they then select their teachers. – I think that would be the first step towards depoliticisation of the school, towards reasonable teachers, suitable teachers who can then teach the children something. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the school is currently too politically occupied. That's what we see at all the school councils and what else we have. I believe that the qualification is often not the real criterion. Mr Elmar Mayer mentioned earlier in his speech that the quality of teachers is important, and that is what we see. That is the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen. And I would like to explain this to you by an example from Vorarlberg, where the quality of a teacher is guaranteed to fail. I'm talking about a middle school in Bregenz. Over three years, two thirds of the students had a spot in Mathe. Why do I bring this example now? – One of these students, who had a fifth in the second class, then changed the school. He then, also in the Bregenz room, came to another school, had another teacher there and then had a two in the witness that he had passed until he finished school. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore believe that it is necessary that unable teachers can be removed again, and this is very difficult for the present system. I would also like to mention a report by the ORF Vorarlberg, which ran a few weeks ago. In this report, a teacher was questioned in the canton of Zug in Switzerland, not far from the border with Vorarlberg. He said: In Austria, anyone who completes the educational college receives a job, a job as a teacher, regardless of whether he is qualified or not, whether he is capable or not. In Switzerland, this works like: You have to do a recording exam first. Whoever exists, gets two test years to teach, and if these trial years are positive, then you get a job that is also decently rewarded and well paid. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's not true! And with you, then, Mr. Stronach decides, right?]] I believe that teachers are being paid well, is a basic requirement for them to also perform their performance, and that is important, I believe. We have already talked about the need for parents to invest a lot of money in recovery. I don't think we can make the parents liable for the failure of the teachers. If you look at the situation a little bit, you see, there are a lot of teachers who give these follow-up hours and earn such a bread. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that's the wrong way. We need a rethinking in school policy here. We have heard several times today that 20 percent of students who come from school cannot read, write and calculate meaningfully. I think these figures show where the problem lies. And if the teaching firm that is supposed to take up this student, then this child, who has to teach this student the reading, the calculation and the writing, then something is going wrong in our system for a long time, ladies and gentlemen. We have also heard the example of Mr Schenk's example of the situation at the police school, the Gendarmerie School. That there are only 20 percent in German, ladies and gentlemen, this is an alarm signal. I think that education in Austria or school has completely failed. There's a man in need. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5491	Next, Mr Sacher. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5514	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies Federal Ministers! In today's debate we have seen what we have felt in the entire educational debate for years: Ideological killer phrases are applied to destroy any approach of commonness. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who?]] In today's debate, I have heard two such killers again. One killer's phrase is that of the "compulsory day school", the other of the whole school. Ladies and gentlemen! The real force, and I would like to say this to several political groups, is to impose the pressure on families and women to abandon the compatibility of families, children and occupations from this conservative image of education. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Killerphrase!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Killerphrase!]] That's your real compulsion, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Killerphrase! Killerphrase!]] I can now give you some examples of such ‘communist forced schools’ which you always mention. I'm telling you who's running these schools – you're going to get on with them, they're obviously "lupen-clean communists": In the Gaisbergstraße in Salzburg, a school with day care, a distinct sport focus, favoured by the large outdoor area – sports court, career, garden –; the whole school has been rebuilt in the past few years in the afternoon care. Do you know what school it is about? – To the Archdiocese Privategymnasium Borromäum of the Archdiocese of Salzburg. The Bishop of Salzburg, according to your version, is a Communist, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Riddler: Such a fool!]] I could give you more examples. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Killerphrase!]] For six years, the Freinbergstraße in Linz has been taught in restricted form. This pioneer in the Catholic school sector is the gymnasium and the Realgymnasium of the College of Aloisianum. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's where all the red beans go with their children, from the politicians! All Linz Reds have their children there! – This is the “best” example!]] . I could give you several such examples, because of "congratulation by school", ladies and gentlemen. [[Calls and calls between Deputies Dr. Rosenkranz and Mag. Gaßner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The era that is now drawing to a close was, in my view, one of the most successful in our group's view of education reform since Kreisky and Sinowatz. There is evidence of progress in many areas – I only repeat more –: Cross-cutting New Secondary School, Education New, kindergarten pedagogy, early pedagogy is being expanded. Also, please, the involvement of kindergarten teachers – a point on which criticism has been repeatedly expressed – is already starting. There are already offers for kindergarten teachers to make the Master's degree. The entire day's schools, all day care, were extended. And now again for all those who don't want to understand it, and in the election campaign they always want to hammer the opposite of it: We as Social Democrats want freedom of choice! Every second school in Austria is expected to have a full day offer. There can be no talk of Force! – This is a typical example of your electoral argumentation, and I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this will hopefully be different after the election. I could list examples of “typically communist” countries: For many years, South Tyrol has been a very successful joint school. Is South Tyrol a Communist country? Or Bavaria? I know what ‘CSU’ now means: ‘Communist-Social Union’, because in Bavaria, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, since 2002 or 2003, the number of all-day schools has multiplied from about 400 to 2 400. That should make us think. I could list a whole range of European countries in which all day schools and common schools have long been the reality – and they are all “typically communist” countries: Belgium, Finland, Great Britain, Ireland and, and what?- Oh, my God! – Dear ladies and gentlemen, let’s get down from these killer arguments! Back to the successful era of the Minister Claudia Schmied: We have introduced the new Matura, the education standards have been introduced, but above all the new joint teacher training, the re-maturity examination, the teaching with Matura, free repetitions of educational diplomas. – These are progress in reform, which we do not let go, ladies and gentlemen. In this sense, I am looking for a good, better common climate in future on questions of education reform. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5650	On a second speech, Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar in word. [[Abg. Grosz: This is the third!]] The remaining speaking time of the Group is 3 minutes. [[Abg. Ing. Lugar: Rules of Procedure!]] Mr Klubobmann Lugar spoke on the Rules of Procedure. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5697	I have read here in my documents and on the computer that Mr Neugebauer has spoken in front of me, and he has also been on the list before me. If you are going to preside over me now, just because Mr Neugebauer wants to speak for me, then this is clearly not in conformity with business rules – and I would like to point out now.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5716	For the sake of order, I would like to say that the report and the removal of speakers lies in the disposition of the respective clubs and of the Members themselves, and the President has no influence on it at all. If Mr Neugebauer has been removed from the list of speakers and you have an obsolete list, I cannot change that. On my monitor and on the current speaker list, you are still on the list with a second speech, and then Mr Elmar Mayer with a second speech. I now give you the floor. The remaining speaking time of the Group is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5755	Look, this is exactly the problem we have in this House: It's always been looked at here that you leave everything as far as you can. It is therefore necessary for one to make himself here and to address what is actually going on in this House, namely that we do not manage to address the problems of this country, and therefore we do not manage to do so because people like Mr Neugebauer and many others do everything so that everything remains the way it is. That is why I can only call on the Austrians, who are still watching: Think about whether you're after the 29th century. September has a government that does nothing but defend the status quo in this country with teeth and claws – just as Mr Neugebauer, many of the ÖVP and unfortunately many of the SPÖ do, not only since yesterday, but for decades. That's the point! And if the Electors out there have the feeling that we have to do something in this country at last, and now we have to give Parliament the role that it deserves, and not that of a purely voting machine for the government, which in the end only wants to remain in power, if the voters see it this way, then they should do something, and select this red-black government and create new majority groups, new majority in the House, so that we can finally do what is necessary in this country. This is a blow of liberation, a blow of liberation that is necessary – in the interests of Austria, in the interests of people outside and also in the interest of Members who, at least many of them, can no longer bear this standstill for decades. That's the point, and in the end you can't stop that with your pocket-player tricks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5786	For the only part of the order, I am now saying – so that there is no misunderstanding – that Mr Elmar Mayersich has been removed from the list of speakers and that Mr Fritz Neugebauer has now been reported to speak at 6 minutes' speaking time, which is also the general speaking time of the group. [[Rejoicing]] – This is often like betting: You have to have the better nerves while reporting for the speaker list. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: (in the direction of Abg. Ing. Lugar) Learn Rules of Procedure!]] Please, Mr Neugebauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5835	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated women Federal ministers! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Let me say a greeting at least politely! - Dear friend, now I'm listening to you. [[In the direction of an intermediate caller in the SPÖ series:]] Mr Lugar! No matter which government there is, the term of the speech remains in its place after the 29th century. October, as she is because she has proved herself, I think. I thank you very much for this subject, which I originally meant was the essence of education. And you have said thankfully that you are talking to colleagues on this page, with colleagues on this page, that these are all reasonable ones. [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards SPÖ]] – Since we have often talked to each other, I thank you for being one of the reasonable ones. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am with the Federal Minister when she says that an offensive educational policy requires a certain climate. And, ladies and gentlemen, we must thank many who contribute to the fact that central teacher personality can work effectively in a class. I would like to thank all parents who are interested in a good school environment, whether they are involved in bilateral discussions in the School Community Committee, in parent associations. They are an important partner of the teachership, which plays a central role here. I thank the taxpayers, and I think that the taxpayer will make so much money available for so long as there is a qualitative discussion also in the public about educational needs – with all differences. I would like to thank the politicians, the ministers and the ministers, who are downhill about those responsible in the federal, state and local authorities, and many committed mayors, who create the space for school to function properly. And I would also like to thank those who are responsible for the dissemination to the journalists, namely those in the quality newspapers that are deepening in the matter. The Boulevard, ladies and gentlemen, will not bring us the educational discussion and facilitate us. And I also add, Mrs. Federal Minister: If you feed the boulevard with ads over a fee, you must not be surprised that only a flat discussion comes about for education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I thank all the educators and educators who do great things, for all the school types. I have remembered that the Federal Chancellor – I believe, even with the Minister of Social Affairs – has broken up to the youth unemployment summit and has presented the dual system of our vocational training as the example that helps us to keep youth unemployment relatively low, compared to others. And there is a lot of what we win in other schools in European and international competitions. The school does not have to be mistreated. Success stimulates success. We don't need to interpret extensively, but I think we can be proud of the achievements of our students. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, it has been noted several times that our colleagues in school are affected by a discussion that they believe does not recognise the value of the performance accordingly. I urge all my colleagues to be aware that they are exercising a high-quality craft, which must also be carried out professionally. We have done this together – and there's a lot of money behind it – by introducing a new, qualitative teacher training, an equivalent but not similar teacher training at Master's level. This is, among other things, a point that we naturally need to anchor in service law, which is not satisfactorily resolved. Another point is – because such a project needs an comprehensible reason – that, of course, we need more qualified day care due to changed social conditions. We should not miss the opportunity – with all the criticism of detail – to grant schools autonomy, to be able to work in annual working time models to carry out their own distribution of the respective working hours. I am very happy that in recent weeks and months, the issue of education has focused on an essential area that has been neglected a little, that is the area – which is actually every success – of language. Language is about every educational institution. There is no need to look at Humboldt – man becomes man only by the language – but whoever today as a student does not master the teaching language, this deficit drags down for years, if not for decades. [[Bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, is about finding appropriate measures to focus more on the findings of early childhood education than before. These are two topics with mega-tasks, and we will do this properly. And I think that we – and this is not only true of the teachers, that is also true of the colleagues in the executive and in the administration – have said as a union: This system dates back to 1956. At that time the Republic had little money. The initial references were thin, later they were more attractive. Today we need the money with the boys. We must be competitive, whether in the field of executives, administration or teachers, in order to get the good for these areas as well. Mrs. Federal Minister! It won't be enough for us to say it costs too much in the beginning. We have shown this in many areas, such as the Lower Austrian and Upper Austrian national services: This investment is important, especially in the field of public services and also in the field of teaching. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These are the motives of our colleagues from the trade union – and this is not “the Lord Neugebauer”, since too much of the honour has been done to me, but these are unanimous decisions of the social-democratic trade unionists, the independent trade unionists, the Christian trade union group dealing with these issues. What did the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor, say in October as an comprehensible reason for teacher service law? – “In order to get money for school reforms, we need a new teacher service right with a flatter pay curve and higher hourly commitment.” – That’s what happens to the boys coming in 2019! To clean up the boys and say there, more work for less money – ladies and gentlemen, these are slogans of past decades. [[Federal Minister Dr. Schmied: Wrong!]] And the next point is that you, Mrs. Federal Minister – that is not an attack on your person, but against a subject – said a few days ago, of course, your draft service law is one aimed at the general school. It's a good thing to argue about. Since the Constitution of 1920 it has been disputed. But this school form does not exist. To base a right of service for something one might wish for, but that there is not in reality, that is a difficult undertaking. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am very much in favour of conducting educational discussions with enthusiasm and good arguments. There are always debates on school organisation on this subject. And whoever reads the Hattie study – you quoted it, I think, Mr. Deputies – is a summary of several hundred studies, which is quite clear that the form, the form of organization is not really the most important, but the position of the one who works in it. Mr Bucher, who is unfortunately no longer here, asked in his speech why the union is interfering in everything. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] Do you give me two, three minutes for my last speech?
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5923	Unfortunately, we have to comply with the Rules of Procedure, but a final sentence always goes out.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5939	A final sentence is still pending. – I have had a very prominent teacher, Helmut Zilk, who has always told us at the teachers’ school, there is a stupid saying: Every human being is born as original, but most die as copies. As a teacher, you have to provide for the individual care and instruction of the students, for individual access to the individual gifts, then you will ultimately also be successful. That's my last speech. I have no teaching to give, I have a request to you: You all know here that education and democracy are inseparably linked in this place. And I think that if you are to be re-elected, what I congratulate you for, and all those who are coming new, you must be aware that you are an important part of political education here in your discussion. More young people are watching than we believe. Hard on the matter, fair to people – we can make an important contribution. I wish you every possible good with a warm trade union happiness!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5974	A special meeting will be held next week. We'll all see each other again. And afterwards, maybe one or the other will not be there anymore. But we now have a speaker with a fractional speaking time of 1 minute to his second speech. This is Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e5998	Mr President. Ladies, ladies and women. Mr Neugebauer! I have also spoken spontaneously about this because I did not actually expect your conciliatory final chord, but because you would leave your quote that the draft of the new teacher's law would be a "smart" here again. You didn't. I mean, that's also good and important, because you said yourself in your summary: You have to look ahead. The next generation of delegates must decide responsibly here. I would like to thank you personally, I believe, also on behalf of our group, for your work, especially as Chairman of the Public Service Trade Union. You have done your job as chairman of the union for public servants, as I mean, excellent. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My request to you is as follows: Be aware of your responsibility in future negotiations when it comes to new service law! In addition to the very much mentioned change in educational education, the right to serve is a crucial factor in that we can really motivate young men and women to take up this teaching profession in the future. [[Call the ÖVP: We know that!]] You got it in your hand. What we have sent as a government expert is intended to help open up opportunities for young people. And you can make a significant contribution to the fact that this actually goes over the stage as quickly as possible. I wish you a good hand, good luck and, above all, the strength to jump over your own shadow. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6049	Mr Brosz has also spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The total residence time of your group is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6071	Mr President. Mr Lugar, look, it's quite simple: If you have observed Mrs Steibl as a folder and you have seen that she has moved to the speaker's desk here and to the list, you know, there's another word message coming. And if you watch out, you can wait until the Lord has spoken to Neugebauer, and then report to him afterwards. But you might learn that in here, too. It is good to say that one cannot buy speaking times, and one last speech by Mr Neugebauer was appropriate. I would also say that there is respect from our side for you, especially in your role as President of the National Council. This is the function in which we have experienced you in particular, especially because you have exercised a very evocative way of presiding, because you have not adhered to certain requirements in which exactly there is a call for order, but have done so in a form that was very worthy of the House. You should also respect the Green Group. [[Congratulation with Greens, SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Today's debate on it surprises me, which moth boxes have been repacked in the last two, three, four days. We see constituency posters, where the forced kindergarten is spoken from the first day on. This will lead to a debate which has a very real background, namely the demand for a second compulsory kindergarten year, because if we know exactly that the children who are not in kindergarten at this time, between four and five years, are a very small percentage, those who need it most, then we see that this would be a form of education promotion to give them a chance. This is a duty to make, as you argue, I do not think legitimate. You may also be aware of the difference between a legal claim and an obligation, by the way, for school forms throughout the day. It's about everyone having a right to a full day school. [[Abg. Head: Mrs Brandsteidl said something else!]] – Am I the woman Brandsteidl? Why do you place red-green when the woman Brandsteidl speaks anything that no one represents of the Greens? [[Abg. Head: The head too!]] That's deeply unscrupulous. This is not a form of serious politics. Placate what real thing is, but not any arguments! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Let's place Ernst Strasser when it goes on! Karl-Heinz Grasser!]] A whole day school needs it for anyone who wants to take advantage of it. That's the minimum effort. And it's not reasonable that those who need a full day school don't get anyone because someone agrees that there should be no such thing. So freedom of choice means: It must also be offered. I do not understand that the EIA continues to prevent these things, which should be of course. It is not the requirement that now, everywhere in Austria, from one day to the other, the whole day school is introduced across the board. It is the claim that there is a legal claim. And if Mr. Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger in election confrontations designs pictures that one can then go from eight o'clock in the morning to seven in the evening, I think, going to school, probably in 50 minutes units, at half past eleven the lunch and otherwise nothing changes in schools, then I wonder: Which world do you live in? – The debt picture, which is modernly represented, looks different. And a whole day school would have a chance to get away from these pointless 50 minute blocks. Each educational researcher will confirm that the seventh and eighth hours in this school system are largely worthless, because nothing goes into the head when you get caught in 50-minute blocks. I do not understand why in 2013 we are not so far away that we can take a step and say: Let's see the basic knowledge! Let us try to see that children may also have a greater success through promotion with less time to learn. No one can care that 20 percent, 15 percent of students, no matter how much, cannot read meaningfully at the end of compulsory schooling. You have to say, there are problems in the school system. So maybe after the choice of getting that far, it's possible to say: Let us take note of the needs, let us move away from the other questions and, above all, from these moth boxes, and let us see that we are education policy of the 21st century. By the 19th century!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6142	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Lugar, colleague and colleagues on the government template Service law Novelle 2013 – Educational service. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a signal. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[14:47:11]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6181	We are now entering into a short debate. The short debate concerns the request made by Mr Scheibner, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 2177/A by Mr Cap, Head, Members of Parliament on the package of democracy, a period of time until 24. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6215	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Just to remember because the summer break was long and you may have forgotten it again: This proposal concerns an important project that the government parties have set themselves at the beginning of the legislative period and which we have tried to support with all our conviction and best, namely the so-called democratic package, especially when it comes to the instruments of direct democracy and to improving them. At the beginning of this period, as with many other projects, we had very intense debates, had our own working groups, subcommittees – and it even went a little further. This is also the case in the European There has been good discussions in the field. As so often, it was felt that all those who sit in these working groups really want to have a result. – Yes, the colleague Cap nodds. Thank you. The only problem was that this issue seems to have been seen somewhere else, possibly outside of this House, in the party headquarters or in the government offices, and then – I say carefully now – there has been two or three years' standstill. And we should remember that here again. Federal Chancellor Faymann recently said in an interview that this government was so active and had achieved so many positive things that on the election day one should already consider whether one would not want to further order this positive coalition between Red and Black, for the alternative would be chaos. Ladies and gentlemen! We have now seen it again in the educational debate: This cooperation was not so positive and so constructive, as the two themselves did not want to work constructively together. And the mood is still the best, as one also recognizes by the calls, not the best. But at any rate, we did not have these results, which all of us and the electorate in particular expected from this great coalition – even with regard to the democratic package. I remind you: One of the objectives was to at least reduce the number of Members here in the House to 165. We from the BZÖ had another proposal, namely to reduce the number to 100. There was no more talk about this, because red and black have thought about it: No, we do not want to, because that may be the issue of our own mandates. Then one has made a request – and this is what it is about now – to use citizens' desires to enable online support for popular desires. This is actually something positive, but as it has been implemented, not again, because it would have favoured only a small part of the electorate. What was completely missing was the appreciation of popular desires. You know, we, too, have in our programme – and I believe everyone else, too; there have been unanimous requests – that if a popular desire is particularly successful, people's voting should be carried out with 400 000 signatures from our point of view. There were also intensive, very constructive consultations. We then carried out surveys and hearings. Later on, you saw: There are constitutional problems when there is a so-called national legislation – without Parliament’s involvement – in our constitution. That is why we have tried to make a constructive proposal: Well, if this is not the case with the referendum, then at least one should attach a non-binding poll if a popular desire was successfully carried out and supported. Mr Cap – and I really want to admit that to him – has said quite offensively that he does not hold very much about the extension of this instrument of direct democracy, because he is a follower of representative democracy. That's me, too. I say: Direct democracy should not replace, but complement and support parliamentarianism and parliamentary democracy. And I think that this proposal to at least question the people in a successful popular desire is good. There, politics must be so self-confident to say: Yes, we take note of this as a basis for decision, but the decision remains here in Parliament. The ÖVP has said: Yes, wonderful! There is the programme by Mr Kurz with all possible things, how important it is, it will be introduced and will be discussed. However, this has not been found in the government's requests. Mr Cap said again: Well, the opposition is supposed to present something – probably hoping that we will not bring it together. And then three parties have found themselves: the Greens with Mrs Musiol, the Liberals with Mr Stefan and the BZÖ with me, with the support – and I would like to say this again positively – of the Parliamentary Directorate. It was important that we have also shown – regardless of who it is – that we here in Parliament try not only to pass on a law but also to establish that a law is really created and created here. And that was, I think, very positive. We've presented this. Unfortunately, the greens jumped shortly before the end, I was very sorry. You have been caught – perhaps not you, Mrs Musiol, but your party secretariats and strategists have had to do with a draft of the government parties, but they have had absolutely nothing to do with promoting direct democracy. The limits for a popular desire, resulting in a popular survey, were so high that this probably had little prospect of success. You've been there. Unfortunately! They've been shaved out. The Liberals and the BZÖ have remained in this request. I have already predicted that this will no longer be decided during this legislative period, because in reality the government does not want to do so. It was just about winning time, until you say, I'm sorry, it's not going to happen anymore. And that's exactly what happened. There has been a review that has been annihilated for this draft government. And now you're saying, Well, time's too short. Unfortunately, it's not going to go out anymore. Since, Mr Kopf, I also recall that I warned that the last legislative decision will be taken at the beginning of July and that the Austrian National Council will not now adopt itself on holiday, but at least the next law may not be adopted until the end of November or the beginning of December. These are five months, therefore, when this Austrian National Council does not take a single legislative decision at an important time when it would be necessary to decide and discuss many important reforms. At the time, we called for a clear programme for regular national Council meetings. You said: If something is up-to-date, we will apply for special meetings independently. – There was no such meeting. For us, however, this democratic package is important. [[Abg. Head: For us too!]] We have also made this request further. - Yes, for you, too. All right, Mr. Kopf! Then we'll give you the opportunity: Voices You must submit this request for a deadline! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We will work day and night – until next week. Let us still try to bring together a joint request for a joint decision at the next special meeting! That's our initiative. That would be important. And I tell you quite clearly, too: This is not the only project that has been pushed to the long-term bank: also the administrative reform. Permanently, we are presumptuous of what the administration costs, that, of course, in its basic features, it is still from the time of Maria Theresias and Joseph II. But, like many others, this reform has ultimately failed to resist the countries, even in this legislative period – as has the ban on speculation on the resistance of the countries – and in fact the positive initiative on administrative courts, which, I have said more often, is a good initiative. That's where you've seen: Once you as a government do not have sufficient majority, you will also be able to negotiate constructively with the opposition. And we've brought together something positive about the administrative courts, from the theory. But what do we see now? – That the countries are trying to destroy that by detour of their own competences – with their own personnel decisions, politically motivated, with their own service rights and with their own administrative organizations, where they see that it is more expensive, after the reform, than it has been before. And this is also one of the important points that it would be time for this Austrian National Council to carry out its task as a constitutional legislator, as well as the democratic package, as well as the administrative reform, as well as the ban on speculation, and not to be missed by the countries and to avoid everything. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are those who also have the responsibility for the Austrian population. It is always asked: Reforms? – Ladies and gentlemen! We from the BZÖ have made this very radical demands, because we have said that we no longer need national legislative competence. That could be centralized at the federal government. We do not need these inflated days, but we want to strengthen the competences of the communities accordingly, because they are closer to the citizens as a service provider. We want to strengthen the districts accordingly and also strengthen the federal legislator and expand the job opportunities. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] I believe that it would be necessary, in the next legislative period – as far as possible at the beginning – to really address these fundamental future issues with a future convention, to be here as a constitutional legislator of this challenge and not to find further excuses why nothing new has been brought together again. But now you could take a step to make sure that in the next week, we are still taking a good break and, together, we are still implementing this democratic package, which you all promised the voters.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6275	Mr Klubobmann, Member of the Commission, is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6296	I appreciate the speeches made by Mr Scheibner over and over again. He has always tried to bring us his persuasion skills here. [[President Neugebauer is taking over again.]] It is undisputed that not the social partners, not the countries, not any institutions, but the highest sovereign, of course, is voters, voters, the population and the final effect of the legislators, the National Council. And that we insist on this primacy – once in general – of politics, but in the narrower sense of the National Council, that is undisputed, and we remain here. That is why I am opposed to it when a little bit is assumed that there is always a priority there and there. It is a consensus democracy, and we want to try to ensure that – if there are fundamental changes – this consensus also makes it possible and that there are large majority in favour of it. What you have addressed was ultimately the federal principle: Should we have nine federal states at all? And, and, and so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Yeah, well, you can discuss that, but you have to discuss it with those concerned. The countries are also a cultural, political identity element, the communities as well, and one cannot go over it, but one must try to make a real consensus there. In the same way, it is on the question of the development of direct democracy: People's desire, people's survey. In my opinion, we, the two government parties, have presented a very sophisticated, good and smart model. We have, of course, also declared ourselves ready – since the desire to send it to the public has become ever stronger – to give it to the review; we have also done so. The review is very continuous, I would say: For example, the Constitutional Court calls for a fundamental revision. The country of Lower Austria finds that proportionality in the cooperation of parliamentary democracy does not agree with the measures of direct democracy. The Council of Seniors requires careful review. The Court of Auditors shall give a complete description of the financial impact. The President's Office points out that examples from abroad, like California, should also be considered before going this way. The Industrial Union says that popular desire and popular surveys are vulnerable to populist moods and therefore dangerous to abuse. The Institute of Federalism is for a major, gradual expansion and advocates for the further functioning of the political system. The Wiener Landtag expresses significant concerns. The Administrative Court considers that the introduction of the new instrument should still be thoroughly reconsidered. The Vorarlberger Landtag says at all, that all the changes in the federal constitution should be inadmissible. The Austrian Chamber of Agriculture calls for a minimum ceiling on participation in national surveys so that a minority does not decide on a silent majority. The municipal government is naturally concerned about financing, it calls for a refunding of all the costs incurred for the municipalities. The WCC calls for neither tax law nor the social sector to be the subject of popular surveys. The ÖGB is opposed to a popular survey automaticism because it is not compatible with the system of representative democracy. The Austrian Bishops' Conference is concerned and believes that this automation should be reconsidered because the right to religious freedom could be in conflict with the constitutional law. I can tell you this endlessly, but these are not any institutions, these are key institutions. [[Abg. Scheibner: decide on our request!]] – Yes, yes, in your request, I would not like to read the opinion on what they are writing in. So that was already the attempt to develop a model that has the chance of consensus. However, it is true that all the above-mentioned and also other institutions have massive criticisms and massive concerns. We're democrats. We're convinced of our model. We have finally put ourselves at the head of this movement for direct democracy, which is also presented here in the house, because we have said: Okay, if the opposition parties come to a denominator there, that's very interesting, but if we really want to take this seriously and try to implement it, then finally we have to look at what they say about it. Now it's ready. I assume that all Parliamentary groups will look very closely at this, will analyse it, will try to draw conclusions from it, and we will probably have to deal with it in the further process of parliamentary treatment in a form in which all these critical votes of consideration will have the opportunity to express themselves here in the House. You'll have to take that seriously. You will not want to worry about these important, important institutions of our Republic, and I therefore believe that this should be taken up, debated and, above all, entered into an in-depth and precise discussion process with those who have expressed criticism. Final sentence: It's not ten days before the election, but you know it yourself. You must have laughed as you said: Let's do this fast, huh? You even laughed. You rarely laugh when you talk here, but at the point you laughed. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] - Yeah, heh, heh, heh! Do you want to get back to my wishing rod? [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Petzner.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Hush! Hush in the basket!]] I'm just telling you – no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That would be a democratic understanding that we could agree on.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6372	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6394	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already indicated it: a large legislative project, direct democracy. I think it is important to highlight one thing: Direct democracy is not a self-esteem, but we also need to look at it from history. Why did we get to it? – The reason is political insanity. The reason is that fewer and fewer people participate in participation, and we have to create opportunities to get back to more co-determination and that more people can also get involved. And there was one of our proposals, which Sebastian recently made a year and a half ago – in addition to the model that one can choose Members directly – that people's desires and popular initiatives are basically more important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol.]] We have really discussed this very intensively – as my previous speaker Mr Scheibner has already said – but it is, as in many things, very often in detail where we have different opinions. If each political group has a detailed opinion and at the same time we need a constitutional law, where there is an identity to two thirds in each word, it is difficult to get together. I am not saying this because you do not know it, but because perhaps some of our listeners do not know so well that it is not so easy that we reach an agreement among four parties – today still among three, perhaps we even need four parties after the next election. I wonder if it will become easier or more difficult to bring together a constitutional majority. The issue is, in fact, becoming increasingly important, namely more participation, and thus in reality also for more democracy and not to give people any alternatives to democracy, to make them clear that we are in favour of de- Mokratie fights that – in accordance with Article 1 of the Austrian Constitution – the right is based on the people and that it is very, very important for us to be able to decide accordingly. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we also need a new spirit. Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. With regard to the administrative jurisdiction, there was a new spirit here in this house. We discussed calmly – changes that have affected even the federal states, fundamental administrative changes – we discussed this in a process of over two years and decided and then came to a common denominator. This has also been done because we have done it behind closed doors, in peace, and then the agreement with all the actors has been reached. The disadvantage for all of us was: Almost no medium has reported on one of the biggest reforms we have made in the Constitution since 1925. First of all, the journalists asked: Who was against whom, and who fought with whom? And since no one was against another or we didn't carry it outside, the media reported little about it. Now we have to assume that people probably do not agree with what we have decided here until after the entry into force of the 1. January 2014 will truly experience and feel. However, if direct democracy is really a concern to us, I believe we must go back to the outside representation, then we must put ourselves behind closed doors and discuss it peacefully, including this package of opinions which has come in under the review procedure. There was not only negative, as Mr Cap said, in one direction, but there have been opinions in different directions: On the one hand, this draft went too far, and on the other, the design was far too far. This also shows how sensitive the topic is in reality. I believe, and the Austrian People's Party believes that we must take one step at a time. We probably have to agree at the beginning on a small step, and maybe it's also a point to say: This law must not already apply unlimitedly, but we will try it once – for two years, for three years, for one year. We can discuss this, and we should discuss it. In any case, I am too serious in view of these many different opinions, even if I do not agree with many people who have spoken in recent days, who are afraid of giving more direct democracy to the citizen, now without further negotiation of a solution. I'm completely on the other side. Those who are afraid of politics should not stand in this place and actually have no leading role in this Republic either. It is important to restore trust to people and bring together a new trust between people and representatives of the people. We have to get there, and that is what we have to work hard! In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call on all of you to make a joint pact with all the political groups after the election. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Direct democracy would be an essential point, where we not only make an agreement between the government parties, but also with the opposition, as Sebastian Kurzschon suggested, so that we can finally implement the point of direct democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6472	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6493	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What we've heard now only appeals to the little statement: By their deeds you shall measure them! – We have already heard many explanations. Since the beginning of this legislative period, we have heard promises that direct democracy will be implemented, and now again a big call for it. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: not our only topic!]] What is it really about? – The FPÖ has been working for many years to develop direct democracy in order to be honest in the decision-making process. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is a very clear approach to this, and this includes two essential points. One point is to establish a People's Initiative, i.e. a legislative initiative from the populace. This means that a concrete legislative proposal is carried with a popular desire, is supported by a certain number of persons. Parliament then has the opportunity to implement this, and if it is not implemented, there is a referendum on it. This is a very clear thing, a very clear development. In addition to representative democracy here in Parliament, there is the possibility of taking initiatives out of the population. The second very important point is the so-called Veto referendum. That is to say, a law already adopted, a law adopted here in Parliament, also due to a desire from the population, is presented on the basis of a certain number of signatures for the referendum. This means that the population can force a legislative decision to be re-examined by the population – a very essential point. These two things would lead to a real development of democracy here in Austria, in so far as it would be an atmospheric change if Members here first learned of the population, what it really wants, with a very qualitative support, and secondly always had to expect their decisions to be reviewed again. These are very important changes that we have been fighting, which we have called for, and which we have discussed for a long time during the last legislative period. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But what really happened? – There was a really well-functioning working group, and the result was that the government parties then presented a draft law that was, with a promise, really ridiculous. He was really ridiculous, because there was only a better funeral ritual for popular desires, that is, they are treated a little bit more nicely here. The second was a citizen's request, which was completely ridiculous and embarrassing, which really was an increase of the population, which was then removed by the government parties themselves, because they came up with it, that doesn't work. The opposition then presented a draft compromise proposal, and the government has jumped there and has tried to present something similar – but always with the clear will that this will no longer be implemented. Unfortunately, the Greens have given up on doing so. I don't know if they were really so naïve, to believe that this is still being implemented, or whether this was an attempt to achieve a future coalition. I don't know, it really disappointed me personally, because I also had the impression, in my personal conversation with Mrs. Musiol, that we trust each other so far that we don't shave out – but well, that's another thing. But what is behind this rejection of direct democracy? – Behind the rejection of direct democracy there are always schina arguments: This would now be carried quite terrible things, the death penalty would be introduced or free beer would be required for all. Only these arguments, which are repeatedly presented by red and black, show a very peculiar human image: that one apparently entrusts such things to the population; on the other hand, however, one wants to be elected by exactly these people – and this is a far-reaching one, we also point out this with our initiative. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A typical example of this human image is the head of state Voves. There is now this combination of communities in Styria. One can discuss whether this is good or not, but at least there are large resistances from the population, and therefore there is now also the desire to be able to vote directly on it, i.e. to vote. [[Abg. Steibl: So that's not true! A couple of beautiful mayors!]] But what's Voves saying? – He is against forced voting – I do not know what forced voting is – and he says: As long as I have something to say, the cock won't weddle with the dog! – What is the cock? – The population; and the dog is obviously the country day. [[Call the FPÖ: Unheard!]] As long as he has something to say, the population has nothing to say – it is exactly this way of thinking that is being transported there. This is the way of thinking of those who massively argue with many good, bad – however – arguments against the further development of direct democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's just to say: The FPÖ has decided. For us, it is a coalition condition when we come to a government that direct democracy is being further developed in the sense that I have outlined it. The population can then decide: If she wants to give him a chance, she has to choose FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6591	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6612	Ladies and gentlemen! I and many others, including many others who have already spoken today, want more democracy, more direct democracy – but not as an answer to political insanity, that is too short. Political starkness does not begin with democracy either. Of course, it is supported by listening to some of the debates here in the house and seeing what is happening here far away from objective discussion at party-political hack. But political stardom starts with real politics, which is where – and now I come to the subject of the previous debate – where education policy, where social policy, where environmental policy, which has long been made, is not made. Where people daily notice what unfair conditions exist, there the political starkness begins, and there people begin to say: I don't want to choose these people! I don't want to go to the election anymore! We want direct democracy for a long time. The Greens have already made a first request in 1987, and we have made a lot of progress in this period too. Mr Scheibner has very beautifully outlined the historical process of the so-called democratic package. I think you left out the last phase, and I want to deal with it now. I will start where, contrary to our other agreement, we have assembled and asked ourselves how we can still have a reform, despite this very poor original proposal by ÖVP and SPÖ, and where we have jointly defined criteria. Then there was a phase in which I entered into negotiations with SPÖ and ÖVP. The fact that you cannot understand this or do not approve of it, of course, is with you, I can understand it to a certain point, but it was important for me to really do something. I have not been elected to the Parliament to announce things, nor to form with any people some small groups that then do not go further, but my understanding of why I stand here is to actually do things as well. And there was and there was a chance. We have then adopted a package in many discussions here, which has also been sufficiently discussed in the Constitutional Committee, and then sent it in review. You have already said – you have mentioned this yourself – at the time: It could be that this period will be nothing more. I didn't disagree with you. I said I still believe in that, and I still believe in it now. But that doesn't mean that I'm naïve, but that means that I just believe in the fact that people who stand here are elected and say: I want something, I am dealing with you and I want to have this and that point in this package!, in principle, to stand on their word. Then there was the assessment phase, and there has already been some exciting event. We have a review until 15. ==References====External links== Mr. Cap – who is very excited about the moment – and Mr. Kopf publicly stated that this was nothing more during this period. Before any opinions have been received, they have already declared publicly – I am happy to be able to make the APA issue available, to print it again – that this will be nothing more during this period. This is already perfide, and this also shows your sense of democracy, which also shows how you really deal with reviews. Mr Cap, if you say that the reviews are going on, we have to take them seriously, of course it is democratically important that we take them seriously, then I say yes, but why did you not do this when it comes to data storage? There were only negative opinions on this, but ÖVP and SPÖ decided to do so against any opinion and against any civil society or other appeal. So you already show a very different behavior in the taking of opinions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How the opinions have been presented here is also a story of its own. ==References== August we had all the opinions, and I do not know if you have made the effort to look through them, but I would not call these opinions “grow through. ” There are of total – now I have to repeat myself – 30 opinions 16 per, seven that are neutral, six counter – in which is written: We are in principle opposed to further development of direct democracy!In other words, what model would Parliament have presented is opposed, and there are five that come mainly from civil society and which say that this is too little. We immediately asked all the parties immediately after the 9th century. A meeting of the Constitutional Committee could be convened on these opinions on September. What was the reaction of all parties, including the BZÖ? – zero, nada, cute, no single answer, no party has ir- The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] That is why we have tabled a deadline request today. We have been able to deal with the opinions in the Constitutional Committee for nine days, and we can continue to do so until the next National Council is scheduled. So maybe you can. You excavat all the relevant e-mails again, perhaps you will answer, perhaps we will get another date, and perhaps we will manage to get a meaningful package on the way in this period.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6688	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6709	Mrs Musiol! Unfortunately, however, the support of your group for my concern in the Presidency was that we would agree and fix agreed committee days and parliamentary days also in the day-to-day session and in September, because you too have been of the opinion, well, you will already see that, because you should not fix something in advance. This would have been useful and necessary, then we would not have been dependent on the retroactive favor of the government parties, but then we would have had the opportunity to deal with these issues permanently in the Constitutional Committee, which we, like all other committees, wanted to explain. One, Mrs. Musiol, because you only had partial understanding of our surprise about your ejaculation: For me, I tell you, in my entire political career, handshake quality was an important criterion. We knew very well that as opposition we are only strong if we act together, and as long as we have done so, it has worked. There has only been movement in the government parties because we have seen that we present constructive but also very active and dynamic self-initiatives. It was their intention to allow the government parties to avoid exactly this positive initiative of the opposition. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] In terms of content, you really can't say that a popular desire for 900,000 signatures would have been a real step forward for direct democracy. But that was exactly the request of red and black, which you supported. We have said that 250 000 should be sufficient – and you are out of it: 900 000 on constitutional issues! In view of this, you cannot really say that it has been your desire to implement and carry out something more. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] At the latest in the committee, it was clear that this is not willing, you know it very well. I say to you that I do not know the Greens' strategies, but if you want to enforce something, you will have to carry out an initiative together with the other opposition parties once to the end. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! Mr Gerstl, recognition of your contribution to the subject-matter of the debate – I think this debate shows that we can also discuss serious and objective issues in terms of election times – only in this way, of course, can it not be that way, as you have then tried: that you will then only negotiate with those of which you believe that you can get the most cheap majority of the Constitution, as in this case with the Greens! If you confess yourself openly and honestly to joint negotiations here in the National Council, then you should really do so with all the political groups until the end of the day. (Parliament adopted the Then you can see whether there is sufficient consent or not. Mr Cap! I give you the right to discuss these important things in consensus, but there should also be a border pointing out outwardly, namely, when you see that it is a matter of purely preventing tactics, such as the countries. If we set ourselves goals as constitutional legislators, then we enter into negotiations with all concerned and signal that we want a consensus, but if only out of determination it is prevented that we receive, for example, a accounting obligation at the ban on speculation, which is the responsibility of the 21st century. ==References====External links== But this does not work because the countries prevent it, then you simply have to say: Let's do it alone! Finally, we are committed to the seriality and also to the electoral mandate. The same is true of the rules on competence, and it would be the same with the reorganisation of administrative structures. We will then find the scope to give the population a little back financially via a tax reduction and a tax reform. I say again: It would be useful for this National Council to find itself with experts from the outside in a future convention and then really deal with those concerned in a timely manner, so that it can be implemented during the legislative period, too, over these important issues. Finally, I would like to say perhaps that even if you rightly praised the constructive climate in the Constitutional Committee: It is about constitutional majority that you have not had until now. Perhaps you or we should consider all of us and the voters and the voters that it would not be so bad if, after the election day, there were no majority of the two now still major parties of SPÖ and ÖVP, because then perhaps what you rightly praise on constitutional issues would be necessary even in the case of simple laws: that you sit down at a table with the opposition and try to find common reasonable solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6782	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6804	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear spectators at home in front of the screens! Did you notice anything if you listened to the contributions in the last half hour? Mr Cap spoke first of a good draft of the two government parties and then reads massive criticism of the federal states and other institutions on this democratic package, which is supposed to be so well negotiated. So he criticizes his own government, ladies and gentlemen! That means that this government has not worked well, but has worked very badly – or do you perhaps not want to let the people talk about this issue?- Oh, my God! Mr Gerstl of the ÖVP has said literally: Let's sit behind closed doors and do it! – Let’s sit behind closed doors and act out. This country, ladies and gentlemen, has been ruled behind closed doors for too long. Let's take our future on 29 May. September yourself, I'll invite you!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6834	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall come to the vote. Vote on the request from Mr Scheibner, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment No 2177/A by Mr Dr Cap, Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Cots on Democracy Package ==References== Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[15:29:42]] Voting on further requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6882	Vote on the request by Members Bucher, Colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Education to report on the request 2376/A from Members of the Booker, Colleagues and colleagues on Service Law Novelle 2013 – Educational Service of a deadline until 24. ==References== I ask for an acceptable sign. – The application does not find a majority, is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Musiol, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment No 2177/A by Dr Cap, Head, Members of Parliament on the package of democracy, a deadline of 24. ==References== I'm asking for your supportive sign. – The request is rejected. [[15:30:20]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-09-18-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00218_d7e6922	I am still announcing that a motion for a resolution has been tabled at today's meeting on self-employed persons 2379/A(E). Questions 15955/J to 15985/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 25 May. September, at 8 p.m., will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
