ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e4829	Good day, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 190. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The unreaded parts of the 187 Official Protocol. Meeting of 30 March 1990 In January 2013 as well as the official protocols of 188 and 189. Meeting of 31. In January 2013, the Parliament's Directorate remained disquieted and undisputed. Deputies Dr. Bartenstein, Fürntrath-Moretti, Großruck, Obernosterer, Mag are reported as prevented. Schönegger, Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, Linder, Mag. Brunner, Dr. Lichtenecker, Mag. Musiol, Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber, Mag. Schwentner, Dr. Walser, Windbüchler-Souschill, Scheibner, Mag. Grossmann, Katzian, Mag. Johann Maierund Köfer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e4863	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Beatrix Karl is the Federal Minister for the Interior Mag. Johanna Mikl- Leitner. [[10:02:36]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e4896	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e5101	I announce that the session will be transferred to ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and to ORF III in full length. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e5120	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question of 14022/J by the honourable Member, put to the agenda before the entry into force of the agenda. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, to the Federal Minister for Finance on Lower Austrian speculation and losses in billions. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure shall be carried out at least three hours after receipt of the agenda at the latest at 3 p.m. [[10:03:30]] EU Declaration by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor according to § 74b para. 1 lit. (b) the Rules of Procedure of the National Council for the purpose of discussing the results of the European Council of 7 and 8. February 2013
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e5150	We are now going into the agenda. These two declarations should not exceed a total of 25 minutes. A debate will then be held in accordance with Rule 74b of the Rules of Procedure. Actual corrections will not be invoked until the end of the debate. I now give the floor to Mr Faymann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e5184	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! More than 5 million unemployed young people demand that Europe, the European Union, and joint decisions be taken to boost growth in Europe and thus strengthen employment. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, the multiannual financial framework and the fact that the Heads of Government of the European Union have agreed on this multiannual financial framework are a real, good result for Austria and Europe. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If, in the past period, Austria's payments, as measured by economic performance, gross domestic product, have been entered as a ceiling by 0.33 percent of GDP, compared with the result of 0.31 percent of GDP as a commitment and ceiling for the next period, this is a fair result compared to other countries that are also net payers. There are few among them, some who are the same, and some others who have come to lie down worse. But in the foreground, not only is this comparison for me, but: What about creating a financial framework for the European Union? [[Abg. Kickl: That's a good question!]] We have not overall increased the share of European gross domestic product, which we jointly invest, but have even slightly reduced. This means that, in terms of economic performance in Europe, the financial resources have become no longer, but essentially remained the same. That is why many Members of the European Parliament are criticizing a economical conclusion, which is precisely because it is a economical conclusion. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: From the government partner above all!]] That those who have more must do more, we have always said clearly. – Thus, this is also proof of our good economic performance, a proof that we are among the best in the European Union. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If we were measured by economic performance per capita, we would be obliged to make an even higher net contribution. In fact, our contribution to me is therefore to be considered as a good result of long negotiations, because we have been involved in essential issues and have also enforced in some of them. It is essential to me that we finally create something at €6 billion to combat youth unemployment, namely a fund to promote youth employment and, above all, to create training opportunities for young people. Good examples of this are Austria and some other countries of the European Union, which have the dual training system, which invest very much in training skilled workers and 16-year-olds do not stand on the streets. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Keeping this principle and creating a fund for it is a decent, a proper and a most necessary start. Youth employment guarantee is, of course, more than this beginning, but it is a right way. The discussion on a financial transaction tax also had a start with many two-fifths and is now on the way to the finish line. I also want the Youth Employment Guarantee in Europe to come to the finish, because so many unemployed young people are not allowed to leave anyone who has something left for Europe and for people and for human dignity. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have also represented objectives which we have always publicly presented in the discussion. This includes, for example, a strong commitment to rural and rural development. We have not said from small-scale egoism that we need the support for the rural region, but because we believe that, as for the soul of Austria, rural areas play an important and important role for Europe, and not only the development to urban centres, to conglomerates, to cities is of benefit. A development that works by itself or is even promoted by industrial settlements, for example, and decisions of the industries to focus more on urban areas, is consciously opposed because we believe that rural areas too are a value in themselves, an important value that we represent and defend. We have also achieved a very acceptable result for rural areas in Austria, with €700 million in addition, compared to the previous proposals, which our agriculture and our rural area have deserved more than deserved. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] I would like to thank you at this point for the constructive cooperation, for the fact that we in the country also did not allow any discussions to be settled against each other, but jointly presented the fact that this support for rural areas – the promotion of rural areas, we have jointly represented in the negotiations. [[Abg. Brosz: What?]] [[Call the Greens:Please? Together?]] It would have been easy to switch these amounts to any discount discussions, but we did not and put rural areas as a particular priority requirement. The discount was the second demand, where we have also achieved a partial goal. But I do not want to go too far into the figures in detail, but just say: If we reach a ceiling of 0.31 percent with our net contributions, if what we have put up in gross payments in the area of the financial framework remains roughly the same and if Germany is 0.38 percent of GDP – although we are, per capita, richer than Germany, which we have overtaken in recent years, Germany achieves a higher performance – then it is the same as our contribution to UK, France and others, in about this order of magnitude. I am now again at the end of my remarks on the contribution in comparison, because I am convinced that in the wording ‘a very acceptable result’, as Mr Vice-Chancellor said today, ‘a good result’, as I say, is not a big difference. It is crucial that it is a result that also allows the Austrian economy to gain, a result that gives the Austrian economy not only the opportunity to earn something and thus create employment, but also, if the other is good, through a number of funds, that infrastructure that promotes research and development. As a result, Austrian businesses benefit far beyond what they use in their own country by actively using these funds in other countries of the European Union. These are funds that also benefit our economy, so we are net winners under control!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e5297	Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, you have shown your poster, I ask you to roll it in again! Federal Chancellor, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e5315	However, I would also like to stress that the funds for research, science and infrastructure have been increased from €2 billion to €3.1 billion, in line with what we have done, not to cut down on the amounts that are so important to innovation, to competition and to Europe's competitive location. Also for Austria, the transport infrastructure is one of the winners by increasing the €700 million to €1.1 billion in the future, because we have projects to use, on the one hand, economic power, location, European corridors, and, of course, environmental policy. The rail as an alternative to the road is a programme for Europe, which is in reality only at the beginning, where we still have a lot to do. – An important result of the discussions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As agreed, I would like to conclude by quoting the President of the Federal Council, Edgar Mayer, who wrote a letter to me at this point: Although the conditions were difficult, the Austrians can be very satisfied with the compromise reached. As a former apprentice trainer, I am particularly pleased with your initiative on youth unemployment. In this area, every euro we can invest in in addition is a meaningful investment in the future of youth in Europe. - Quote. I would like to thank all those who support us both in the negotiations and now in presenting this outcome as it is.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e5364	I now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor Dr Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e5385	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment today on this outcome on the financial framework for Europe for the next seven years. First of all, I would like to start with what the agreement is worth. This agreement for this seven-year budget for Europe is therefore of particular importance because the alternative that one must live from year to year with a budget-provision is not intoxicating. That is why I am glad that there is a result and that in spite of this seven-year budget, all the unacceptable calls will be carried by all Member States and that we have an agreement on the table. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This financial framework, ladies and gentlemen, is still in euro, despite all the unmistakable calls, in euro, a stable, a good and a forward-looking currency. I would also like to hold that again today. [[New applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We therefore – also as Austria – planability, we have a requirement that everyone knows what frameworks are available for the next years and what they can expect when projects are submitted. In my view, this is certainly a planning that is necessary in order to achieve growth and employment throughout Europe and especially in Austria. That is why it is good that there is this agreement. [[Abg. Kickl: How was the veto now?]] Secondly, to the savings budget. – I do not understand Members – especially from the Green Group, but also from the European Parliament – who, if all of Europe has difficulties in presenting budgets, demand that we make budgets in Europe up to the same level as in the national Member States. I do not understand, and I give this a fundamental No, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Do you think Karas?]] What applies to national Member States, namely to run a savings course, to achieve a balanced budget, also requires savings measures in the European Union. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Karas is more coming to us than to you, what I understand now!]] That's why it was important and good that we also achieved a savings budget. If you look at the numbers: 960 billion € for seven years, which is a reasonable total, which is a realistic budget, which is also one that does not mean an increase, but a real savings of 3 percent. I believe that the price of consolidation is correct and supportive under the conditions laid down. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Thirdly, on the negotiations themselves. – Yes, these are always difficult negotiations between 27 partners who ultimately need to agree on a budget for another seven years. This is not a European beauty competition, since everyone must also be able to compete before their own citizens and say: I have achieved this result, so I have to live! That is why I do not understand in the discussion how it is derived from whether one is employed per Europe or against Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view of a savings budget, everyone has to make his contribution, not to ask a question, but simply to ask: We need a lot more! – I am still well aware of the fact that, when we discussed in the main committee, the Green Group has said that the European budget has to do twice as much – this is not only illusion, it would also be dangerous, also in the interests of Austrian citizens! [[Abg. Kickl: That's what the Karas said!]] [[Abg. Kickl: I have something left in my ear: Veto!]] Therefore, a clear rejection in this direction. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Now to the result for Austria. – Yes, from my point of view, this result is acceptable for Austria, even if it is not a cause for rejoicing. I therefore say this so clearly and clearly, because we also have to look at and report with sober eyes to the Austrian taxpayer, and thus also have to put on the table what it means for Austria and how we have to make our contributions in this direction in the next seven years. What do we pay? What's going on back? What is the cost of the European Union? Where will we achieve benefits? – All this is to be considered and assessed with this soberness. For Austria, two key issues were always at the heart of the negotiations – between the government partners and also consistently represented –: The most important was rural development. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] I therefore say this with particular clarity, because from rural development there is a direct need for action for the fate of many organic farmers and miners in Austria. I do not want to account for any such fate, where in the next few years someone will have to pay 30 percent less income. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] That would be irresponsible! And that is why we have been completely behind the Austrian farmers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] We have experienced through the first draft of the President of the Van Rompuy European Council a delicate reduction in rural development funds, namely of more than 30 percent, which could only be recovered by the negotiation process – not entirely, but in some way, so that we can now also ensure a perspective for organic farmers, miners, the whole rural region in Austria for the next seven years. And that's important, ladies and gentlemen. I do not want us to look forward to moving from rural areas towards the agglomeration centres, but rather for rural areas through support, even through appropriate amounts from the European Union, to a perspective for the next seven years. This is certain, and therefore the result is acceptable. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] On the question of discount, we have seen – which was the second priority for Austria in the negotiations – that Britain, which has also incorporated this discount in the European Treaties, does not take away from it. We have therefore also received the discount from the British discount, but we have lost the second component in terms of the reduced VAT rate. That's the wormhead drop. We no longer have anything to do with the previous seven-year plans in the European Union during the last negotiations. However, this is to be accepted, because we have advantages through the European Union that will make this happen. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah!]] [[Abg. Kickl: How was the veto now?]] I am convinced that export-oriented Austrian companies will regain this through the internal market, through opportunities in the European Union, but also outside the European Union, and through their performance. That is why I believe that this is a wormhead drop, but we also have to accept it. The net contribution will increase accordingly. This time we will have a net contribution of about € 1 billion per year. [[Abg. Bitch: A little more!]] That is more than before, but I say once again, that is also to be accepted. We have achieved a corresponding added value in recent years. Austria has developed better than other regions, and that is why we must take note of this net contribution, which is higher than in the past. Overall, therefore, we are behind Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden in the same way as France and the United Kingdom in the middle of the net payers, followed by those who cut off even better: Finland, Denmark and Italy. I would like to say once again in this overall review: We have the plus and minus to see clearly and also to evaluate. We have a positive impact on youth employment – I am pleased that we can also show in the European Union that this is important to us. Even if this will no longer bring us youth employment programmes in Austria, it is necessary that we make available appropriate resources in all other countries, where youth employment is a special problem today. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have – for Austrian interests – a higher donation for the Horizon 2020 research programme, a real increase of €34 billion over the next seven years. Austria also benefits from this. We have presented such projects in the past, and I am convinced that we will also be able to claim these funds for Austrian projects in the future. This will also help us to ensure that, in particular, SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises, come from the European Union in Austria. This is a special potential that we have also represented in advance. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A third point that is positive: We also have more funding at Erasmus, the famous student programme, and we also benefit from it – compared to 2013 – and it will be significantly strengthened. Already 60 000 Austrians have benefited from these programmes in the past. It is good if it can be even more in the future, because these European experiences need young people to get involved. We have a minus in the so-called needy regions. Although we have achieved that there is a transitional category for the Burgenland, the funds available there will be two thirds lower than in the past. [[Abg. Neubauer: This is a huge success!]] In the future, we will also have the same minus in the cross-border projects in Austria, but that is the one that corresponds to such an agreement. There are relatively few savings in EU administration – we have been more committed, but what has been achieved can be seen. How's it going? . Now the European Parliament will have to discuss this multi-annual financial framework, as the Heads of State or Government negotiated it. I expect this proposal to be handled responsibly – it is not a co-decision, it is a right of consent. And I also expect that if there are small changes there and there, these will still be taken into account, but I cannot imagine that something can be changed on the big framework. But something else is decisive: Can we, with the resources now being made available, also put positive emphasis on growth, which is also heading towards greater competitiveness? . In this context, I would like to point out that last week, in his speech by American President Obama, there was also a possibility to negotiate a free trade zone between Europe and the United States of America and to conclude it as quickly as possible. I strongly support it. It can give us just one effect, as the Single Market has brought it into Europe, namely that such a free trade agreement, a trade and investment agreement can bring about €100 billion per year of profit to both sides. These are dimensions, ladies and gentlemen, which can actually do something. I am therefore of the firm conviction: If we put this at the heart of our considerations, if we put pressure on it to negotiate this agreement as quickly as possible, then we can confidently move towards growth perspective for Europe, then we can also provide for Austrian businesses and for Austrian jobs in the future. And that's our job! That is why I am very much in favour of concluding this free trade agreement with the USA as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: How was the veto?]] In conclusion, I would like to stress once again: I agree that we are voting in accordance with this multiannual financial framework in the European Parliament that there is an agreement. [[Abg. New builder:, you talk differently every day!]] This result is acceptable to Austria, even if it is not to rejoice, but I am confident that this agreement has proved that Europe works, that we also have structures for the future, through the security of planning. And this is important for Austria, for our employees and for our entrepreneurs. – In this sense, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e5640	We are going into the debate. I would point out that according to § 74b para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. The first is Mr Klubobmann Strache. 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e5670	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! I am really concerned about this interesting idea that the German Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor have given the best in this House today. They have tried to present a great success for Austria here. I would have liked to see all the many problems we have in Austria. Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor, you are acting as if we had no problems. 410 000 Austrians are without work! I would have hoped you would make money in this context and reduce the net contributions in order to halve the net contributions because we have problems in our country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But nothing like it! Heating costs in Vienna will be removed without replacement – the poorest of the poor will be affected. That's where you save where you're going. They are pretending that we have no unemployment and no social problems to solve. You do not wear the skirt of sparingness, as I would have liked it to be from you, namely a Scottish skirt of sparingness, when it comes to the interests of the Austrians. [[The speaker holds a shot skirt in the height]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you should have put on it, not the Austrian spendier pants with money that you don't even hear! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore say very consciously that I am going to hand over to you today this Scottish saving rock, so that you will never forget what you have done to the Austrians with your negotiations – I will still carry out what the result for us Austrians means. [[Abg. May. Rudas: How was it on the Maldives?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[The speaker presented the above-mentioned Schottenrock to Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] Because you're talking about human dignity: Mr. Bundeskanzler, you have the Austrian on this 8th. In reality, February provides a financial day for the Car Friday and a premature billions of Easter. This is not your money that you spend there with donor pants, namely by increasing the net contributions. From 2015, we will pay € 1.3 billion net to Brussels every year – and you will try to sell this as a “mega success”! You are a negotiators, Mr Bundeskanzler, when it comes to the interests of the Austrians, otherwise it cannot be described. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is actually a mega-flop, and what you're doing for the best is to generate – and then try to sell the Austrians for stupid. [[Abg. May. Gäßner: Today is not Aschütteri on Wednesday!]] There you really have to ball the fist in the pants bag, otherwise you can't describe it if you're trying to sell your negotiating skills as a success. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you are obliged to the Austrians! – Let’s look at the reality: Our payments to the European Union amount to € 2.6 billion annually gross, Austrian tax money. 2.6 billion € gross! From 2014 to 2020, you will increase the net contributions per year by €100 million, while at the same time reducing the return flows to farmers. And Mr. Vice-Chancellor here pretends to be grateful to the farmers – yes, they will really thank the ÖVP for being abandoned. The return on farmers will be reduced by € 72 million to € 73 million per year. That's going to be They are the people in the rural regions of Lower Austria before the 3rd century. March must be explained! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] - That's where the ÖVP laughs. This concerns the rural area, which already has great problems today, where farmers have to get unfair prices and lock more and more of them. There are large farmers dying in many areas. But when it comes to the big landowners, it's a good deal to negotiate. The Queens, the English King's House and all the large landowners in Europe are still well served anyway. – That’s to reality. With this disastrous result for the Austrian taxpayer, Mr Bundeskanzler, you have done nothing good. On the contrary, you will enter the history of Austria as an extremely incapable German chancellor, but also as the most expensive German chancellor, because the costs you leave to the Austrians are sustainable costs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have to imagine democracy policy: A financial framework, before the next National Council elections, before the next EU elections, will be quickly concluded for seven years, so that we can no longer make any more democratic changes. That is, before you are elected in autumn, you will be burdening the Austrians for seven years, so that even in the future a parliament cannot change something here. This is the incredible behind it. It's a mega-flop, and then you're also trying to sell it as a success, which really beats the bottom of the barrel! Ladies and gentlemen! The groups are served, but farmers who need it are not. And there, of course, the ÖVP plays a very sad role. Mr. Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger, what about your veto? Since in the last few weeks you have felt short as a tiger, you have grated as a tiger and said: If there are increases, we will fight like a tiger and we will put in a veto when the Austrians are more burdened and the farmers lose! [[Abg. Neubauer: Nothing has remained of Veto!]] Where's the veto? – The reverse shift has re-established at the ÖVP! [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Spindelegger.]] You fell down! Nothing to hear from Veto, Mr Spindelegger. Now at once you complain to your Mr. Chancellor Faymann, but in reality they are led by the Federal Chancellor at the Nosenring, otherwise it cannot be described. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Painful!]] This is of course also blamable for the ÖVP, which has fallen by your behavior. The next opportunity to pass, Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor, is coming soon anyway: with the transaction tax. There will then be another coincidence, as it is likely that this will develop in a completely different direction than it is when it comes to introducing a transaction tax. Although one wants to introduce the transaction tax, it is likely that revenue will not remain in Austria, but will be transferred to the European Union, as the EU Commission intends to take this tax at EU level. I have had the impression that today I am not dealing with the Austrian Chancellor, who is vehemently committed to the interests of the Austrians, but that an EU Commissioner is standing in front of us here, who gives us the best, what we need to do and for what we need to understand. I say to you that this understanding is missing from the Austrians, because the Austrians have been suffering for years because of billions of money in the direction of banks and corporations you serve. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] They do not experience any social justice at all, from which you always phase, but which is actually not lived anywhere. That's exactly what's horrific: You yourself drive an EU centralism rather than do what your voters expect from you to fight like a lion, so that we can invest our tax money well in Austria. We're in trouble. We need our tax money in Austria in the field of education, in which we need to invest, for the young people in Austria. We need our money in Austria to set up initiatives against unemployment in order to get people to work. There are not even reintegration programmes for homeless people – a shame for Austria, where homeless people are abandoned, but for everyone else who is sitting as asylum fraud in the Votivkirche today, they are willing to spend any tax money. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are exactly the problems where people say that there is no such thing as everything goes wrong from the front to the back – from this federal government to the countries. Mr Bundeskanzler, German Commissioner Günther Oettinger, has already said that part of the transaction tax that you so vehemently demand will flow into the EU budget in the future – and not in the Austrian budget. That is why we should say very clearly and clearly: Of us, there is a clear yes to transaction tax, but the funds must, of course, flow into the respective national budgets and not again as an additional EU tax. In any event, we already pay EU taxes enough by the net contributions you impose on us, and by all the billions that flow towards the EU bank speculators, where solidarity is always spoken of, but solidarity is not lived with the Greek, not with the Spanish and not with the Portuguese population. There, thousands of people demonstrate every day and ask where the living solidarity is. Your solidarity will be lived exclusively with the banks and corporations, but not with the citizens of Europe, even though you are always trying to pretend otherwise – but that has long been what people have been looking through. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will also make a new request today because it is time to free the Austrians from you, Federal Chancellor. A new election proposal is time, because it is no longer possible for the Austrians to have to endure what we are now experiencing in the next few months: a permanent hack on the one hand, a standstill on the other side and only pre-election plans until autumn. This is something that is no longer reasonable. Ladies and gentlemen! Support You are now applying for the new elections, and we are choosing, at the latest in April or May, together with Tyrol or Salzburg, that would be reasonable, then we would have clear conditions and would not have to continue in the areas that I have just addressed, the developments caused by you suffer and endure! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Austrians finally want an end – rather an end to terror than a terror without end, and otherwise one cannot call it. I can tell you that the difference between you and me is a great one and I am proud of this one, because if I had your function, I would fight like a lion for Austrian interests and not fall over. [[Abg. May. Rudas: Maldives!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can be carried with a bearer immediately to the next European Union negotiations, then at least you do not have to be embarrassed again and give a retreater to the best of how you have done so. And that's exactly where you can't release the ÖVP out of your responsibility, because the ÖVP once again played hard and is, of course, in the bed of co-responsibility with you, and that will be you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, before the 3. In March, farmers in Lower Austria have to explain, because they are heavily affected by the cuts in rural areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e5860	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e5882	Madam President. High house! For the blue lion maybe briefly said: You were not even brave enough to put on the Scottish skirt, Mr. Strache. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I don't know if we needed this sight urgently – I don't think so – but at least that was more than a modest activism that you developed there. [[Abg. Strache: I could have played “Braveheart” then!]] But if I look at your concept behind this speech, then, I think, you're still in thinking a little bit more in villages and tribes. It's a more networked world in which we live now. [[Abg. Kickl: You can see that in beef, like!]] So if you grab or telephone your cell phone every now and then, it would be good. In the past, you just went to the neighboring village for a vacation, or to a maximum of the neighboring tribe, if there was a semi-reasonable relationship between the tribes. In any case, they refuse a view of things, which is ultimately crucial to the assessment. We have the European Union as an economic area and the euro area as a currency area not from jux and tollery, but because we, as a smaller country, want to guarantee that these achievements remain in the social and welfare state, in the health system, in pensions, in securing jobs and in employment. For all of this, we are a model – beyond our borders – in Europe; entire delegations come to Austria and study the Austrian model. For this we need this economic area – with all criticism. I am also one of those who sometimes criticise some development. You refuse this assessment. If you do not recognize this, that means that you risk in the final effect that we will either have the Chinese production rhythm or the self-understanding of the Indian social state here in Austria. I don't want to let anyone down, I respect the achievements of the people who work there, but these are incomparablely worse conditions. Think of the Smog in Beijing, think of all the problems that exist there! These problems do not have Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Does the Androsch know?]] And why doesn't Austria have it? – Because we have developed production and a successful economy. We are the third largest country in the European Union – and now it comes! – not because of you, but because of the fluff of the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] And because we have a successful economy, we also pick up so much support in Brussels. This is crucial, because this is a lot of money invested by Brussels in cooperation with projects in Austria, which help to ensure that there is this high level of employment, the highest level of employment in Austria. That doesn't happen in your speeches. That's where I have to say: This is a modest access that you have. This does not lead to government, even if you believe that when you go to Brussels, everyone there will sink into a shock bar. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes!]] You must once see that you get through through control at the entrance. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We can spend money too!]] I'm just telling you: Don't draw any pictures here, which are actually not entitled at all! It was one of the basic consensus of the European Union at the time that it was said that the rich people were paying a higher contribution. In concrete terms, for example, regions with over 25 percent youth unemployment are now involved. 6 billion € in the fund. Why? - You don't say that. If we do not, we have economic migration within Europe. There are problems which cannot be solved in Spain or Italy or Eastern Europe via economic migration to the rich centres. There is a right for these centres to participate in an economic development so that one can see a sense of living and working there. And this view is missing from you, which is not connected: not above the edge of the plate – or from me in this case – do not think beyond the edge of the pult. You have to! We all say Austria is the most important thing, but Austria is part of the European Union, and therefore part of the European Union, because Austria is so important to us, and therefore part of the European Union, because we want to prevail in global competition. That's why it was so important that there is this financial framework that has managed to make us pay more richer and richer, even though we have more, but not in relation to the growing wealth that we now have. Why? – Because, for example, it's so crucial – yes, it hurts now, that hurts, that's one of the many facts you don't want to take note of. [[Abg. Strache: The mass of people is not getting richer either! 1.3 million Austrians live at the poverty line! That's where you're talking about wealth? It's a nonsense!]] Rural areas, for example, are a very crucial project. The funds increased from € 140 million to € 700 million. It's fine! Negotiating success. I'll tell you. The discount was defended, but what is being picked up there is the decisive thing. This can be read in countless analyses and revisions. It's Austria's been a good deal. What surprises me is why this has not taken a central role in the discussion, including you. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you don't believe in miracles, do you?- Oh, my God!]] I'm going to talk to you so much now because you spoke in front of me, but why not. For example, freezing of officials' salaries for two years, saving in the administration, 5 percent staff reduction, solidarity tax on officials' salaries. – This is what we have always criticized, namely that we have said, we recognize the hard work of those who sit in Brussels and help them to develop this project, but we also want economy on the ground. And they have to take note - and I therefore also understand the appeal to so many votes in the European Parliament - that if the national budgets have to take account of the facts that they are still a little more targeted in expenditure, which is also applicable to the budget of the European Union. And that is also a crucial point. The Austrian taxpayers are very likely to stand in front of them and can say: We deal responsibly with your money, we see that this brings something, also for us in Austria as part of the European Union, because we are together simply so strong in global competition – not only because it is a peace project, a cultural project, not just because we want to see the Eastern European countries, which are now members, grow in, that there is a development here that manages to achieve an economic compensation for investing. Austria is one of the most diligent investors in many of these member countries of the European Union. And of that we win, of which we have something, of which the taxpayer has something, of which money comes in, of which money comes in at all levels. [[Abg. Street: Through the group taxation!]] And the net payer position, which everyone always looks at, is 0.31 percent – to co-write – at 0.31 percent of the economic performance. This is a very, very good result. I have a philosophy of my own. I say that not only successes and good results should represent a federal government – that is a matter of course, that is basically basic –, in fact, all parties should stand to do so, in fact, the opposition parties should also say: We are Austrian Members of Parliament, we believe that if a negotiation success has been achieved for Austria, why should we make Austria smaller than it is? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Why should we not stand up with pride in Europe because of the successes and achievements: Look at Austria!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. You don't believe that!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Have a survey in your section!]] Mr Kickl, your speech will then bring down the whole stage. Many in the networked society will be able to see what we are discussing here in the Austrian Parliament. Why should we make Austria worse, why should we make Austria smaller? Why are we not all, even in front of the television screens and those watching here, proud of our country and what we have achieved? [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Why are we not proud that we have managed to mitigate the impact of the financial and economic crisis in Austria in such a way that we can stand up and say that the other EU Member States can cut off a joke? It was therefore particularly important for us in this context to succeed and to present this success. And today this special meeting gives us the opportunity to stand before the Austrian public and say: Yes, we have joined Austria as part of a European development, a Europe with which we will exist globally. We are proud of the Austrian model! – And we should represent that together.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e6079	Now Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e6100	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Honourable Members! In fact, this special meeting could have been an opportunity to discuss the European Union, its objectives, its financial framework, and to make it transparent, which one considers reasonable, in which areas of investment is needed, rather than limiting itself to a small discussion, whether one pays more or less than Austrian net payment. I think this is a great opportunity to really discuss Europe's challenges once and for all. Yes, we have problems in Austria – that is indisputable, they are also being discussed; there are also many different proposals to solve them – but we also have problems at European level. And this financial framework, as it has now been presented, is, in my view, a problem and not a solution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are totally unexpected institutions such as the OECD, the International Monetary Fund or the “economist” who are very massive and harshly criticising the European savings rate in the individual countries. This is also understandable: If all states jointly save overruns, then there is a risk of economic recession all the more. And that's why it's just as important to think about it as well: What is reasonable in the European financial framework? In which areas are we now taking additional money to solve European problems in order to balance economic and social imbalances? And: What do we really want to do with that? The only opinion I have heard today was the Youth Employment Guarantee. From my point of view, that is also a very important question. If, in Europe, nearly 6 million young people – in Greece, it is now almost 60 percent, in France, in Spain, every third and fourth youth is unemployed – are no longer able to find a job and no longer have a perspective, then it is not enough for one to vote on it and on 1st. May says that it is the shame of Europe that young people under 25 have to bear the cost of the financial crisis and the banking packages, but in fact something has to be done about it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now we have this employment guarantee, but it is very halfhearted. Europe-wide, these 6 million young people, now expected to be seven years old, have just €6 billion at their disposal, i.e. €150 for every youth. In order to address the problem seriously, it would be necessary to double each year to be able to move something in this area. I think it should be our concern not only to look at the Austrian situation now, but to develop something like an overall strategy across Europe. I was at my son's school today and saw a sign there – the first time with interest. It's a so-called red school; it didn't matter to me before, but there's the sign of an old Social Democratic: Marie Jahoda is her name. It has investigated the phenomenon of unemployment in the 1930s. This was felt to be very interesting at the time, because the worry was that the unemployed are in revolt, so in revolution. However, the result of their investigations was quite different, namely that unemployed people fall into depression in resignation, despair. This is particularly a shame for young people across Europe, which is why this Youth Employment Guarantee is extended, including with Austrian money. That's what we're confessing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to say two sentences on the style of the debate within the government, because that was quite remarkable. We have long heard nothing more serious about European policy issues from the ÖVP. Lopatka is said to be the Secretary of State for Europe, but it is somehow no longer comprehensible what he stands for. The only thing to hear in the run-up to this financial discussion was the net payment discount is important – that is, a proper fixation on it – and the second is agriculture. I'm starting with agriculture: I have no understanding that 39 percent of the total funds spent in the EU budget are still spent mainly on the agricultural industry. 80 per cent of the total volume of these grants goes to 20 per cent of the enterprises in Europe. “Businesses” cannot be said to these agricultural industries at all, but these are large enterprises that have nothing in common with our small-scaled agriculture. That is why I do not at all understand this loss of European agricultural support. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is of no use to first Austria and, second, produces problems in the food sector in the current band. They have been resisting with their hands and feet for years, that at European level we have something like a label of animal husbandry in a very simple form, that we know from which country a piece of meat comes, in which quality the animal was kept and whether it was kept properly. In contrast, you defend yourself with your hands and feet, you have rejected dozens of times that we can look more closely at this industry, this agricultural industry, at European level. Maybe you'll join us today. We are going to introduce the proposal again today, namely a designation of origin for European meat. You know what this looks like: These are huge blocks. Up to a thousand animals are gathered together and no one can understand how the animal was kept, whether it was fair or fair in any form and from which country it came. You can participate today. The European labelling of these meat products would be an important cause. One point I cannot understand is the net payer discussion. How much is Europe worth? . I have calculated once again the figures of Mr Lopatka – supposedly the Secretary of State for Europe – under the line. It means that for the next seven years, Austria will have to spend €500 million more. This is between €70 million and €80 million in the year, depending on how the money is spent. Good, 70, 80 million € are 70, 80 million €. But I'm seriously asking you: Is it really worth starting a family dispute in the government, as if it were bank billions? At €70 million or €80 million you can make something reasonable, but putting it at the heart of a debate in the government is really a European poverty testimonie, a real witness to poverty. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: European enemy!]] I think it is very relevant to say what direction Europe should now develop. We have countries that are partly due with 90 percent of their economic performance. There are partially declining economic data, in some countries negative growth. So you really have to take money into your hands for the next seven years. This also has an Austrian added value. The following is also understandable: If an investment initiative is set up across Europe, it simply has a stronger leverage than only in one country. And this has always been of immense benefit to Austria, even in the past. That is why it is not understandable to shorten that to a discussion “we or the others”. This is about Austria, about European interests, and we should discuss them a little more seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another important concern for European investment policy in the coming years is the energy transition. It is a key project to reduce energy dependence and energy imports. We now have a Europe-wide dependence on energy imports of almost half a billion euros, almost half the EU budget. This continues to increase, but the energy imports are falling. And more and more people are getting into an energy trap, not just in Austria. One of the key projects is: Saving energy, energy efficiency, switching to renewable energy sources. A youth employment guarantee, which really deserves this name, is also available in the field of internal European research and university institutions: All of these are debateable projects that actually have a meaning – and not a disgraceful and small-spirited net payer discussion, which does not take us further even in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Put on the table what you want! If you say that every euro is too much, then ask for EU withdrawal, because every cent is too much for you too. For you, this money is exclusively sunk, but you are in no way able to explain even what your European policy ideas are, what to take money for, and what not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e6190	Mr Klubobmann's head is now on the table. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e6221	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate Seers and Advisors! This medium-term financial framework of the European Union should be assessed in a very differentiated manner from 2014 onwards. But: Even if there is no reason for exaggeration, there can and must be no doubt that the European Union is an indispensable project to ensure peace and prosperity in Europe. And this project must also be worth something to us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This means, ladies and gentlemen, that the European Union must continue to be able to act effectively, even financially, when it comes to strengthening structurally weak regions. It is one of the main objectives of this European integration that we are trying to bring structurally weaker regions to economic strength, to the prosperity of stronger regions, so that all that Mr Cap referred to earlier, namely economic migration, the escape of people from these poor conditions, does not take place, because we also help them with the help of the poor and help them to take advantage of opportunities in their home country instead of looking for them with us. A second one: The European Union must remain operational when it comes to pushing forward areas such as research, education and infrastructure – no question at all. But it is also a matter of ensuring and ensuring, ladies and gentlemen, the domestic food production of our farmers financially and financially, and there is also a need for financial action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Strache, I do not understand why you are now criticising the leaders of the Federal Government and saying that they would speak here like EU Commissioners. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Yes, yes, quite incomprehensible!]] – Where should there be the difference in the common objective? In what I said before – to make Europe stronger, economically stronger, in terms of prosperity, but by, of course, also creating this compensation – the expression of an EU Commissioner should not differ from that of a German Chancellor or vice chancellor in my view, because this objective should be one of us. [[Abg. After good night!]] One thing has to be clear to us: That's not to our harm! Austria has benefited greatly from its membership in the European Union since 1995, since we have been a member. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who says that? You?]] We have an additional annual economic growth of 0.6 percent. We have 14 000 additional jobs each year in Austria, thanks to the better opportunities we have through membership of the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Part-time jobs!]] – It can be seen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, most of the Member States have to save because of the debt crisis, which unfortunately was also caused by the fact that some have lived over their circumstances in the past. [[Abg. Krainer: This is always the same old nonsense!]] It is perfectly legitimate that, as a paying, net-paying member country, we too demand from the European Union at least a small amount of savings, which is why the budget, as Mr Vice-Chancellor has already mentioned, has now been reduced by this 3%. This is absolutely acceptable as mutual solidarity: Just as we practice them in the direction of the other Member States, the EU as an institution must also exercise solidarity with the payers. It is our right to demand such a thing in such a difficult situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria has set four goals for these negotiations. [[Abg. New builder: Net, Veto,!]] We said first: lower total budget – that has been achieved. Then: Strengthening the future areas of research, education, infrastructure – this has increased by 37 percent. I admit that I would like to see even stronger initiatives and greater commitment in the future, but in the context of a reduced budget it is quite remarkable that this shift has succeeded. And now to the most important area: We are committed to both the pillars of agricultural support, to direct payments as well as to promoting rural development. Both are important so that we can also strengthen regions with a weaker internal structure and that we can have comparable living conditions in all regions of Austria as far as possible. To this end, farmers contribute significantly both through rural development and their activity there, as well as, of course, through direct activity in production. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Overall, ladies and gentlemen, this outcome, as I believe, is acceptable. There's no reason to rejoice, but when 27 sit at a negotiating table, it's clear: That's where a compromise comes out. Finally, each member must be able to represent, respect and accept this outcome at home. [[Abg. Kickl: This must be particularly difficult for the recipients!]] In this respect, it is a tiresome compromise. But I say: Better a compromise than no result at all. – This should be the debate, also for us here in the House, not only on this subject, but also on other issues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yeah, it's true: The net payer position of Austria has deteriorated relatively when it comes to the real figures and not the limits. But that's no reason to be sorry, and there's no reason to rejoice. Europe, I have already said, must be worth something to us because we benefit from it, as well as many other European countries. That means that Europe must be worth something to us, because it also has a value for us. That must be clear to us. [[Abg. Petzner: But you also say that differently every time! Once that way, once in a while!]] And that's why, ladies and gentlemen: Let's stop with the Lamentos! We must make every effort to get the available resources now, in fact, through the best possible support of national activities, to drive forward the structural development of Austria. And let's not forget one thing, ladies and gentlemen: Austria is a profiter of this European integration under the rule.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e6410	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e6431	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Cap said today that he was just too disappointed that the opposition parties today do not agree that we should pay more to Brussels in the next seven years. Mr Cap, it might be worth considering if we were in a situation where we were to operate in such a way as to keep us under the rule. But remember that Austria makes 10 billion € more debts year after year. The debt tower rises from year to year. The burden on our children and grandchildren will increase over the next few years and decades, and you will send your party leader, our Federal Chancellor with even more money in his pocket, with even more money promises to Brussels – money that our Austrians have not yet earned in our country. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Dr Graf and Mr Strache.]] This is the reality: They promise money in the next seven years, which has not yet been achieved in our country. And this, although we still make new debts every year, with this woman's Minister of Finance. That's the reality! If we had left behind money, we could discuss some million in addition to this great community of values, which Mr Kopf has just conspired, for this largest peace project in the world, to which we also stand, which is worth something to us. But, Mr Kopf, this has been very, very valuable to us for over a decade now. Can I figure this out for you? We have been net payers in the European Union for over ten years. And it doesn't stop. All the money promises and money demands don't end. Every few months, the Federal Government comes into this house and says: We need even more money for rescue packages, for marode countries, for banks. They can't get enough of all the taxpayers promised here. And it is still too little, although then the talk of the peace project is always about solidarity. We can't hear that again! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Dr Graf and Mr Strache.]] If I talk to the people for whom all the money would have been, they won't get the money. They don't get any money. Ask if you meet with people outside your entire negotiations in the countries, for example in Greece: They don't get any money! The money goes into all the banks to remove their liabilities from the speculation transactions. – That’s the reality! Solidarity goes beyond people and problems. That's the truth! And we should finally talk about those here, and not always about this seeming solidarity, which does not fit together in the back and in the front and does not correspond to reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The question is, how long can Austria afford to make these permanent payments to Brussels, at these incalculable heights, including the liabilities? How long can we afford to have no money with us for the essential things of our lives? Then in the SPÖ jubilation broke out when the Federal Chancellor said that we must pay these billions of benefits. – How can you make it clear to the many unemployed people in Austria that, full of pride, you are making these billions of promises? – I don't understand! In Austria, 400 000 people who do not even have a perspective are looking for work. Youth unemployment is increasing. 60,000 young people in Austria have no job, Mr. Federal Chancellor! They're worried about the Spaniards and the Portuguese. You are Federal Chancellor of Austria! Finally, take care of the people here in our country if you want to be elected! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Your speech, which I have heard today, is an appeal to the European Union. Do you want to become an EU Commissioner, or are you looking for a post after you were Federal Chancellor in Austria? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Yes, exactly!]] Otherwise, it's impossible to understand. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Dr Graf and Mr Strache.]] Mr Fischler has started just as much as you do. It's all I'm saying is: Brussels, Brussels, Brussels – and at the end of the day you forgot where you came from. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He already forgot!]] Give up citizenship and also give up your government responsibility! Finally, step back to the government bank and take the withdrawal! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They are not able to solve the problem here in Austria, but they are behind the Brussels bureaucracy and are trying to swim there in some way. But this is a betrayal of your responsibility. They have been elected to represent the interests of the Austrians, not the Brussels interests, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: What are you so nervous about?]] The image of the ÖVP speaks volumes alone: Every Austrian has seen it on the day of the negotiations, Faymann is driving to Brussels and has already promised the money. – Mr Bundeskanzler, this is, as it were, a negotiator with intent that you have made! [[Abg. Strache: A crasher with a start!]] You promised the money before. This is the same as if you want to buy a car that's written with €30 000 and you go to the negotiation and say to the car seller: I offer 35 000 €. Mr Bundeskanzler, if you are working with your private money in this way, this should be right for us, that is your money, but you are dealing here with hard-earned tax billions. You promise tax billions here that are not even earned in Austria! That's why it's a shameless thing that you've shown here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Where was Spindelegger?]] The one, the Federal Chancellor, promises the billions in Brussels, the other champagnes at the opera ball, and is delighted that so much money goes to Brussels by taxpayers. [[Abg. Grosz: He's been so important!]] The ÖVP – quite typical in its attitude – is waving a bit with the veto club to secure a few headlines, and then retrace the retreat day after day. We know that this is the typical game at government level, to put everything into the shoes of the Federal Chancellor and to do it yourself as if you weren't there. You are all in the Federal Government, you are all responsible for the whole mess, both at European level and in Austria. Therefore, you should all step back and finally clear the chair.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e6595	Mrs Mag. Muttons now speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e6617	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bucher, your cries and your artificial excitement do not make your statements more credible either. We hear this again and again, you stand here and roar into the round, but your statements do not become more credible. I want to prove this to you, too. When Wolfgang Schüssel negotiated a much worse result in 2005, you said the following – I quote –: [[Abg. Bucher: That's a long time ago!]] "At last understand that we need to strengthen Europe, that we can only do this together and that Austria must therefore make an important contribution! This, ladies and gentlemen, - as you say - will “bring work, employment, growth and social security in Europe! However, Austria must also make a significant contribution to this.’ This, ladies and gentlemen, was the statement of the same honourable Member, Bucher, who just said the opposite in five minutes ago. [[Abg. Grosz: Mrs Muttonen, what did Mr Cap say in 2005?]] That's why your statements are not credible either. The new financial framework is a good compromise, ladies and gentlemen, for many reasons. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was clear from the outset that negotiations on the multiannual financial framework would be particularly difficult this time because the positions of the individual states are so far apart. It was a very difficult starting point for Austria in particular. It was still discussed in November that all discounts should be removed and that there should also be no additional funding for rural areas. This would have cost a total of €2 billion. Therefore, the European Voice was right to vote on 14 May. In February 2013 a report on these negotiations wrote: Austria went to the summit with the most vulnerable position of all the Member States. – If you look at this situation, you can say that it is all the more successful to have obtained additional money for Austria in all these areas, under difficult conditions and through consistent negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare to predict that our contribution could de facto be even less. It has recently been shown that we Austrians are masters in the collection of funding for the numerous projects co-financed by the EU. In particular, I would like to highlight the agreement on the EU budget as well as the new fund to combat youth unemployment. These €6 billion are reserved to get young people back into employment. We have already heard it, in the EU there are currently 5.5 million young people without employment, in Greece it is 62 percent, according to the latest figures. Greece has thus overtaken Spain, which is about 55 percent. It can already be said that youth unemployment is currently one of the most serious problems in the EU. I am therefore very glad that we have taken this important step in the right direction and take the social problems seriously. There is now a comprehensive package of measures at European level: the new fund and, in this case, Austria, the Youth Guarantee, which guarantees young people that they should get a job or a training within four months. Every euro we invest against youth unemployment is a good euro. The investments planned in future areas such as research, education and infrastructure are also important. For the expansion of rail networks, €20 billion is available, and Austria is particularly benefiting from these transnational rail networks. Mr Bucher, why do you not say in Carinthia that: You're against the coral tunnel? [[Abg. Bucher: I am not against it!]] Why does Mr Dörfler not say that he is against the Koralm Tunnel that he is against the subsidies for Austria and also for Carinthia? As measured by economic performance, Austria is one of the richest countries in Europe, we have worked hard and we must be clear that this is also largely related to EU membership. [[Abg. List: thematic failure!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Just because you don't understand!]] It is the EU principle that we help the weaker countries. Whoever therefore criticizes the slightly higher payments to the EU, in reality also criticizes our economic success, and we do not participate in that. I congratulate you on this outcome of the negotiations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e6717	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar is now speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e6739	Madam President. High house! Mr Cap, I have followed your speech with a lot of attention and really must say: A brilliant speech! As you manage to reinterpret such a great failure into such an excellent success, is truly impressive. I would recommend you, perhaps after your career here in the High House coach of the football national team, you might need your skills. At least we would be verbal world champions if you managed to recoup a failure of this kind into a success. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If you look closely at it, we have ultimately lost our discount to a very large extent and get fewer promotions. That means we lost on two levels. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Above all, we don't have an Austro-Euro!]] We will now pay hundreds of billions more – for a European Union that is urgently in need of reform, but we will still be able to do so. Now I wonder why you see the SPÖ so positive when your government partner ÖVP – Mr. Kopf, for example – looks at it very soberly and says it was not a good success, but it could have been much worse. Mr Lopatka expressed it even more precisely. He said: Finally, we have made a serious failure here. It was a serious failure because we got out of all countries the worst. That's what I'm asking myself: Why? If I listen to the chancellor today, who says, in the end, we would have to pay a lot more because we're so good at economics, I wonder: Where are we so good at economics? - Maybe in debt? [[Call the SPÖ: This is the wrong speech!]] Or, as we heard today: We have benefited so much from this European Union. – What have we benefited? In the end, we have had to participate in an ESM, where we are the largest payers with Germany. This means that we are already in the process of distributing our money and our prosperity and thus transferring it to the other countries. And now the government is coming and saying that it could have been much worse?! – Yes, of course, it can still be worse, but success was certainly none. And once we go away, we'll pay hundreds of millions more now: We could have used these negotiations to negotiate something, namely reforms. We want all the reforms! You said it today, too, Mr Cap. You said we wanted reforms in this EU. And why have we not yanked our contribution payments with the reform of the European Union? – There are some areas: There is, for example, the insanity of funding where, according to the European Court of Auditors, €5 billion is reduced. 5 billion each year – and this is only the official figures, the dark figures are still a lot higher – are simmering in the European Union in the promotions. Or: We could have addressed the 46 000 officials in the European Union, each of whom deserves more than the German Chancellor. – Now you can say that’s true, because she doesn’t do a good job anyway, but in the end the question is: Do 4 600 officials in the European Union have to earn more than the German Chancellor? Does that have to be? – We could have negotiated this too. Or, for example, the hiking circus, which is always performed there. After all, €200 million is wasted every year for parliamentarians to move from Brussels to Strasbourg once a month and then return to Strasbourg, all just to satisfy French vanity. Is that necessary? And couldn't we have combined this with our contribution payments? Here in the government you can also: If the SPÖ wants to do something and the ÖVP should give something, it will always be connected with things that do not necessarily have something to do with each other. This is where client policy is being made. Here it is seen that if you give something on the one hand, you get something on the other side. This has suddenly been learned in the European Union. There's no way to say: If you want more money from us, we also want you to make reforms, we also want the money to be used where we need it. - That's exactly the point. And the reason why the European Union is not committed to this is: That's where it pays only the taxpayer. It's not about your own clientele, it's all happening. And if it all happens when it hits all taxpayers, then it doesn't matter. But if it is the clients of the SPÖ or the clientele of the ÖVP, then it is fought until the last man. We have often experienced this in the past. But in the EU, if only taxpayers, everyone, pay, it doesn't matter. That's exactly this wrong thinking, and that's why: If there has already been a plea against youth unemployment here today, what is right and good – of course, we must not only do something about youth unemployment in Austria, no, also against those in Europe, no question – would it not be more reasonable for us to use the money that is being sent into the European Union, which is for corruption, which is for things that we do not need to use where we need it, namely in employment for young people? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I only bring a single example of wine production: One billion € is wasted each year in the production of wine. Why? – On the one hand, we promote that more is produced, and on the other hand, there are set-aside premiums. What's going on? – The promotion will produce more than we need. And not what we then rethink and finally steer the promotions in such a way that less production is produced, no, we leave these high funding quotas, then spend over €300 million to produce pure alcohol from this surplus wine – and since we cannot sell it in Europe, we will spend more than €200 million to export it to Africa! That's what you're really asking yourself: What's that supposed to mean? – And we could connect exactly such things: If the European Union wants more money from us, then we want it to finally make reforms. – That’s exactly the point, and I don’t understand why we don’t connect it. Why is our government unable to act there as other countries do, such as the UK? The British keep making it that they enrich themselves. We don't even want to. That's not what I want here. I do not want anything but to link our contribution to the fact that we are finally bringing about reforms in this EU and maintaining this peace project in the long term. That is precisely the point: They say that you are concerned about this peace project, but you are endangering this peace project with this approach. By simply transferring more money here without talking about the reforms at risk It is this cohesion in Europe. - That's the point. That's why: We simply need more self-confidence at the European level! We are net payers – of course Austria is a small country, but nevertheless we are net payers – and as net payers, we could finally come up with a little more courage and persuasiveness and say: [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] Dear friends, if you do not make the reforms, we will not be willing to make our contribution here either. It's easy! This is a very simple message, which is certainly also good in the EU. And finally, other countries have proved it: It works, and you can do something. And now, in order to give you the proof, as it were, whether you are interested or not, we now demand that we finally stop this millioneur walking district of the bureaucrats between Brussels and Strasbourg: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This motion for a resolution is so general and would only move positively. And now I'm excited to see if you're going here, because in the end, If you refuse to do so, and if you say that we will not work to ensure that this €200 million – this is just an example of many people who are going to see everything that is going to be changed – will not be spent at last because no one needs it – that is absolutely counterproductive, and everyone who has to do with it says it is hindering work, costs a lot of money and does not bring anything to anyone; the only ones are the French, whose vanity is to be satisfied with it – so if you do not agree here today, then we know that in the end it is not a question of putting this European Union on good feet and starting reforms, but it is only a question of making themselves available to all dear children. And that is exactly what we reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e6840	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e6899	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e6922	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! I am in favour of a realistic view of the current financial framework, because this is precisely what the European Union has to say when compared to earlier times: that it is possible today to debate, debate, put it in relation – and this saves us wars and other conflicts in Europe. That is the value in itself, ladies and gentlemen, that there are debates about a European budget. And that's good. It is precisely this love for this Europe and for this agreement of the European continent that we also demand that we take seriously the issue here. And that is why, of course, calls, from any one side, are that those who carry a budget without If and But, and who say no word of criticism, are good Europeans, and all others are only half as good Europeans, in any case, ladies and gentlemen. And then you just have to look at things realistically. I actually wanted to save you the comparison, but because both Klubobmann Cap and Mrs. Muttonen have criticised the negotiations at the time by Chancellor Schüssel and meant that they were so bad, I would just like to point to the discount: In the period 2007 – 2013, the discount over the entire period was €1.3 billion, and for the future period 2014 – 2020 it will be €805 million. That's the difference, Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig, you mentioned, this €500 million. That's not all yet, but at least that's worse if you want to. – So I accept Your political appreciation, alone: This has nothing to do with the budget figures, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It depends on what!]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: The budget has been cut by 3.5 percent!]] I found it quite amusing how Mr. Klubobmann strache “went up” when himself came to the chest of drumming lion and meant that he would fight like a lion for the Austrian budget in Brussels. I assume that our Federal Government has fought here, perhaps with a bit finer blade, too – for in Brussels it is so that some who have risen there as a lion have suddenly landed as bedheads; of course, Mr. Klubobmann would have to watch out for the same thing. What's this about? – It is about setting accents with the new EU budget, setting important accents, and I believe that this has been perfectly achieved in some areas. Consider, for example, the field of research: Here we have an increase of 54.9 billion to 69.1 billion €. In education we have an increase of 9.1 billion to 13.1 billion €, with the infrastructure from 12.9 to 19.3 billion €. And then, because this has been addressed, of course, we also need to debate it – there is already the right thing for my colleague Glawischnig: What is a European task and what is a national task? If one comes to the conclusion that, for example, the active labour market policy in question is a European task, and we have set up a budget of €6 billion, of which €3 billion, i.e. about half, “only” – under quotation marks – is fresh money, that is, new money, then this does not seem sufficient for a pan-European task. But otherwise, it is natural to take the position – and I do – that this is primarily a national task. Take a look at the Federal Republic of Germany: It uses around €40 billion for active labour market policies – only in comparison. This shows that, of course, it is first and foremost a national effort, in which Austria is extremely successful. So, overall, I think, one can say, if one considers those areas in which the European Union wants to set priorities, where it spends more money, that these priorities are set correctly; and given that the overall budget is reduced, because savings are simply a command of the hour, and that it was ultimately necessary to achieve a result, also in the sense of the stability of Europe and the stability of the euro, this is a quite acceptable result, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e6978	Mr Hübner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e7031	Mr Amon, you have at least disputed and made it clear: The Austrian position as a payer in the EU has only worsened in absolute terms and relative to the other countries. We pay more, we have less discount, and we get less. We pay a higher net contribution and slide in the net payer scale in the direction of the surplus payers. Our contribution increases and therefore also worsens relatively. Well, that's where you can say how the Greens mean: That's great, because the more we pay, the better! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The question is, what for!]] The Green Group has said in the discussions that the EU budget should be doubled. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Tell me what for! What would you like to do, European? What?]] But you can also think that this may have been a bit badly negotiated and it is not quite true what the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor have said. Mr Bundeskanzler has also tried at least today to give the impression that he would have been committed to Austrian interests and would have fought for our discount, for our net payment margin, for contributions to rural areas and so on. - Yes, here. But look at this: What does he say outside of Austria? What does he say outside this Parliament? And there he is in good company with many other parliamentarians. Let us quote from his speech of 15. January 2013, Federal Chancellor Faymann held during the twelfth debate on the future of the European Union in Strasbourg. He kept it in German, so there are no translation errors and misunderstandings either. Faymann starts with: 'Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Commission. I'm glad you found time. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it is a special honor for me to be with you and to have a discussion with you. ” Now you can say: This is a very polite introduction, and Faymann is still a well-educated man, but now he will certainly represent the Austrian positions. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] – Let us take a look at a few paragraphs in the text of his statements. There he speaks of the net payers, and one thinks that he should show a net payer, that is one who sacrifices for the community that cleans up more than he pulls out of the cash. Faymann said: "Net payers only mean that, compared to the deposits and what you get in direct subsidies, net payment remains. But it does not say anything about how, for example, we in Austria benefit from exporting to other countries and that many Austrian companies are very successful in other European Union countries." [[Call at the SPÖ: Where is the mistake?]] “This too is an advantage for a country. And that’s also to be calculated if you’re talking about the net contribution. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] You like that, of course. [[Call the SPÖ: “Leader”!]] Of course, you can relativize all of this and make it small. That's how I go into a discussion, saying: Net to pay, that's nothing anyway, that's actually an advantage! – That means if I'm a net payer,... [[Abg. Strache: This is an advantage for the SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Amon: But better than receiving net is already!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Well, well, if I'm going to talk, where I'm dealing with it: If I wanted to pay more or less net?, I would fight for this position as a representative of Austria. And I don't even have to fight like a lion – because you found it so funny before – but I have to fight like a rabbit and at least say as a rabbit: Well, we already do net payments, that's something we do!, and can't say: Net payments, that's an advantage, and the more we pay net, the better! – I wouldn’t see that as a sensible argument. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then, in a verbal paragraph, the Federal Chancellor once called for a union of debts – that is also “very” in the interests of Austria – a “debt relief fund and thus a further development towards a common management of bonds”; that is what it is called. [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: Yes, and?]] This is a step in the right direction.Unknown term type: "%s".? – Well, that’s “very” in the Austrian sense that together we manage the debts of Spain, Greece, Cyprus and Co. But then it goes on, and of course this is about the discounts: “If we stop talking about the discounts at the financial framework and say that we invest together in training and in over-company teaching workshops, this must be a little worth in a society in Europe!” [[Abg. Strache: Rejoicing in the Austrian population!]] So Faymann wants to stop talking about discounts. This is also “very good” if, though not like a lion, you defend it, and say: Let's stop talking about the discounts! – This is also a “good” thing. Then Faymann says – and please listen carefully now, because that was literally written! –: “I know that Austria also represents the position, if all keep the discounts, Austria must also keep the discount.” Faymann does not say that I represent the point of view, but he says: “I know that Austria also represents the point of view”, if everyone keeps the discounts, we should also keep it. – Which means nothing other than: I don't represent him. Now I could bring some other quotations, but that would eat my speaking time, and that's a bit bad. [[Keep calling the SPÖ:Well, keep going!]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Read more!]] [[Further call at the SPÖ:Read more!]] I believe that this is sufficient once for the Federal Chancellor's position and for the defence of our interests there. Mr Spindelegger, I can't take you out of the way either. As far as I am aware, you have not spoken at this meeting – at least I have not obtained a copy; I do not think you have been present either. You have told us today that you do not understand that some Members at European level do not want to save Europe. They also said that the demand of the Greens, namely the European demand, not the Glavischnig demand of today; it did not put it that way – the doubling of the budget would be dangerous. They say: The net contribution, which has grown bigger and we lose funding, these are drops of advertising, but we will catch up with the ability of the Austrian companies. But now I'm wondering, We had your group leader in the European Parliament, Mr Karas, here in the EU Committee two weeks ago. Mr Karas has told us that we must not talk about numbers at all. It is not the question of what it costs and what we pay is the only question: What does the European Union need to do to fulfil its tasks? [[Call the FPÖ: That's how it looks!]] Who do you want me to believe? The gigl or the gogl? - Excuse me for the clear words! – The Vice-Chancellor or the leader of the political groups in the European Parliament? The Austrian interests are not likely to be credible either. It is not enough for you to talk about this – you did not say it, but, I believe, the Secretary of State – that you have to fight like a lion and that you have to use the veto threat if at the same time Your group leaders in the European Parliament say that it is not a question of numbers at all, but it must be paid what is to be paid. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, in the case of such a defence of interests, which is only held verbally in Parliament in front of ongoing cameras, but not in front of the corresponding forums, there is nothing else but the To talk away completely and to say: Well, we're paying more now, but that's what's going on in youth employment. – The Federal Chancellor always uses the beautiful words of the Youth Employment Guarantee: We pay in to the EU, and for that we get a Youth Employment Guarantee. I don't know how it will go. Are the 45 or 48 percent unemployed young people in Spain then employed by the EU or, I don't know, by our net payment contribution? I heard from you, Mr Amon, and that was right! – labour policy must be made nationally, i.e. an apprenticeship training must be made nationally; it will be difficult to do so in Brussels or at the second seat in Strasbourg. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The framework conditions for employment, the conditions for growth must be created nationally. Training must be done nationally, this does not make us the European Commission! That is, if we now put a few hundred million more into the pot, then there will not necessarily be a rise in youth employment. Mr Cap, you say that high and highest employment in Austria is one of the consequences of the European Union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] - That's just one thing I'm wondering: In Austria, the European Union is responsible for the highest and highest employment, and who is responsible for this in Spain and Greece. [[Abg. But in Spain?- Oh, my God!]] Could it not be that the employment rate has other reasons than the European Union? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Could it not be that, despite various mismanagements by the European Union, we have a high and highest level of employment because in Austria we carry out a variety of homework, because we have an effective, successful and well-trained substrate to entrepreneurs and workers who are responsible for it? [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] In conclusion, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, it is only the funds that are absolutely necessary to enable meaningful coordination of and meaningful agreements between the European countries, and the maximum use of the own funds and taxpayers themselves, where they can be used most efficiently and democraticly, because they can be used by ourselves, by the countryside and the local authorities, on the ground, in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e7294	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e7315	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hübner, you mentioned a number of paragraphs from Werner Faymann's speech to the European Parliament earlier. I think you could have used your entire speaking time to quote only this speech. There would have been much more reason for applause here in the house, because that was an impressive idea by the Federal Chancellor. And he was perfectly right in that it was a great honor: It was only the second time in the history of the European Parliament that a head of government of a country outside of a presidency was invited to give a speech and that is why Werner Faymann can only be congratulated on this invitation and for this speech. [[Abg. May. Haider: Spectator!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Bravo, Jan!]] We are debating the budget of the European Union. When we look at this, there is first of all a revenue page, and it works in the European Union in such a way that everyone – thumbs times pi – pays about 1 percent of their economic performance. Now this is always designed for seven years, and now the question arises: How has this changed in the individual countries over the last seven years? More than half of the countries today have less economic performance than before the crisis. On average, the European Union does not have the economic performance it had before the crisis. Austria is one of the very few countries where economic performance is higher than before the crisis. So, with regard to expectation, it's quite simple: What's going to happen? Will the Austrian gross contribution rise or will it fall? – He will rise because we are more rich than one of the few. That's like when ten friends meet, and one of the ten got a salary increase, all the others got a reduction. Who will pay more taxes than before? – After the one who got the salary increase! We have become richer than one of the few states in the last seven years, because most have not come through the crisis as well as Austria. And if you're richer, you pay a higher contribution, of course. There has been expectation, we pay less than before, absurd! There is one person who has not understood Europe, or he does not want Europe at all, and he really wants to leave what some in this House seem to want. – Only as much as Europe works and what one can expect from such budgetary processes. The second is the expenditure page. - Yes, there are discounts. If you look at this and count all the discounts – not only the British discount and the sales tax discount, but also the means of allocation – this is even more so! But where will the funds flow in Europe? – Please, fewer people across Europe today have a job than before the crisis. It is only in very few countries that this is the other way round, for example in Austria: In Austria today more people have a job than before the crisis. This is because we have made a very good policy in Austria and have therefore come through this crisis much better than most other countries. So where will the expenditure flow now? – Where there is a lot of employment, where people on average have become richer than before the crisis, or where there is more unemployment, where people are poorer and where there are much greater problems in the economic structure? Where will the funds first flow? – Of course, where they are needed more and where they are needed more! That is, the expectation at the beginning of the debate, namely that Austria should pay less but get equal amounts of money, was absurd and non-reality! But what does it look like? – Under the rule, our net contribution in the last period, as negotiated by Federal Chancellor Schüssel in 2005, amounted to 0.33 percent of GDP. What's the result now? – 0.31 percent. We can only congratulate the Federal Chancellor on this result that, despite these conditions – we have become richer, unlike the rest of Europe, there are more jobs – our net contribution is falling! There you can only congratulate! I don't know why there should be a bitter side-taste, except perhaps that Chancellor Faymann has negotiated better than Chancellor Schüssel. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Matznetter and Mag. Gaßner.]] That's the only bitter side-taste you might think of, but certainly none. Now we're comparing: That's the budget, that's the numbers. The execution was always better, however, because Austria has always said that we do not leave money in Brussels, but we pick up everything. That's not what all countries do. The money that is not collected may be collected either by those who can pick up more, or it will return to the States. This has not been done by Austria, so the net contribution of Austria has been lower than it was in the budget. If you now compare the real net contribution we had in execution with that on the paper of the new period, then this is a comparison of apples and pears. On the paper it is now in the budget that our net contribution is falling, and that is a success. Finally, on the subject of youth unemployment. It is precisely because I commend this speech by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in the European Parliament and this proposal he has made, namely: Let us remove all the discounts for all countries, and use the money for the most pressing problem in the European Union, namely youth unemployment and unemployment! – This has been a big, truly European proposal. It has not been implemented one too one, no, but for the first time at European level there are real funds, namely €6 billion, precisely for this burning problem, that we have almost two thirds of youth unemployment in individual regions of Europe, which is also said by the European level: Here we must become active! – This is also due to the initiative of Federal Chancellor Faymann, and to this result you can only congratulate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e7383	Now comes Mr Mag. Rossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e7406	Madam President. High house! For the first time in the history of the European Union, we will have a financial framework with less resources than the predecessor. This has led the President of the European Parliament in the Financial Times yesterday to call this financial framework the largest retro-financial framework in the history of the European Union – not quite wrong, I think. Because we look at ourselves – compared to the current financial framework – where we are today and where we were then when the Financial Framework was created between 2007 and 2013. Today, large parts of the European Union, in particular the euro zone, are in a recession. - Point one. Point two: EU-wide, an austerity course is being run at all costs, which, by the way, is now highly criticised, not only by keynesian-oriented economists, but also by the top economist of the International Monetary Fund, Olivier Blanchard, who says that this European austerity rate will lead Europe down to the lowest level and Europe into a lost decade. Third point: This shortened European financial framework is not sufficient to achieve the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy. This includes high targets: more sustainable growth, more for climate protection, more for energy efficiency, less people living in poverty by 20 million people – yes, by 20 million people!; from day to day, the number of those living in poverty – and much more. That is why the European Parliament – and not just its President – is guilty, because Othmar Karas and many others have gone here and said that this financial framework leads Europe into a debt trap. That is because these €960 billion, on which one has agreed, are in fact only €908 billion in payments. However, this means a massive reduction in what we had in the framework of 2007 to 2013. If the Federal Chancellor says that the funds have remained essentially the same, this is not the case: This does not apply to commitments, nor does it apply to payments. On the one hand. On the other hand, it cannot be that we are dealing with the European problems ahead of us, which we have to solve at present and in the future, with yesterday's expenditure structures. In 2007, the output conditions were quite different than they are today. – Yes, we are dealing with a recession today, we are dealing with mass unemployment today – we can say that calmly – the climate situation has worsened, the financial crisis is not solved by us, and the European Union’s responses are always the same: We need to save, save, save! This is also reflected in this course. And second: We must become more competitive! Yes, I am involved in making us more competitive, but that also means that we have to change the structures. If, as a Europe, we want to take a place in the global challenge that is one of the leading in comparison with the USA, Brazil, and India, then we must do something in the European field. It is not enough to maintain the existing structures, since it is not enough to transfer 39 percent of the funds to the agricultural sector, but at last to invest more strongly where it is necessary, namely in research, in innovation, in education, in science, in cross-border networks. Here a little more money is taken in hand, but far too little. And if this new initiative for youth employment has been referred to so many times, and if, for example, by Mr Amon, it has also been said, yes, the fight against unemployment is, as it were, primarily a national matter. Date: Yeah, she's already, but not just! This is also a European matter, and the more common European funds flow into the fight against unemployment, the higher the European added value is – I will come back to it again. These €6 billion, which are used to combat youth unemployment for 5.6 million unemployed, is a drop on a hot stone! This also applies only to regions in Europe whose unemployment rate among young people is higher than 25 percent. This is a declaration of bankruptcy to create such a programme, because, in other words, to accept that we have European zones where youth unemployment is 25 percent. That's the latte that's accepted! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. New builder.]] We have to get down there clearly! We must give the young people of Europe a chance, and this is certainly not the case with these structures. And because in the last few days I've been under attack and I've been interrupted, I'd be for the scrapping of taxpayers and I wouldn't have a heart for the farmers: I have never said that the greens are at their disposal for a reduction in rural funds. I have always said that there must be repatriation of the first pillar, of direct payments, into the second pillar. By the way, I have been very committed to increasing the funding for rural development, but this funding is available not only to farmers and farmers and farmers, but to all the people who live in rural areas. There are problems to be solved without numbers, and that is the way we really want to go and have to go. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, with these structures, which, as it were, very strongly support the agro-industrial industry – it must be borne in mind that 80 percent of the funds from the agricultural sector flow to only 20 percent of farms – we will not come forward with this backward strategy in Europe. So, a tedious chance, a bankruptcy statement, if you want to. Now a few remarks on the net payer debate. – Yes, Austria will pay more, namely a maximum of 0.31 percent of gross national income, as we have heard. But let us look at Article 3 of the European Treaty, which says the following – and this has been written in the main book, which has not yet arrived in Europe today, from the FPÖ to the BZÖ to many parts also the EIA, to the Secretary of State for Europe, I must say: The EU is “promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion and solidarity” in Europe. European solidarity, yes! We also have a financial compensation nationally, and the European financial framework is nothing but a financial compensation, i.e. it is distributed between richer regions and poorer regions. But – and this is the important point – these additional payments that we have to make as a rich country, I say now, in the sense of solidarity, these payments face enormous European added value. Yesterday I had the chance to listen to a presentation by Andreas Wörgotter of the OECD, and he said that in the last 15 years about 1 percent of economic growth, which is on average 2 percent, is due to integration – 1 percent of growth! This, of course, generates tax revenue and ensures jobs and growth to an extent that goes far beyond what we in Austria have to pay as net payers to the European Union. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's high in time, I'd say we finally get away from this net payment debate. This is because only national interests will be represented, and the European objectives will be completely forgotten. The EU budget is much more than the sum of national interests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] This is also the Secretary of State for Europe – he is no longer sitting there now – actually written into the master book. He, like Mr Vice-Chancellor, has threatened with the vetoicle in the run-up to the crisis if not the national interests are fulfilled. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] But it is not about these national interests, it is about European policy! But as it seems, much of this European policy objective has already been put on the nail. Yes, with this European financial framework, we will not be able to solve the challenges of the future. What we need is a higher dosage. As Mr Vice-Chancellor or also Mr von der FPÖ, who meant that we Greens would have called for a doubling, I say: I didn't do that in any committee! We have always called for one thing: at least 5 percent compared with 2013 – that is also the European Parliament's demand. However, we would be well advised in the long term if, according to the model, we were to invest more in this European financial framework, and we would also be well advised if we were finally to replace the contribution payments with own funds payments. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e7533	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e7558	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Rossmann, just to repeat, in your APA message is literally the following: ‘In essence, old structures would be rewritten’ and ‘it would be oversized in the agricultural sector’. If today Mrs Glawischnig goes out here and literally said that she has zero understanding of agriculture, then today you have dropped the mask. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Pirklhuber is obviously suffering because he's not here today – at least I haven't seen him until now. But that shows again that he has nothing to talk about. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You suffer from hearing weakness or loss of understanding!]] Although Pirklhuber announces in public statements that he is in favour of agriculture, where the Greens are at home, they have made this clear today. At least they have clearly said that they have nothing left for the farmers. – The farmers should know about this in front of the TV screens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can see that interview in which colleague Langthaler, who once was a member of the Greens, said: ‘Sometimes there are also stupid proposals from the opposition’. [[The speaker holds a section of the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”.]] - I don't have anything to add to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Strache said today that Austria was a drama as far as unemployment is concerned. – We forget that Austria has the best values. He has also made it happen today that we have been shown to sell Austria and pay too much money to the European Union. At the same time, we hear from him all the time in various budget speeches, but one could save in Austria, using the funds more efficiently, halving the funding. – You can always read that in his speeches. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Who else would pay for it, Mr. Strache, than the farmers? You know that? Ladies and gentlemen, I say quite frankly to you: If you see the success of these negotiations, that 700 million have been added to rural development, compared to the population and the area of other countries – France: 1 billion, Italy: 1.5 billion, Sweden: 160 million – then I say: Respect for the outcome of the negotiations! and I do not wish to express my express thanks to the government – whether it be with Mr Vice-Chancellor, Mrs Finanzminister or Mr Bundeskanzler – for this result. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's how the ÖVP's veto looks! That's how the ÖVP's veto looks!]] Mr Strache, as you are addressing the veto: Before the beginning of the negotiations, when the European Commission's proposal is on the table, Mr Vice-Chancellor said that it was 50 per cent negative, it could also be considered a veto. Although the President of the European Parliament, Mr Schulz, has also said from the SPD that a veto would be quite appropriate, then there is nothing to hear about it. Of course, there are negotiating positions to be settled. But today you mean, the farmers are missing 72 million. – Obviously, you can't count. In the first column, 24 is missing, and as you know as an “agricultural specialist” – under quotation marks – the first pillar is not co-financed; only the second pillar is co-financed, and there are 12 million missing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] 12 times two is 24 – so much just for the explanation of your side. You know, being a grandmaster of sharp points is too little; I would have expected a little more substance here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is that the Austrian peasantry also awards many orders in the regional economy, not to international corporations, but to the regional economy on the ground. At the Steyr plant in St. Valentin, ask once at Pöttinger in Grieskirchen, ask once again at Eibl & Wondrak in Lower Austria, ask Lindner in Tyrol or at the construction companies/stall facilities, construction companies of other kinds, how many orders agriculture gives! It secures 530 000 jobs in the downstream and downstream areas. Agriculture is a rural economy, ladies and gentlemen, and if food safety is debated, then the food strategy of the future must also be secure. A future without food strategy and quality production is not possible, so we also need these compensation payments. I would remind you that there has been a decision, a unanimous decision, the national conference and the agricultural referents, where it has been pointed out that the funds should not be reduced, as they will also be necessary to ensure security in the future. That is why I am urgently seeking to compensate nationally for those areas where there are problems. I draw attention to the following: In 1970 we had 3.6 billion inhabitants in the world and 3 800 square meters of available arable land for production – per capita. In 2050 we will have 9.1 billion inhabitants in the world and per capita only more than 1,800 square meters of arable land. It is therefore important to ensure quality, to ensure production, to give farmers opportunities. This budget, this outcome of the negotiations, has been perfectly prepared, for which it is also to be thanked to the officials who have done great work, but ultimately the result is to be recognized.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e7667	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e7688	Mr President. High house! First of all, a request to the government: Although I see some of the ÖVP, the SPÖ is only the Minister of Education here. I would like to see the chief responsible, Mr Faymann, attend this debate and justify that in future we will pay much more to the European Union, but much less. [[OBJECTIVES]] This is not understood by people outside, and I think that the debate in general is very confusing. This is the case with GDP numbers, with percentages, with billions. – You know, the people outside who are really fighting for survival don’t understand that anymore. You only have the feeling that they will eventually pay for it properly. The less I understand when colleague Glavischnig, who has just left the room, says that one should finally end the small-spirited net payer discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, normally it is like this: Whoever buys, he pays. In the EU it is the other way round: Whoever pays doesn't make it – and that's a misunderstanding to turn it around in the future, because the budget budget – my colleague from the Greens, I know you're on it, trying to build a European socialist superstate, where the small people who are going to bleed businesses are going to get a centralist Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Treasure]] - That's the green idea. I don't care about that. We don't want it from BZÖ. [[OBJECTIVES]] We want a Europe of the Fatherlands, which is performance-oriented and which also establishes common things in the sense of subsidiarity. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor, however, has actually fallen by the way of negotiations, and the role of the ÖVP is also to be clarified. You, too, have a black Commissioner, Mr Hahn, I think, you have a Foreign Minister, Spindelegger, and they now act as if they have nothing to do with it. The worst thing I noticed is that you didn't have a common government line at all. The data are known: The EU budget will amount to 960 billion over the next seven years, 908 billion will be disbursed. But what has not yet been mentioned – and I quote here from the conclusions of the European Council of 7 and 8. February – is the inflation adjustment of these contributions. That's where it's inside. ‘Automatic annual technical inflation adjustments are foreseen.’ What does that mean, “technical inflation adjustments ”? – In reality, this means that EU contributions will be around 10 percent higher than you admit here today. There is no European country, there is no Parliament, there is only at European level. In advance, the following questions will be asked: Can it be a little more? – according to the motto Glavischnig, by 10 percent; please, this can be taken into account, it will be 10 percent more. [[Abg. Bucher: Fleischhacker!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So these are things you can't do with the BZÖ. We from the BZÖ have clearly told you how to negotiate how to carry a joint approach towards Brussels. We have requested in the EU's main committee that, first of all, EU contributions should not be increased and that, secondly, no change in a system of discounts should be agreed upon if the disadvantage is brought to Austria – or that it should be generally reduced and EU contributions built on fair, concrete and transparent rules. We also wanted finally to implement administrative reforms, which the European Court of Auditors also addressed. Why, ladies and gentlemen, do 26 000 out of 46 000 EU officials have a higher salary than we National Councillors? Explain this to us once! Why do more than 4,000 people have a higher salary than the German Chancellor? Dear Social Democrats, is this fair, is it social, is it just, is that appropriate? – We say: No, because in general, what the EU requires of the Member States – budgetary discipline, control, transparency – must also apply to the EU. [[OBJECTIVES]] Unfortunately, we do not find that there. We also want the financial transaction tax not to remain a marketing disadvantage, will finally be implemented. In return – no matter where it is collected, whether European or national – the contributions from Austria must then be lowered; we wanted that too. If all this doesn't happen, then you should put in a veto; that's what ÖVP has announced great. Spindelegger, Lopatka and some other representatives have meant: Then let's put in a veto!; also Auer, Scheder von der SPÖ. [[Abg. Neubauer: Schieder! Arbitrators!]] And what happened? – Nothing came out of it, you fell down in the sun lounger and added a little bit. Mr Auer, you are talking about great rural development. – So, if the figures on the ORF homepage are right, and I assume that they are properly researched, then we are decent on-call payers; then we have no rural development, then we have a rural development. It looks like direct payments to farmers will fall by 900 million in the next period. It looks like rural development will in itself be reduced by 600 million in Austria. – These are the figures published by the ORF. I wonder what this should mean if you know that we have fully paid for the EU's rebates. It looks like Germany will have a huge profit in the next period: 590 million more; England: more than 1 billion; Denmark: 147 million more. Only Austria has a total of 61 million per year less. And then you come here and say that's a great negotiation outcome?- Oh, my God! – With no help, it's not. It is more likely that the Lord Chancellor has gone and participated in this new European show, Europe is looking for the super-talent – and one has also found him: in the person of Mr. Faymann, who unfortunately is not present to God. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Since it would have been better if you had been champagne at the opera ball, that was what Mr Spindelegger did, who had nothing to do with it. But what has come out for taxpayers is ultimately hateful – and this in view of the problems in Austria: 410,000 unemployed, an unemployment rate of 13.4 percent in Carinthia, and there the rulers do not think anything better to distribute than money. They distribute money, money from the future fund, rob people of the future rather than settle sustainable businesses, invest in research, in education, in science and create jobs there with sustainability. In view of this situation in Austria, where prices also explode – rental prices, tank prices, housing prices, municipal fees, food prices – we will ensure that the Austrians survive the money, because we do not need to sacrifice it for Brussels, for that we have far too little. We will therefore distrust this entire government – the people have long done so – and I am excited whether you will vote here today by SPÖ and ÖVP or continue this Kasperl Theatre and continue to invest the money there. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Header]] [[Call the SPÖ: Safe! Sure!]] The payday is ultimately the election day in autumn of this year, and then you will also be held responsible for it, because the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ and also the ÖVP, have already paid enough. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e7801	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e7822	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Widmann, you have now spoken about the Kasperl Theater, which you want to make with your request today. I think the population is – very right – of the opinion that your request is a Kasperltheater, you know very well that this request will never go through. [[Call the FPÖ:Are you sure?]] – I am absolutely sure of myself; even the new election request will not go through. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk about numbers today. One must also tell people that we should wait until these figures are really final, because they are only final when the European budget is decided in the European Parliament and then comes back to us. I have heard what numbers Mr Widmann put around earlier. He said people don't know each other anymore, but with his numbers no one knows. The fact is definitely that one wants more that others want less; the way in the middle seems to me to be good. This has also been confirmed by one who should have an idea of this, that is Franz Fischler, who was once a Commissioner for Agriculture in the EU. He just told Mr Lopatka: “This is where one wants to construct an argument to criticize the Federal Chancellor”. – That’s exactly what it was that applies to all those who have received this criticism today. And he goes on to say: “I think this is quite inappropriate.” – I think it is quite inappropriate where we should act unanimously in Europe in order to reach a great deal there, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now it's supposed to be cuts. On the one hand, we demand a economical EU budget, but on the other hand, we do not want any cuts in our budgets. In the agricultural sector, there will be cuts, and, of interest, Fischler says that this can be achieved by increasing sales prices. These cuts will certainly be there. Although the Federal Chancellor has beaten out 700 million for the rural area, of course it will be too superior to where we can accommodate these cuts. As soon as we demand that all of this be covered at national level, I think that is a very great measure, that is, without thinking about where you could save yourself a little while without thinking about how – this is already happening today – you can take action in the promotions. One could cover the direct payments in the first column, so that one could gain savings there, which could then be used for the second pillar; According to the EU, 15 percent are possible. This would certainly be a redeployment into the second pillar, which would certainly help small and medium-sized family farms to stay on their courts. I miss these approaches completely. Mr Colleague Today, Auer has no longer raised the demand that this should be replaced by 100 percent, but he has very well - I have been careful - - said that it should be balanced in those areas where there are problems - but not generally overcoming and saying that everything should be replaced; that can't be it. I could list a whole series of savings measures that we could carry out, also in the second pillar. Public funding – Austrian programme for environmentally sound agriculture, which is a very important area –: Why is there where farmers use poisons that are harmful, where farmers use poisons that kill our bees, where farmers are producing nitrates that defile our groundwater, still public funding? We need to look more closely, there we have to put on the spasm and specifically promote the people who comply with these requirements, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek]] Here's a sound: Well then we save hold in the LEADER program! – To save the LEADER programme concerns rural areas, and I have heard here again and again that the rural area is a very, very essential area to preserve and that we have to take great care of. The rural area is all the people who live there, all the people who live there – starting with the children and ending with the seniors – that's the infrastructure and everything that belongs to life there. And that together belongs to this funding scene, ladies and gentlemen, too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] We should consider whether we simply say: More money! or if we don't say: More good ideas for the country! We should consider this in this context.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e7893	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e7914	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Krainer has so praised earlier when it came to why the Federal Chancellor was allowed to speak in Brussels. The bill is quite simple, he just got it a little wrong – but he's not there now, unfortunately I can't explain it to him; he'll be at a delicious lunch with Mr. Chancellor, who also shines by absence. It is true that the Federal Chancellor was allowed to speak in Brussels because it was precisely known that he would naturally agree with what the EU banks want. That's why they let him talk: so that he's standing there with a swollen chest like a turkey and signing everything you put before him. That was the background, you have to tell Mr. Krainer! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Now let me come to the statements by Mr Hannes Rauch, President-in-Office of the ÖVP, who said something very important. ‘The outcome of the EU negotiations is not, at least, a cause for euphoria’. "Only those who deal responsibly with taxpayers' money have earned the trust of the population." Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this is a clear word. Why Have In view of the many millions that have been sent to Greece, where it was known that they will no longer return, do you not say that we should deal responsibly with citizens' money? Mrs Finanzminister has always talked about a super business. – We've seen the business now! Why did you not say this in the vote on the ESM, the Is there any financial disarmed home? – At that time you could have said that. They need extreme explanation, ladies and gentlemen, that should also be made clear. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But with you in the government, there's already a system of fraud. I'm allowed to look back in the autumn: If you look at the budget of Austria, you see, there is always higher numbers speculated, there is always a higher budget approach, with the thought that you will not reach the target anyway and that you will get down with the higher forecast deficit. And then it is sold as a great success that the deficit is not as high as it has been predicted. That's with you, my friend. Ladies and gentlemen, system, I have looked at this in recent years. You can convince yourself that's the way it is, and you're trying to beat little money out of it. The game at EU level works according to the same system. The Federal Chancellor has lamented what we want to do. Now he's been thrown a joke, he's accepted it gratefully. This has been sold as a great success and means that one has prevented worse. Ladies and gentlemen! Not only the German Chancellors and Vice Chancellors are retiring, but the entire Federal Government. I agree with that. We will also agree with the request. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] On the comments of Mr Strache, who also sits at lunchtime, as it looks. Since this National Council has been elected for five years – for five years of work – we believe that it would be wrong to disband the National Council now, since it is independent of the government. I think we need an expert government. We can recommend to the government that it make a general resignation and we occupy this government, which is incapable of occupying experts, as we have in the Stronach team. Then something wrong would come out. That's why you don't have to disband the National Council. I now come to another issue, which is to stop EU waste; Mr Lugar mentioned it a short time ago. In the EU, the money – which does not come from the EU, but from the taxpayers of the different countries – is raised. You're very generous. And I want to take a point and deal with EU officials. I would point out that the German MEPs, Inge Gräßle, have been criticising CDU for years, that 8 500 of these 47 000 EU officials receive more than 10 000 € – I deliberately do not say that they deserve it, but they get it. Ladies and gentlemen, 10 000 €! A member of the National Council has 8,000 and a few squeaks. A member of the government receives a little more than 10,000. Then we still have a few section heads, who earn accordingly and whose salary is still above that of a minister. Ladies and gentlemen, now it comes: 4 500 of these officials receive more than the German Chancellor. Is this another relationship that we can represent, ladies and gentlemen? I think that's where you should go, and that's why you should have made a vortex there once. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need more transparency, we need more fairness, we need more truth, according to the motto of the Stronach team!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e8024	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e8116	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e8137	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Yes, I would also like to make a quick comment on the comments made by Mr Krainer. He said that in recent years policy has created jobs. I would like to say that it is the entrepreneurs who create jobs in this country, and these entrepreneurs deserve not only thanks, but also support for continuing to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Mr Krainer, I do not think that this jubilation and euphoria are appropriate here. We have not won the European Championship title, but we have brought home an acceptable result from an away game. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think we should leave the church here too. Let us look at the fact, ladies and gentlemen, and the fact is: As a location, Austria has benefited from this European Community as hardly any other country. This common Europe has been securing us freedom, security and, above all, a high degree of prosperity, which we do not find all over the world. And especially in Austria, the Austrian companies with their employees, each day we take advantage of this opportunity that the EU offers us, namely through the economic use of the internal market, through cross-border business opportunities, but also through EU co-financing. Infrastructure projects. And in this debate on Europe, we do not need political polemics, ladies and gentlemen, because the figures and facts speak for this Europe. The WIFO has shown it clearly in 2012 with its study. They have delivered a clear result with their study – and scientists have then strengthened it: Europe secures our economy and Europe secures our future. That is why the European success story needs to be further written with the right measures. We have heard it today, and this new European funding framework is certainly a compromise. I personally would have wanted more funding for research and innovation than the drivers of the future for the economy, or more resources for strengthening competitiveness, where we are more than ever required in the world concert of the Great, with India, China, the United States of America and Russia, but above all I would have wanted more resources to combat youth unemployment. Every unemployed youth is too much. And here in Austria, we can be proud that we have the lowest unemployment rate among young people with the dual education model – a model that should be copied by Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order to reach agreement and to support our ability to act in the EU, it was necessary to accept this compromise as well. Let's look forward. With all legitimate criticism, we can be satisfied with the results. If the opposition continues to show the negative examples here, I would also like to mention a few positive examples. And I have looked at the federal states very carefully, colleague Hagen, and as an example I call my homeland Salzburg. In Salzburg we had 210 000 employees in 1995 and today we have 242,000 employees. That's 32 000 more employees. We increased research expenditure by 92.9% from 2002 to 2009. Certainly, the EU research programme has also made a significant contribution to this. Or, of course, what is true for all of Austria, but for Salzburg in particular: We increased EU exports from Salzburg from 1.5 billion in 1991 to 5.4 billion today. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an increase of 380 per cent. I believe that only this number is convinced that we are on the right track with this policy in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! Europe is competitive – I have already mentioned it – with the prosperous countries around the world, and it is therefore important that we strengthen the economic location of Austria and competitiveness. Small and medium-sized enterprises also play a very important role in this. And I think it is a very important signal that the European Union will use €2.5 billion over the next seven years for the principle of advanced SMEs. We will be able to create a medium-sized climate in Austria and in the rest of Europe, for the benefit of the location and the people working in these businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is our future. That is why we are all called upon to strengthen the Union and to prepare ourselves for competition and the future. So I think this result is a good compromise and an important factor for the site.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e8214	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e8237	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr Haubner, you said that Austria is so massively benefiting from the European Union. You always hear this from that corner. There is a professional group that has not benefited from it, and these are the farmers, these are the farmers. They have not benefited from the European Union. And if it is always said here that rural areas are secured by the means of rural development, then I have to keep in mind the agriculture minister, who is not here now, but also the Vice-Chancellor and Chancellor, what Statistics Austria says about agriculture, just the naked figures. The income in agriculture has fallen by 30 percent in real terms since 1995. Every third farm has been locked down since 1995. And if you go here and say, Everything's paletteti! Everything's fine! We have received so much money for our farmers, then I have to stop that, that is a missing agricultural policy that is being run. Here, too, farmers die with a lot of money. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Mr Haubner, you have spoken about cross-border business opportunities in the European Union. We are now experiencing these cross-border business opportunities in relation to the horse meat scandal. I would have liked to do away with these cross-border business opportunities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have already said together that there is a minus in rural development and also in the first pillar. Since Member Auer has criticized that Klubobmann Strache cannot expect, I will read to him the figures published by the Ministry. ‘Kurier’ articles: Mr Berlakovich – Mr Klubobmann Strache has spoken of €72 million – says: In concrete terms, €72 million is lost to farmers. The Farmers' Federation notes: 36 million €, next time he notes: 48 million €. In the “Kurier” the Minister speaks of € 72 million annually and in total € 500 million. So it would be very appropriate to put the concrete figures on the table instead of spreading panic among the farmers. A specific number can still be expected from the Minister for Agriculture. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What I find particularly interesting: The Minister for Agriculture did not find it worth negotiating in Brussels. He'd rather be on the go at the hunter ball, he'd rather be on the road at the High Society in Schladming and come here and say we need more money. And, as a result, the answer of the government partner SPÖ, who called it a rumpel stylisticity, was that the demands will only be made after that. That was a shame, just like the mutilation with the veto threat, Mr. Agriculture Minister. Your own Commissioner, Mr Hahn, has already said that your veto threat has not caused meteorite impact in Brussels. You're not being taken seriously. We would really have liked this veto, because every euro will also help farmers for agriculture. However, you just announced this veto, but you didn't go through it. If you do that again, you just won't be taken seriously anymore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But regardless of the cuts in the agricultural sector, you have to pay attention to one thing: It is not just the money that is being debated here, because what is now being done mediaically with regard to agricultural policy is a massive damage to the image. the local farmers. It's all about money all the time. I would have liked the Federal Government to work at European level to ensure that there is a fairer price for agricultural products, because that is something that farmers could free from this agricultural policy. I would have liked you to stand up for the milk quota, because in the issue of the Chamber of Agriculture it is said that only Romania, Portugal and Poland have committed themselves to maintaining the milk quota. Austria has committed itself to the sugar quota, but not to the milk quota. I would have liked – and this has already been said by Mr Gaßner – that there is a ceiling on funding, because it is still the case that 2% of Austrian farms receive hundreds of thousands of euros of funding, while 90 percent are fed with a bet – not one initiative of yours, Mr Minister of Agriculture! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am very much in favour of returning at the front door, and I have to mention it here now. You regret that it is €36 million less, which in seven years is 252 million, or 48, depending on how you see it. Only the removal of the agricultural diesel, a purely Austrian matter, costs the farmers 350 million € in seven years – this deletion alone! This has nothing to do with the EU, but it is your own responsibility. Mr Auer, you voted in Parliament. The increase in social security contributions: 85 million € extra load, homemade. The increase in the levy for agricultural and forestry farms is 50 million over the next five years. The conversion levy will also cost agricultural holdings a few million. And as a big conclusion, the great achievement of the single value scheme, where you yourself write that 10 percent of the additional burden on farmers will come. If we count these points together alone, then we see that this in the case of weitem compensates for the cuts in the agricultural budget. And these points are homemade, you can't dispute that anymore. I think you have to return this to farmers if you want to make an honest and fair agricultural policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As far as Mr Gaßner's comments on the Leader projects are concerned, I would like to say: We also support LEADER projects, we also support public projects, but not as they are currently being carried out; for the Court of Auditors has issued a destructive judgment in three audit reports and has noted LEADER: Missal and waste of money, public transport: not appropriate, including waste of money. The worst is the judgment of the Ministry of Agriculture. I just remember briefly the 4 million homepage of the Minister of Agriculture. We can save enough and give the money to those who really need it. These are our domestic farmers. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] That's why I'm at the end of the line. I would ask the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor, the Deputy Chancellor, all Ministers, in particular the Minister for Agriculture, to ensure that the money does not simmer into the dark channels of the agricultural bureaucracy, the chambers and the AMA, but comes to those who really need it, namely, to the local farmers!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e8353	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e8377	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to talk about farmers, but about one of the most serious problems of the European Union, namely youth unemployment, or about the European Commission's youth employment initiative and the financial coverage provided for by this financial framework. Almost 5.6 million young people up to 25 are currently in Europe without work or training. I suppose you all know that we are almost 60 percent in Greece, regions in Spain are 50 percent, Portugal 40 percent, even in Italy, there are regions with 40 to 45 percent in southern Italy. Numerous other countries, including our neighbours, Hungary and Slovakia, have massive problems in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! This doesn't matter to us. Our concern and our sense of responsibility for young people do not end up with border stones. We think European. And I tell you, given today's debate, I am really proud that our thinking and our sense of responsibility do not end at the border. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We don't care if millions of young people don't get training if they don't have a chance to get a decent job later, because they're not qualified, and if they're there in 30, 40 years without a pension or with a pension that guarantees poverty. It doesn't matter to us. That is why we have always supported the training guarantee of Minister Hundstorfer despite many minor shortcomings. That is why we also put great hopes in the European Commission's Youth Employment Guarantee, as announced in December. But, Minister Hundstorfer, who is now no longer here, perhaps Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann! Mr Krainer also praised this. You all know that with €6 billion in seven years, we will not do anything in this fight against youth unemployment. If the quality of the Austrian training guarantee were to be converted into European conditions, we would need 10 to 15 billion per year! And now we have 6 billion for seven years. And of these 6 billion, 3 billion are already out of the European Social Fund. In other words, these are only re-transmitted and you lack other labour market and social policy projects. Ladies and gentlemen! I think you can't be satisfied with that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second criticism: This money can only be used by regions with a youth unemployment rate of more than 25 percent. What should we be told? – Does that mean, unemployment of 24, 20, 15 percent is not a problem for Europe? We see this completely differently. And I would also like to focus on what Mr Amon said today that the fight against unemployment, against youth unemployment, is a national task. This brings me to my third point: The prerequisite for increasing the funds from this fund is that there is a national co-financing system. All right, now we have Spain, Greece, Italy and cetera. You all know that the European Union's economy does not give these countries any budgetary scope to make national programmes precisely in the fight against youth unemployment. This means that the resources provided here are exactly those which It would be most urgent not to be able to claim because they cannot co-finance. And that's not what we Greens say, well-known European financial experts and experts. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This saving rate will keep Europe in crisis. And that is very worrying. We have far too little resources for the important fight against youth unemployment. Education, training and new jobs – it just costs money. We Greens confess that the money costs. But we are convinced that investment in youth, in the youth of Europe, is the best investment we can make. Unfortunately, this financial framework brings us no further, but a step back.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e8465	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e8486	High house! In order to bring a little more truthfulness into this debate, it is worth looking into the archive. Col. Cap, “The truth is a daughter of the time,” has already said Andreas Khol. I quote: "Whoever today has listened to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, he will notice: No word of these 30 million unemployed, no word of employment and growth policy. ( ) This is in the reality of art, in the beautifully colored reality of the Federal Chancellor and of the members of the government, who today must all sit on the government bank to strengthen and encourage him, simply not happen.” And then we're going to go on: “They take people into their pockets and say that this is responsible policy. But if we ask, Where is the policy for employment, growth and higher wages and against wage dumping and social dumping?, blame us for this being cheaper populism." These are the words of Klubobmann Cap from 2005 on the EU's financial policy of the then Federal Chancellor Schüssel, and we know today that we paid at least fewer net contributions and fewer EU membership contributions. I would therefore have expected, Mr Cap, that you will continue to be here today in this tradition in your truthfulness. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. List: Mirror!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Rechnen!]] Madam President, the expression “it is not true” does not apply to me, especially since the figures speak something different. The national contribution in 2000 amounted to €1.824 billion, in 2002 € 1.658 billion, now we are € 2.499 billion in EU membership per year, and the net contribution from 2000 has now increased by €436 million to €805 million in 2011. Thanks to the “great” negotiating skill of the Ferdinand of Goodness, who has moved to Brussels and has returned as the quality of the finished, thanks to this negotiating skill, we are now paying even more EU contributions, and the so-called discount has fallen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, on this subject I would have expected you to have taken a great deal of note in your brave role as a Member of Parliament, who has been spending 60 years in this House, here in the Chamber of Speakers, perhaps in the tradition you meant in 2005, in which you meant to speak the truth, even today, and who would have trained this government for this outcome of the negotiations, through which the Austrians are actually getting their hands on and which does not bring us anything, but continues to secure the EU banks and the EU institutions the fat economy over the next few years and decades. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] We therefore criticize this financial framework and reject it – because it has been negotiated to the detriment of Austria. The discount old: 187 million €; the discount new: only more than 115 million € per year. The net contribution in 2011: 805 million €, the net contribution now, thanks to the Federal Chancellor and his inactive vice-chancker, who preferred to be at the opera ball instead of strengthening the German Chancellor's back: 1.039 billion €. [[Call the BZÖ:Dancing Star!]] Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government – in the absence of “very much honoured” –: They have failed all the way, and this to the detriment of this republic, to the detriment of the people in Austria. [[Abg. List: Complaints!]] We therefore reject this financial framework and make the following request on this occasion: [[Quoted print version removed]] In order to document how this Federal Chancellor, with the help of the champagne opera ball visitor Spindelegger, has failed – because this always belongs to it; the Austrian People's Party, which now criticises the German Chancellor, but on this night of the decision did not find it worth the effort to strengthen the Austrian position with backbone in the negotiations, but rather depend on the order of the Christian trees on the opera ball, this Austrian People's Party has also failed on this topic – in order to document this negotiation with the Austrian Chancellor and the Federal Government, I now bring the figures proposed by the EU Commission at the discounts of the individual countries. [[OBJECTIVES]] For Germany it was proposed that the discount be reduced to €2.5 billion – it has become thanks to the negotiating skills of the Federal Chancellor Merkel €2,936 billion. In the Netherlands, the Commission wanted to cut to €1.050 billion – and it has become €1.502 billion. In Sweden, the proposal would have been to cut the discount to € 350 million, and Sweden could prevail, so that the discount was reduced only to € 663 million. Only the good, little, dear Austria: Kind and nice it sat there and let itself be pulled over the table. A disadvantage has come out to the detriment of Austrian taxpayers. Discounts have been reduced and EU membership has increased. Ladies and gentlemen, what the Austrians want from a federal government in a sincere way towards Europe is not a European hostility, but a clear, sincere attitude in the interests of Austria. That is what we expect from you in Brussels, which is that you dare to take the upright course there, that you do not come under the doorstep therefore, but primarily represent the interests of Austria there. Europe is always as strong as the Member States, and Europe is as strong as the individual Heads of Government and the Ministers of the informal Councils of Ministers. That Europe is so weak today is because we have weak national governments, and the weakness of the Austrian national government see you sitting personified on this government bank. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Don't get up like that!]] We do not need to be surprised that Europe does not work if Europe is represented by such members of the government of Red and Black. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Don't hurt yourself!]] That is why we believe that this Federal Government in Bausch and Bogen should be called upon to express its distrust, because this federal government has shownly negotiated to the detriment of Austria. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If I hear from the government bank, I can't scream like that, I have to say, Go to the people, then you will hear people tell you with 1,500 decibels in the face what they think of your policy! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Are you yelling with those?]] If you talk to the Austrians, you will feel that the Austrians will talk to you about touchles – Tacheles in a hopefully preferred new election, Tacheles in the autumn of the National Council election, where this Austrian Federal Government is not least punished by this unnecessary, unqualified and uneconomic kneeling before the European Union. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Then why have you been chosen? Why did you get out of the council?]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: 1,500 decibels are going out!]] That is exactly what I would have expected of you today, Mr Cap. Is not the 2005 Minutes of your speech evidence enough that you can do it? Why didn't you try to put the truth to the fore in this tradition today? Why not, in this critical tradition of 2005 at least in the approach, criticize the government for which you rightly criticized the then government in 2005 – from your subjective point of view? Have you been hypocrite at the time, or have you been hypocrite today? Because I know that the term “sacrifice” is diagnosed with a call for order, I try to reword it: Did you say the untruth at the time, or did you say the untruth today? Ladies and gentlemen, I suspect that both are the case. The figures speak for themselves: This Austrian government, as it stands today, is worse for light years than the governments of the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e8694	The two applications are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for Distrust am. § 55 GOG-NR Mr Bucher, Members of Parliament At the meeting of the National Council on 19 February, the Council adopted a resolution on the implementation of the Treaty on European Union on the February 2013 in the course of the debate on the EU Declaration by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor according to § 74b para. 1 lit. (b) the Rules of Procedure of the National Council for the purpose of discussing the results of the European Council of 7 and 8. February 2013 The Members who have been signed are as follows: Request The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government shall, in accordance with Art. 74 (1) B-VG, by express resolution of the National Council, fails to give rise to confidence.’
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e8873	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e8894	Mr President. Dear Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Bundeskanzler, I must say quite honestly – Mr Grosz has already mentioned it – that I would have preferred to see you at the opera ball. This would not have cost the Austrian taxpayer as much money as your appearance in Brussels. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Were you also at the opera ball?]] - No, I wasn't at the opera ball. It's not that important either. Mr. Vice-Kanzler, until now I have always believed that it is such a March that the ÖVP Federal Partyman has to drive to Ernstbrunn at regular intervals to find out what to say and do there, but apparently it is, because on the 9th. On February 1, in the Ö1 “Morgenjournal”, you said that you would be quite satisfied, as Chancellor Faymann has negotiated, that you have always taken the steps, and just a week later, according to the report in Ernstbrunn or in St. Pölten, it was then to be read in the “Kurier”: “This has to be explained by the chancellor” – Vice Chancellor Spindelegger criticises Chancellor Faymann’s ‘provisional compromise’ at the EU summit.” – However, in reality, it is the taxpayer who has lost this compromise. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take a look at the PPS, the purchasing power parity, from the following four countries! First of all: Denmark. As far as Denmark is concerned, the contribution to the EU will be reduced by €910 million between 2014 and 2020 and will be reduced by €1.29 billion in Sweden and €4.86 billion in the Netherlands. Austria is unfortunately not at the top, Austria has to be – and that, please, do with one more shoulder knock! – with €60 million additional. In other words, Denmark has an advantage of 93.4 percent over Austria, Sweden of 95.3 percent and the Netherlands even of 98.8 percent. – So “good” you have negotiated in Brussels! As far as administrative costs are concerned – we have already heard this today – have actually been saved; “only” has been increased by 5 billion instead of 6 billion, a result that can “show itself”. In the future, €63 billion will be available for the administration. The five-percent solidarity levy, which has so far been increased to the basic salary of EU officials, has expired, and thus 49 000 officials in the European Union can enjoy a salary increase of at least 5.5 percent. In comparison: Austria's pensioners have been granted a pension adjustment of only 1.8 percent, i.e. 1 percent below the inflation rate. I cannot, in the event of such a negotiated outcome, be'responsible', as you have mentioned here, recognise Mr Cap, the Austrian taxpayer. I therefore say: It is better that you no longer take responsibility from SPÖ and ÖVP, because we can no longer afford this to us à la longue. But for the “bodily well-being” in the EU was provided: €60 billion for foreign policy, for the performances on the international stage. – A great “success”! The Federal Chancellor also referred to the generous new teaching in the field of youth unemployment: €6 billion to combat youth unemployment. Of course, this must be followed in any case, and that is a good thing. But what is not said is that in Austria, too, the youth unemployment rate is constantly rising: 7.9 percent in 2011, 8.5 percent in 2012, which means that in our country 51 000 young people are without a job, of which every fifth are from Lower Austria. And what was forgotten to say: Austria does not receive a single cent from this pot to combat youth unemployment! The EU net contribution from Austria is rising from €800 million to around € 1 billion. Some 411 000 people were without a job in the January of this year, and there are 1.2 million people living below the poverty line in our country; 75 000 teenagers who have quit their education and for whom there is no money for a new attempt at integration into the world of work. In conclusion, I can only stress: For the future we need our money ourselves!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e8948	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e8969	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Jannach's remarks have moved me to speak again now, as a few things have to be corrected here. Mr Jannach has claimed that Austria, and thus also the Minister of Agriculture, would never have voted in favour of maintaining the milk quota. – This claim is wrong because Austria has always expressed its support for maintaining the milk quota – so that it is now clear, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Jannach also claimed that contributions to social security in Austria had, as it were, been fixed and decided on to damage to farmers. – I may ask for at least a few international comparisons. In Germany, ladies and gentlemen, an average farmer's pension is between €400 and €500, but the contributions are significantly higher than in Austria. In Switzerland there is a farmhouse pension of 1 000 francs – with a retirement age, which is, as it were, beyond that in Austria. Therefore: In this respect too, we should be very grateful for Austrian social policy, Mr Jannach. Now on the topic of unit value: Mr Jannach always confuses one-value main position and fixation. Mr Jannach is obviously a “sofa-functionary”: sit at home and don’t know yourself! Make comparisons with your famous Switzerland! In Switzerland the accounting obligation applies from 5 hectares, in Germany from 20 hectares, in Denmark from €6 500 annual turnover, in France from €76 000 annual turnover – and in Austria from €400 000 net. In my opinion, the government partners – Mr Gaßner, Mr Zehetner and I – have also negotiated very positively. But you, Mr Jannach, have not contributed to this – and this is what you have said here – but you have not done anything for the farmers in Austria. They have not contributed to the improvement of farmers in our country. They always complain that too much money is spent, and you are very often heard of you that the promotions should be halved. – So much for the truth.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e9033	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e9055	Dear ladies and gentlemen! The time is not enough to describe this lubrication theatre at last, because the sadness, the folk anger, what you do to our citizens is simply indescribable. The distance between the poor and the rich is increasing, and this federal government is leading the citizens, leading the people, copying the system of the Rossuwers. And Mr Faymann as the head of this federal government is selling this EU budget as a great success. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] How does this “beautiful success ” look? In short: The contribution increases, the discount is shortened. Less money for our small farmers and more money for the agricultural factories. – This is the work of this Federal Government. And Chancellor Faymann said: In these difficult times a good agreement, a good success has been achieved, one has made nails with heads. – These nails now beat you into the taxpayer's meat! - That's the wrong way. This result of our federal government brings us up to 15 percent less direct payments for our small farmers and a serious reduction for the promotion of the poor regions, such as the Burgenland. It must not be kept silent either: We pay 200 million to 300 million €, pay the taxpayer more to Brussels each year. Austria's discount has been shortened, the British keep theirs. – How do you feel up there? However, our Federal Government has made the invoice without the host, because the EU Parliament still has to agree. I hope that at least our 19 Members of the European Union have so much character and that we will finally have a veto. This beautiful agreement of our federal government could really prove to be the pipe creator of the year 2013. Mr Spindelegger – great with Veto threatened! Minister of Agriculture Berlakovich – threatened with veto! Then the people will be deceived, and after that such a crasher will be sold as a success. This burden, which you have imposed on the citizens, is unbearable in view of what they already pay in the sweat of their faces. How do you feel when you lie to the whole people, betray and sell and then speak up? – That’s the wrong way! This is a declaration of bankruptcy of the Federal Government. Red-black has really worked out. This is a betrayal of our country – and this EU budget is dangerous to us in every respect. The Federal Government has no skrupel, no restraints, no genius, without regard to losses to sacrifice the interests of our Republic at the EU altar in Brussels. The foolish citizen is deceived, and his interests are laid down with skin and hair on the Brussels altar. But the most objectionable, gentlemen, is this untruth, this beautiful speech! It would have been honest if the Federal Chancellor had said: Yes, I am too weak, this federal government is too weak, more so we have not negotiated out. The Danes, the British, all were better, we were too weak. – This would have been understood by the population. But no, it's all being beautifully spoken, and that's the absolutely wrong way. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] If one is lied about being deceived when one is stolen at a time when our people can no longer afford to live, then that is the wrong way.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e9124	Mr Huber, I urge you to have an appreciative language in the debate and to give you a call for order because of the use of the word several times. I call Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e9153	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! For me as a youth speaker, today is not a day of joy when you see what has been decided. I still have the pictures in my head, when Mr. Vice-Chancellor at the opera ball said that he telephoned the Chancellor four more times that day, that everyone is so agreed and is being negotiated so great. That's what I'm asking: Mr. Federal Chancellor, what happened? One must not forget, the basic idea of the European Union is a great one. She's a peace project, that's just to support. But in a few countries there is a huge problem, namely youth unemployment. In Greece and Spain, over 50 percent of young people are unemployed, and there are no prospects. And then we decide to invest 1 billion € from 2014 to 2020 in the fight against youth unemployment so that young people can find prospects, opportunities and jobs again. However, there is the clause that the countries and regions in which there are more than 25 percent unemployed among young people aged 25 to 30 are supported. That, I think, is going in the wrong direction. It can't be: If a country has 24 percent unemployed, it sees that it comes to 25 percent, so that there is something in the funding jungle. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's why you need more resources!]] – I would say that the lever has to be set up in such a way that there is more economy that there are more companies that train young people. That must be the meaning, including the meaning of the EU, Mrs Glavischnig! That's the fact that we don't say, okay, we're taking more resources to create more workplaces, some state-funded and supported, where the young people are not trained and then are unemployed again. We have to put on the lever in such a way that we don't have so many unemployed people at all. 50 percent unemployed in these regions are a disaster. It must be admitted that it cannot go in this direction! We would simply wish there was more transparency, so I put the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The problem we have is the jungle of the middle association, that is, no one knows how much money they get and how to get to these promotions at all. Small and medium-sized enterprises are nothing but the supporter against unemployment, which actually gives young people a chance. What you have forgiven with the farmers, so that a farmer can no longer survive today, if he does not seek a promotion and get any state premium, we do not want to have that among the young people. We want strong companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, which train many young people and young people so that we can get rid of this disaster soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e9207	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e9284	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. Time left: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e9306	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! The fact is, after so many figures I have become quite allergic as a Salzburg MP. The fact is that the budget of the common agricultural policy will be significantly smaller in the future. State Secretary Lopatka was not particularly - he is not in the house now - enthusiastic about the negotiating skill and the outcome of the negotiations. He said that the bitter aftertaste was now being lost to Austria's farmers. Maybe he meant the horse meat scandal in the foresight. You, Minister Berlakovich, also said in the Committee that many things are wrong in European agriculture. We from the Stronach team are in favour of a fair partnership between consumers and farmers. We also want to work constructively away from the committees on solutions, because without the opposition, it seems, in the various committees, there are not even motions for resolutions, but just a few reports. Surprisingly constructive was the final meeting of the Committee on Agriculture until item 8 on the agenda for the AMA. That's where it got violent again. The AMA is an opaque money transfer association, said colleague Jannach. I have never heard the word “transparency” as often as I have heard in this committee. Mr Schultes wanted to present agenda item 9 at all. The chairman of the committee, Jakob Auer, who has gone out twice today, was told that immunity should not be put to the fore. Nevertheless, the AMA is a renewed one, because we want to have real transparency in this regard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] But this item on the agenda, Mr Gaßner, was also postponed as was the case with the seven others. And I was right again, Mr Gaßner. So much for the agendas. The outcome of the negotiations on the EU budget is and remains a bad one. In future, ladies and gentlemen, the hard-working Austrian farmers will no longer be able to serve as a mere subsidy recipient. We hope that we will all agree on this issue. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e9370	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We come to the votes. Firstly, we shall be voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Lugar, colleague and colleagues on ‘Stop the millionseur walking circus of bureaucrats between Brussels and Strasbourg’. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of this request for a sign of approval. – The application does not find a majority. He's rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, colleague and colleagues on the "Transparent reform of European human resources in the private sector". If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, fellow Members, on the national closure of the negotiations on the EU financial framework for 2014 to 2020! I'm asking for your supportive sign. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Government in accordance with Rule 74. 1 B-VG. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Markowitz, colleague and colleagues on 'Transparent allocation of funds for small and medium-sized enterprises'. If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[13:08:35]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Werner Kogler, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Finance on Lower Austrian speculations and losses in billions (14022/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e9488	We now come to the urgent debate on the written question 14022/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] (1) Gabriela Moser in the debate on the FAG 2001, Sten.Prot. 52. Session, p. 64 (2) Factsheets on housing promotion Styria, AK Styria, August 2012, p. 14 The Erwin Pröll Casino The state government in Lower Austria was particularly irresponsible under Erwin Pröll. In a first tranche, housing loans with a value of 4.7 billion euros were dropped by the interest-rate cash value of only 2.59 billion euros in 2001. The establishment of veiling structures, inter alia, by setting up a private foundation, should cover the fact that a loan was finally received, the security of which served the housing funds. After deduction of the high costs incurred, only EUR 2.442 billion were ultimately charged - initially still quite conservative to 60% in bonds and 40% in shares. A massive loss was generated with the shares acquired in 2002. In the following years, therefore, the country of Lower Austria launched a vain attempt to recover the losses suffered, and relied on ever more risky investments. With an irresponsibly high share of 38% of so-called "alternatives" Investments was already reached the end of the dead end in 2006. In the portfolio, for example, hedge funds and structured products were found, which, according to the Court of Auditors, “are particularly difficult to deal with and/or to deal with in times of crisis. Inconsistency". (3) (3) Court of Auditors Report NÖ 2010/5, p. 11f While the promised current disbursements could only be achieved through the repeated grip on the substance of the invested assets, further assets of the country were “silvered. ” After the usual pathological course of players, more and more money was shot in the unrealistic hope of saving profits, the risk of speculation on derivatives and the like. increased and the damage continuously increased. Erwin Pröll as the head of state and music school director Wolfgang Sobotka as the Finance Council has thus succeeded in transforming the financial management of one of the largest federal states into a casino. In 2003, around 245 million euros were thrown out of the early purchase of residential loans into the speculation stopper. These funds were even double speculated as these claims had already been sold. Since 2003 There is therefore an ever-increasing debt of EUR 247 million to the buyer as a result of interest. In 2005, a new source for the financing of casino operations was opened. EUR 933 million was granted as a loan on investments by the country (e.g. ==References====External links==* Official website Once again, a purchase was pretended to be false, although in the case of serious economic considerations a credit was simply received for speculating on the financial markets. Finally, in 2007, additional housing loans worth around EUR 2 billion were ‘utilised’. This time the proceeds amounted to only around 840 million. Euro that has also been misused for speculation in financial markets. In 2008 there was a major collapse in the financial markets, from which the Lower Austrian claims have not recovered to this day. A future recovery is also made almost impossible by the increasing use of the remaining values to stop lower Austrian budget holes. Thus, 133 million euros were collected in 2011 and 371 million euros in 2012, some of which have already been abolished, so that future revenues are reduced. (4.) (4) Court of Auditors Report NÖ 2012/6, p. 165 The billions of damage Compared with the original targets of the investments (which were based on the original value of the loans sold), the Court of Auditors' report NÖ 2010/5 calculated a failure of EUR 996,79 million as at 31.12.2008. This damage of around 1 billion euros is expected to have increased significantly since then due to the continuing crisis of the financial markets. Put to the point: If the Lower Austrian government had not done anything like that, the housing loans would not be sold and would not then turn on the large speculation wheel, Lower Austria and the Republic would have saved the losses at billions. When the billion-dollar damage was no longer to be denied, those responsible tried to cover up the disaster by establishing offshore societies for the “outsourcing” of lost papers. As a result, the damage was further increased. To this end, the economic and corruption prosecutor's office is already finding out. Instead of becoming wiser from the damage, those responsible for the country of Lower Austria continue to claim to have achieved a financial surplus by their approach. In doing so, they completely disregard the original value of residential loans before the drastic reduction in the recovery process. The people seeking housing are the victims All these processes have a direct impact on the lives of the people concerned: Every and every self-employed person Employmenters pay of their income the housing contribution of 1% (0.5% AN and 0.5% AG contribution). Since the financial compensation in 2008, these amounts, which are 80% passed on to the countries, have not even been used. Thus, the citizens of the country have directly financed with their income the game passion of the Lower Austrian head of state. In a ten-year comparison, housing promotion remained nominally constant, i.e. it was actually declining. The share of GDP decreased from 1.3% (1997) to 1.0% (2004). (5) (5) Benchmarking Sustainability of the residential development promotion of the federal states, Oberhuber/Amann/Bauernfeind, FGW, reports from energy and environmental research, 32/2005, p. 3 At the same time, however, the need for new housing increased considerably. In Austria at least 10,000 flats are not newly built every year. This gap will be much larger in the following years, and thus more successful, because: In recent years, housing development benefits have only been kept stable through access to the substance, and financing from current revenue is no longer available. This will no longer be possible in the next few years without the addition of additional funds. At the same time, the Federal Government abandoned its control over the use of these funds in 2008. Further speculations according to the example of the St. Pöltner Casino “Pröll” are possible at any time. The result of this misdevelopment is dramatically rising prices for rental and housing properties throughout Austria. Little surprising is Lower Austria also at the top when it comes to increasing rental prices for apartments in the Austrian comparison (2011 first place with +4.5%, 2012 second place with +4.49%). (6) The abuse of housing promotion for financial speculation will further aggravate the housing situation for people, especially in Lower Austria. (6) Real estate price mirror of the WKO The attempt to make the Landbock a residential gardener in the funds of housing development has therefore failed disastrously. The hour's commandment is therefore clear: From housing to budgets - ending with government speculation with taxpayers! In order for citizens to no longer have to face the damage with taxes and rents in future, Austria from Salzburg to Lower Austria needs close legal barriers for speculation-sensitive national leaders. Furthermore, by reintroducing the commitment of the funds to the housing promotion of housing, it is necessary to protect from these national leaders. The Members who are subscribing therefore make the following comments: Request for urgent procedure 1. In what way and with what result was the implementation by financial market supervision of the investment funds ‘NOE I’ (AT0000497185), ‘NOE 2’ (AT0000637467), ‘NOE 3’ (AT0000496310) and ‘NOE IV’ (AT0000A05D45) established for the country of Lower Austria? 2. What was the result of the FMA on any audits of the aforementioned investment funds NOE I, NOE 2 and NOE 3 in respect of performance, risk level of investments and use of letterbox companies and offshore centres? 3rd. According to §16(2) FMABG, the Minister of Finance is entitled to request information from the FMA on all matters relating to financial market supervision. Have you obtained such information about the low yield – thus contributing to the total loss – of these funds? a. If so, when and with what result? b. If no, why not? 4. In what other way have you ensured their supervisory function in accordance with §16(1) FMABG vis-à-vis the FMA in connection with the Lower Austrian Funds? 5. In view of the Court's findings on the low yield – thus contributing to the overall loss – of these funds and the extremely high proportion of alternative investments in them, has the financial market supervision carried out special audits according to §16(4) FMABG? a. If so, when did they take place and what was the result of these special tests? b. If no, why did you, as a competent Finance Minister, not order a special audit of the FMA as part of her supervisory duty? 6. What steps have the departments assigned to your department taken so far to support the investigations of the Public Prosecutor's Office in connection with the Hypo Lower Austria and the transactions of the Hypo Lower Austria and the FIBEG in Ireland, the Cayman Islands and other tax havens and the associated accusation of infidelity and forgery? 7. In the meantime, the full accounts reports have been submitted to your department, financial market supervision or the Austrian National Bank. § 49 InvFG transmitted via the above investment funds? 8. If yes: When to Become To make them available to the National Council? 9. If no: what will be Do you undertake to obtain full information from the competent control authorities on the conduct of these funds from public funds? 10. Skill Do you ensure that, in the future, another ‘case of Lower Austria’, i.e. speculation by divestment and re-investment of claims arising from housing loans, will be excluded by the legislation submitted to the National Council concerning the so-called ‘specification ban’, including the corresponding Art 15a agreement? 11th@item: inlistbox Is it true that, through the conduct of the State of Lower Austria in 2001 (sale of the claims to Blue Danube Loan Funding GmbH while at the same time 0assuming the liability for the repayment of residential loans and a loan issued by the BDLF over EUR 2.59 billion) the debt of the public sector in Austria increased by just the amount of the loan? 12. How did these operations in Lower Austria affect the Maastricht balance and the Maastricht debt of the Republic of Austria? 13. ==References====External links== In economic terms: the refusal) of participations by the State of Lower Austria in 2005 (‘Tranche III’) were ‘tax benefits’: dividends obtained annually from the shares should be deducted from the costs (interests) of the foreign financing taken over, thus reducing the burden on Köst. At the same time, the proceeds from the charges due to the design as rights of enjoyment - and thus the use of a tax gap - should remain free from Kest. What tax less-incomes have the federal government been made out of this year of Lower Austria since 2003 to present total? 14. What budget Expecting additional needs For the housing promotion system for the years 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, because of the fact that, after the task of large parts of the wealth of housing promotion in recent years, the adequate coverage of the housing promotion system seems more than questionable? 15. Has the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs informed you of the amount of funding to be spent over the next few years in order to ensure the level of housing support? a. If so, what does he think is the need for additional funding from public funds in the coming years? 16. Since the abolition of the commitment of housing funds, what total amount has been withdrawn by financial compensation laws 2001 (retrofits) and 2008 in total from the housing support system? In formal terms, urgent treatment is required in accordance with § 93(2) GOG.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e9741	I give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Kogler as the first questioner for the reasons of the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e9762	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, also on the government bank! – Speaking of the government bank – Perhaps we are still able to do something useful and reasonable from this special meeting, which was originally held on the occasion of a declaration of government. [[The members of the government have left the government bank except for Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] This will be the first order here. I will explain to you what European policy, the loss of speculation in Lower Austria and the role of the EIAs have to do with each other. We will consider whether Salzburg and Lower Austria are so easily comparable or what is not exactly comparable. We will deal with the shattering of the Austrian housing promotion system and the question of what was done out of it and what can be done very evil about it if you go to the casino with the so redeemed funds. We will find a wonderful business idea of an absolute ruler, who then took up a music school director as a finance councillor. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We will record the chronology and history of these processes and present the results of these processes, which have been prepared by experts, including the Court of Auditors. We will look at what is particularly exciting and spectacular – I expect your extensive participation here – the justification attempts in particular from the Lower Austrian ÖVP. We will then, and there it will be particularly tragic and bad, re-examination of the additional costs of this whole action – I think this is a relatively new aspect – and, worse still, the costs of concealing it and the subsequent costs of concealing it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Finally, the role of the Hypo Lower Austria will also be considered and the question why the corruption attorney is already on his way back there, and that is quite true, because it has to do with those veils mentioned earlier. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – Mr Colleague! Are you this black Lower Austrian MP who has proposed to convert the Casino Baden into “Erwineum”? It seems to me that would light up the competence of your calls. At any rate, Mrs. Federal Minister – and therefore it is so urgent – we will have to go through to what extent the so-called and those days-as-you-go speculation ban package is at all suitable for the House and whether it is at all possible to prevent those processes which I have described in the cascade now, as they have occurred in Lower Austria. Whether you want it at all, the question will be. That is why, I believe, it is now time to turn to the matter. But just one sentence – Mr. State Secretary Lopatka is still here – if we already have to comment on the special session: [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll stands at the government bank and talks with State Secretary Dr. Lopatka and Mag. Arbitrary]] To be honest, this mustard, which the Secretary of State of Europe has given here, must not be broken down on the tongue, but I am still wondering where the corresponding sausages are or where he has suspected them. [[the speaker draws with his hands quotation marks in the air]] This debate, as it has taken place here, is clearly proof that these sausage traces are not necessarily to be sought at the Federal Chancellor, but perhaps at the ÖVP itself. The last significant contribution made by the ÖVP and the ÖVP of Lower Austria to European policy was the disassembly of Othmar Karas and the installation of Ernst Strasser. Congratulations on this success! [[Congratulation of the Abg. New builder.]] But when Ernst Strasser was still responsible for internal security in this Federal Government in 2001, as you are, Mrs. Minister – and in this context we are going to deal with it – Black-Blue has made a breakthrough in this Republic. And now we come to the first big difference between Salzburg and Lower Austria. In Salzburg, you can argue a lot about transparency, which is a special class intransparency. In the meantime, Lower Austria is becoming a little more transparent thanks to our investigation work, but the fact is that what happened in Lower Austria is much more dramatic than what we find in Salzburg. That is why, in a single point, the head of state is right: He doesn't want to be compared to Salzburg. – Rightly, because in Lower Austria, a much larger casino swingwheel was shot and much greater losses were realized. [[Abg. Riddler: Such a fool!]] I'll explain it to you in a moment. Come on, get involved! We will address your justification tests in detail anyway. The Austrian housing system had long had its good sides. It's too little time to deal with it. But when you made the first attempt in 2001 to release the return on credit repayments for the budget or otherwise – and for Lower Austria something has gone for otherwise – that was the big bang. That was the original sin that was made here. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] In 2008 you even removed the whole dedication of purpose, as it was even worse. But already in 2003, it was Austrian in such a way that 10 billion € were removed from the housing system, and 5 billion of them in a particularly shabby way. [[Abg. Rädler: Not at all!]] – We can now look at that in Lower Austria. Other federal states have at least used the means to stop so-called budget holes – even not elegant – but in Lower Austria, and I would like to address them now, one had a special business idea. What was the idea? – An absolute ruler of the state thinks: Why should I wait 20, 30 years until the repayments get into my budget, but then the debt would be reduced? I want to build my monuments now! I want to do something for the people now, as Mr Stumpfully said last time. The head of state wants to liquidate the repayments into the present. This is a rather classic process of sales of claims. So far, so intrusive, you could mean. Then you thought – and I think that's the only thing that's not evil about this whole process: You make a lot more returns everywhere than we pay interest. I think that was actually the thought and that you thought: [[Abg. Wheeler: Bright seer!]] If we take the money now and get more returns than we have to raise interest very well on the other side – because this money is missing with budget revenue – then we actually have through the increase a nice, big, millions hard basket money to do good for the country. So we don't have to get into the substance at all. [[Mr Schittenhelm and Mr Rädler.]] In the same way, it was decided in the country day, against the votes of the Greens – as the only one, you can read it in the protocols – because we already pointed out the risks quite precisely at that time, because it is not possible to imagine on a permanent and on average – and that was the essence of the financial crisis at all – that higher yields can be achieved than on the other hand credit interest rates can be paid. This was largely the cause of the financial market crisis, but “in small” – under quotation – with the imagination of the Lower Austrian ÖVP, which took this risk, although it should not have been and should not have been. Now these funds are liquefied and laid down. I mean, the minimum that needs to come out is, of course, the interest-rate increase you have, because the whole budget is missing – that's logical. This is exactly the process that the Minister is supposed to want to prevent – rightly to prevent – from using credit shots, especially in the public sector, in order to invest on the other side, and also where there is such a high level of debt, by the way, especially in Lower Austria. When we count municipal and national debt per capita, Niederösterreich has the highest debt in Austria – more than Carinthia! This is actually unimaginable, but it should also be said. [[Abg. Wheeler: What the hell is this?]] Everything fits into the picture in this country! Now you've gone here and said: Although we have so many debts – that's all grudging, we have a lot of demands here. Let's get the housing promotion and the housing seekers somewhere in front of the door. We're going here and making a great story. After all, we want to put everything possible in this country. But these interest rates, this minimum interest rate you would have needed, you have never reached! The point is now coming, and I should like to take a short look at the EIA's justifications: They always pretend to be doing something great with this small basket money they had there – that's what it's grown up – as if with 1 percent, 2 percent return. – We were kept childish, we wanted to raise the interest rates, so in the way. Of course, you have to do the right thing and say what you did not do from the outset, of course you have to bring back in. The figures are quite clear: 4.6 percent at least you should have done, 5 percent, 6 percent, so that the game will start at all, so that anything will be left of this game. But you only have between 1 percent and 2.2 percent. That means the difference is the loss. – I have written it into this urgent question, and the Court of Auditors too. And now it's all over for you to deny it all the time with the stupidest examples! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the report of the Court of Auditors from 2010, series 5, page 11 and the following, a short-term error, as at 31.12.2008, is already recorded, that is, before the financial crisis, of € 996.79 million, almost one billion. In the meantime, of course, this is far beyond that. The Court of Auditors says: “This damage of around 1 billion euros is expected to have increased significantly since then due to the continuing crisis of the financial markets.” In fact, there is no small profit or great profit, it is a huge loss, and if you always reinterpret this into a win, it won't be more true! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is the Court's main statement. And you should not sue him, you should rather note that a test body, by the way of this National Council, has made this finding. But now, of course, you want to pick up in Lower Austria, which is typical of the player's mentality. First of all, the €4.7 billion I've spoken about before, and I've only taken 2.6 at all. That means that this difference would have always been to catch up! Of course no talk about it! Now, however, the first new aspect of this matter is coming. In fact, only 2.44 have been charged at all. That means that 150 million have already disappeared at the stage. These are the additional costs of a huge system that you have attacked, with a lot of companies, with a pile of veiling structures, where you – and you should say that; we will also have to intertwine at this point – once explain how many companies have been established here for this purpose to carry out the transaction at all. Later, concealment societies were established, but that is only coming. How many societies have been founded? How many Executive Board posts have you created? By the way: How'd they get occupied? How many advisory contracts have been given up here? And in the end: Who guarantees there's no kick-back payments here? Where are the 150 million who have not even entered the game? – That’s absurd what you’re putting to justifications here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will, of course, continue to pursue these aspects, because this is not just about slutting, because it is not about the fantasies of Mr Pröll and Mr Finanzlandesrat. This is about money that is gone, which has disappeared somewhere in the ÖVP-near network society. You will no longer be able to deny that. But the whole thing went on. Other housing loans, claims were sold, but other ideas have also been born, and therefore, Mrs. Federal Minister, this is so important at present because these things can happen again at any time. What if countries come here and sell shares in the energy business – which is due to God's partial or in large parts still public – or if you simply transfer it to another society and get a credit on it, is so responsible? That's nothing but a credit, but a bypass that you can't take with your speculation ban with your alleged, not at all. However, this was actually the case in 2005. And where? – Of course in Lower Austria. Another huge sum, re-entered into the same system. This has been your method, and it can continue at any time. That's done in this urgent inquiry anyway. I would add, however, that the cited passages in the Court of Auditors' reports must also be read in the same way as the “profile” articles in paragraphs 1 and 6 of this year, where precisely these transactions have been described and, in principle, already prove how the losses are realized here. And the whole game is getting worse, which is the cost of concealment. First of all, however, to assess these processes. You could say, well, the fungus and the Kogler have fantasies again. Something else won't happen to you anyway. Don't tell me! Mr Stumvoll, your justification was the last time – if you are trying to do something else today! – to say: We have a game, a football game, started, 3:0 we have won, and the Greens are excited that we have not won 5:0! – I actually read this nonsense in the last protocol. If you already pretend to be football affinity, I really want to keep in mind that here a team, unfortunately the Lower Austrian taxpayers, have started with a 5:0-resistance. Something like that happens sometimes. And then you shot 3 goals, you think. So, then you're still 5:3 in the back. The relationships are expected to be about right. Tragically, this is about billions of losses and not just about two goals, which the Lower Austrian ÖVP will certainly no longer shoot. And Allah saves us from these efforts! But it is not only the Kogler, it is also the university professor of the WU, Pichler, who says, in the “Wiener Zeitung” of December of the previous year – not so long ago, Mrs. Federal Minister – also referring to the ban on speculation, to the alleged: What happened in Lower Austria is similar to processes of hedge funds 1:1! – Not something, but hedge funds! And by the way, you wouldn't ban it with your speculation ban. So there we have a very prominent voice, that's not anyone! This Professor Pichler has still used Josef Pröll as a Minister of Finance in 2009, a good thing by the way, as Chairman of the Commission Task Force, very well! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Task Force!]] Very attentive! It was used to clarify the operations still to be rehabilitated at the federal level in the Federal Finance Agency, and this Commission presided over by Professor Pichler. By the way, he has already regretted the fact that the whole was not extended to the federal states. We would have saved ourselves a lot, because in 2008, 2009 and 2010 damage would have been averted. But no, you wanted it different because you once again, you of the ÖVP – I don't know you as a person, I don't believe at all – because the ÖVP once again went to the knees in front of its own national leaders. In 2009 we could have already had the ban on speculation for the federal states, but nothing, but no! Pichler has proposed that the same Pichler, who found that the operations in Lower Austria correspond to the activities of hedge funds; but the Court of Auditors also says this, I have quoted it before. But I have to mention this for another reason. Not that this would have led to the damage, in the meantime, to billions of damage, no! First of all, it became even more hidden and shocked, but on the stage – already the one with the “Erwineum”! – has been ordered by the Court of Auditors, the President of the Court of Auditors, who is referred to as “the pea narrator” – by the head of state of Lower Austria, who is always so serious, never throws away the nerves in his absolute manner of power. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[Abg. Strache: There are other videos!]] He used to throw away his nerves, again the other day! And he's right to throw away the nerves, because we're coming to him now! But the Court of Auditors is not going to do so. He has even been presented by Mr Pröll as incompetent. – You know, incompetent are others, but above all, the rulers who roam around in St. Pölten in the government! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the concealment costs. Not enough with that, the whole thing had to be hidden, so one has taken the hypo Lower Austria hostage, which is owned by the country that had to start up with the companies of Lower Austria sub-companies in order to hide these losses in Ireland, a tax haven. [[Abg. Rädler: That was ten years before!]] And the resolution of this construction cost 120 million again! If you had admitted the mistake, you would have saved the Republic 120 million! But this damage has been continued and is rightly examined by the corruption prosecutor's office. This is about infidelity and the falsification of the balance sheet, and now even the management of the hypo Lower Austria depends inside. But to their little defense it was said that they were inspired by the Lower Austrian state government, which is the real owner, to do that, and in truth these gentlemen belong to the indictment bank! [[Abg. Rädler: This is a lie!]] It will also be a matter of concern. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] So, Mrs Federal Minister, and all this will not prevent you from talking about the alleged ban on speculation, about which we thank God today, because of the two-thirds matter, and which is to be found in the Committee on Budgets on Thursday. Why? Because they're not classical credit shots. I hope most have understood that now. And it comes from these 15a contracts that keep you so high, which have always been just an accident for the Republic, not indicating that these transactions are recorded. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: That's not true!]] Worse: Everything that is not prohibited by the Constitution – and only the credit shots are meant – can, through 15a- Treaty, re-establish each federal state in its own laws, then in its own directives, in its own commissions and expert groups. And now we are so far that St. Pölten himself will again be defined in his directive competence, which is speculation and what is not – unless credit has been received. And no credit has been received, they have speculated with billions, they have lost – and they want to continue! They're inconspicuous! They explain this to you every day: We made a win! – Orwell’s speech twist! They don't want to prevent it, but they're asking the population to ban speculation. I can't! At some point in Lower Austria, the increase of taxpayers and the damage to those seeking housing must also be completed.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e10031	In response to the question, Mrs Federal Minister for Finance, Dr. Fekter, spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e10052	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary Deputies! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Watch the gallery and the TV screens! High house! Last week, in the Ministry of Finance, we signed a state agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder, the Municipal Government and the Municipal Government, because it must once and for all end the risky business of the local authorities. That's a big concern to me. That is why we have worked quickly on Christmas holidays and, first, we have prepared a federal law for the stricter conditions, secondly we have prepared the State Treaty, thirdly we have legislately formulated a state target and presented it to the House. And fourthly, I gave a warning that OeBFA is more strictly controlling its contracts with the countries. We have acted very quickly and in terms of content, I believe, over long distances, we have been able to stop speculation. It is the heart of the 15a Treaty, this State Treaty. We have defined uniformly and comprehensively what will no longer be possible in the future. In this way, we have proposed a bar to speculation with hard-worked tax money. And this is not as toothless as you, Mr Kogler, are. On the contrary, I believe that after the events in Salzburg and after the troubles of some cities, such as Linz and St. Pölten, all local authorities have realized that they have to do differently. Tax money is too valuable to be used to speculate on financial markets. The Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities have now created clear rules and more transparency. Now on the principles of the ban on speculation. – First principle: uniform guidelines for all types of risk in financial transactions. This is not only about the foreign currency risk, it is also about the liquidity risk, the credit risk, the market risk, the risk of operations generally. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, all risks are to be avoided and not negligently perhaps to be bought for a bit of basket money that is expected. That should not be possible in the future. Second principle: greater transparency. There must be reports to the respective decision-makers, to the Landdays, to the municipal councils, to the National Council, for example, to the State Debt Committee, to Statistics Austria. This secret of what is called “active financial management ” is no longer modern. Third, we need strategic planning and reports on how to deal with debt and liquidity management. It can't be that you're running a "hole-to-hole" policy, depending on the stock market situation. That's not opportunistic with tax money! And fourthly, incompatibilities must be ruled out: Four-eye principle, six-eye principle, separation from those who make the financial decisions, and those who take up the loans, and as third parties then separation from accounting. That this was all united in one person in Salzburg could actually lead to this mess. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we have laid down these principles in detail and then we have a sanctions mechanism based on the Stability Pact, which we already have with the countries. Mr Kogler, you do not consider it valuable that we have agreed with the countries. You, the Greens, and also the Liberals and the BZÖ were, at the time, heavily opposed to us writing the debt brake into the Constitution. There was nothing else left to us but to conclude a state agreement with the countries. And we've taken over government responsibility for what you can't say here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We were faced with the same situation at the ban on speculation: To assume state responsibility quickly, and therefore we have concluded an Article 15a agreement. Thank God – thank God! – we are now much more talkable and negotiating the opposition. With regard to the situation of municipalities and cities and their societies, which are also in the boat, we need a constitutional provision, and I hope it will come about. In the future, all avoidable risks are to be excluded in financing and in the event of risks, they must be minimized or reduced. Furthermore, it is forbidden – and this is also to be written in the Constitution – to carry out speculations with debt. Charges and speculation with debt are not allowed! The credo must speak for all: First, reduce the debt and then, if there is still money, put in a risk minimising position, all in all conservative. What has been standard for the federal government for years now applies to countries, cities and municipalities thanks to the ban on speculation in this article-15a agreement. Derivatives, i.e. financial products, can only be used if they reduce the already existing risk. No derivative without basic business to secure it. A derivative due to a basic business in order to raise the supposed profit, as happened in some municipalities, increases the risk, and that is to be prohibited. In order to reduce the risk, derivatives may also be useful in the future. We have committed strict sanctions for the speculation offenders, 15 percent of the money used is distributed to the partners if there is an infringement. As an arbitration body, we have set up the Coordination Committee, which has proved successful in the Stability Pact. The ban on speculation and reporting requirements apply to the whole sector of state, i.e. the distributed societies. The competent legislator, that is to say, depending on the legislative competence of the National Council or the Land Days, will implement this general ban on speculation. A constitutional empowerment law is necessary to ensure that it also applies to the cities and municipalities. I would ask the Constitutional Legislator to give his consent to this empowerment law. The Federal Government has already presented its legal framework. They are in front of the House and are soon to be consulted in the committees. I hope that the Constitutional Legislator will also agree to complement the simple legislation. Money from the federal government will only be available in the future with strict compliance with all requirements. We have determined that funds from the Federal Government through the Austrian Federal Finance Agency may only be made available to the countries and other legal entities if, in terms of the use of these funds, the same strict conditions have been agreed and applied by the OeBFA in connection with federal funds. The condition for OeBFA's action is, among other things, that a country has already ratified this Article 15a agreement. We want to insist that the Land Days quickly ratify this State Treaty so that it can be applied. The principle of risk-related practices includes the recognition that, while fully risk-free action is not possible to a hundred percent, the risks to be taken are to be limited to a minimum. There should no longer be any risk transactions that put tax money and taxpayers at risk. With ongoing controlling and greater transparency, we also create more security. After the financial scandal in Salzburg, the Federal Government, countries and municipalities acted quickly. Together we have decided on a strict and complete arrangement. The events have severely shaken people's confidence, because people rely on us to take care to deal with their hard-working tax money. I am convinced that this comprehensive package of measures will strengthen our confidence. The countries have proved that they are carrying state support here. All the countries, including Lower Austria, have agreed to these strict rules. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They deny until the end!]] Therefore, there will no longer be these speculations in the federal states. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They are repeaters!]] As with the debt brake, we and our contracting partners, namely countries, the municipal government and the municipal government, have proved that we are taking the right steps together. The Federal Government has also submitted an amendment to the Financial Constitution, which enshrines the ban on speculation with the principles mentioned above in the Financial Constitution. Hiefor this, a constitutional majority is necessary and therefore the consent of at least one opposition party. I thank you for the very constructive discussions so far. In particular, the Freedom Party has also indicated that it wishes to give its consent to such a constitutional provision. [[Abg. Strache: There are still a few things to do about our demands that have not yet been fulfilled!]] That the Greens have left the negotiating table first, but now I'm returning, I also value as a positive sign. I am confident that there will be an agreement here. This afternoon, following this urgent request, we will continue to negotiate. [[Abg. May. Kogler: There is once Lower Austria...!]] Now to answer the questions addressed to me. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Finally!]] Questions 1 to 5: According to § 1 para. 1 FMABG is a non-profit-making authority. The Federal Ministry of Finance has no information on specific supervisory cases. However, I can tell you that financial market supervision was, on its own, intensively active with regard to the investment funds established for the country of Lower Austria and has also examined them within the framework of an on-the-spot review, which is why the Federal Ministry of Finance did not have any reason to take measures in accordance with § 16 FMABG. On question 6: In principle, the Federal Ministry of Finance supports, to the extent specified by law, all departments which need information from the financial unit in order to fulfil the statutory tasks. Questions 7 to 9: The account report according to § 49 Investment Fund Act serves the information of investors and is to be submitted to the Supervisory Board of the management company. The accounting report shall be transmitted to the FMA and published in addition. This makes it publicly accessible anyway. Question 10: The recent agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities on a risky financial contribution provides that all must comply, inter alia, with the principle of risky financial conduct, laying down risk management guidelines for all relevant types of risk. This principle means, in particular, that there are no avoidable risks, including no open foreign currency risks, the conclusion of derivative financial instruments only for the purpose of securing an appropriate basic business, and that borrowings may not be made for medium and long-term purposes. [[Abg. Brosz: You can answer that with Yes or No, this question! Yes or no?]] So we give a clear rejection to speculation on debt. Further principles to which the Parties have committed themselves are the principle of strategic annual planning in relation to debt and liquidity management, appropriate guidelines by the relevant bodies, four-eye principle and the necessary knowledge and experience of the acting persons, and transparency/reporting obligations to decision-makers. These principles of the Agreement shall apply to all local authorities and all legal entities in the State sector and shall also be complied with if a legal entity transfers its financial operations partly or entirely to third parties. [[Abg. Brosz: Yes or no?]] The principle of transparency includes regular reports on transactions made and their debt and, last but not least, a penalty procedure for the federal, state and local authorities, which are based on the mechanisms of the Austrian Stability Pact. Reporting obligations exist to the National Council, to the Land Days, to the Statistics Austria, to the Public Debt Committee and to the Federal Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. May. Kogler: So no!]] Due to a decision of EUROSTAT from 2002 the liabilities of Blue Danube Loan Funding GesmbH amounting to around €2.5 billion to the government sector. This transaction has no effect on the Maastricht deficit. General government debt increased by around 2.5 billion in 2001. On the question 13: Answering this question would be linked to information about a specific taxable person. However, this is not subject to the obligation to issue confidentiality in accordance with § 48a BAO. Questions 14 and 15: Residential development is in legislation and execution of national affairs. It is therefore the responsibility of the countries to make adequate provision in their budgets. In the Stability Pact, we agreed that countries will receive planning security in terms of their income. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] On the question 16: According to reports by the countries under the 2008 Objective Grant Act on their housing development, in 2001 to 2008, the amount of assigned funds, i.e., as a difference between supply and export by the country, for the general national budgets, amounted to around €6.6 billion. Since the federal legal commitment was cancelled from 2009 onwards, the reports consistently no longer contain a description of the purpose commitment. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is practical!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e10251	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Total speaking time per club: 25 minutes. Mr Pilz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e10278	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! We have already experienced many urgent questions in this House. This is my memory of the first one in which the competent member of the board did not answer a single question – not a single one! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: I heard that last time too! He always says that!]] The crucial question – you know, Mrs. Dr. Fekter, and I – is Question No 10. I would like to repeat it because here the non-answer has a special meaning. The question has been answered: ‘Can you ensure that, with the legislation submitted to the National Council concerning the so-called ‘specification ban’, including the corresponding Article 15a agreement, another ‘case of Lower Austria’, i.e. speculation by divestment and re-investment of claims arising from housing loans, is excluded in future?’ I'm absolutely sure: If you could have given this insurance, you would have done it! There's nothing against it. The question, translated into a slightly different form, is: Can you guarantee that with your speculation ban Casino Pröll in St. Pults are locked up? – You know as well as I do that you can’t! That is why all of us, and not only in this House, ask ourselves the question: What side is the Minister of Finance on when it comes to speculation in the federal states? You have convinced me and everyone that you are ready to fight speculation until the last consequence when it comes to speculation of SPÖ. They are the hardest and most determined opponent of red speculation. But you should also convince us that you are at last hard and inflexible when it comes to black speculation. So are you on the side of the Court of Auditors or on the side of the ÖVP Lower Austria? Are you on the side of taxpayers and taxpayers, or are you on the side of ÖVP speculators in St. Pölten? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Dr. Fekter, you have answered this question clearly: Erwin Pröll and his speculators and Casino Pröll in St. Pölten still enjoy the protection of the Minister of Finance! That's why: Do not use the term “specification ban” anymore. If you are not able and not willing to prove the Lower Austrian head of state with a speculation ban, then no one can take your statements seriously about a speculation ban! [[Abg. Riddler: Such a fool!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] The speculations of your party are still more important to you than the interests of taxpayers to ban these speculations. [[Abg. Wheeler: Wait 3rd. March off!]] Now we go back in history: Well, what happened 10 years ago in St. Pölten? – A highly qualified agricultural economy and a highly qualified music school director have composed and said: The whole world speculates, only we two can't! [[Abg. Riddler: Such a fool!]] Instead of bringing in their skills, from the Earth apple harvest to the sound conductors, Erwin Pröll and the Landesrat Sobotka have decided to speculate! To speculate – only, they had a problem: There was no money there. Lower Austria was already indebted at the time. They had no money to speculate, but they wanted to speculate. So Pröll said if I don't have any money to speculate in the budget, then I'm going to get the housing funds, I've got business done, I've got head companies set up, foundations, funds, and I've been hiding a loan to speculate, went to Casino Pröll, opened it up – and already in the opening round a few hundred million euros wasted! [[Abg. Riddler: That's a joke!]] Then Pröll did what we know from Novomatic's automation halls. He said: Well, when I play, I'll win all the more next time – quickly back in to Casino Pröll! But there was still no money. However, there were still housing funds there, so there have been sales again, and Pröll has gone back to the casino – and has lost again! So, out, what can you do? – Not therapy, not player advice, but: [[Call the FPÖ: Spielerberatung!]] “I try again!” And this time: Property at the airport Vienna, property to the EVN, credit according to the old pattern. Off to Casino Pröll – and play again! [[Abg. Wheeler: 3. March!]] Then one fourth time: home building money again – and again playful! Mrs. Dr. Fekter, these aren't any money. This is something different than in Salzburg. In 2014 it appears that there will no longer be the sufficient substance for housing promotion in Lower Austria. Each year, 25 percent of the housing promotion funds flow back and go into new funding. This money doesn't exist anymore, and that's the real problem. [[Abg. Themessl:... also needs the housing promotion!]] Together with Dr. Pröll, they will have to answer how to finance housing development in the future. There are only two possibilities. Either the ÖVP Niederösterreich stands for this – but so much money does not even have the ÖVP Niederösterreich – or the taxpayers are asked to pay the tax again! That's exactly what's going on. The third possibility is: Young families in Lower Austria will have to pay more expensive rents. Maybe it's what it's all about. That's exactly the point we're at. Why, Mrs. Dr. Fekter, are you not willing to send your troika to St. Pölten? Why aren't you willing to extend the ban on speculation to the special speculations of Dr. Pröll? Why aren't you willing to stop the speculations of the ÖVP Lower Austria? Why do you cover Erwin Pröll? Why are you the shell madonna of black billions speculators? [[Abg. Rädler: Such a fear of the 3rd. March!]] This is exactly the point on which we are now dealing, and it is precisely this change that is also going to take place in Lower Austria. You did not answer a question: Will the financial market supervision carry out special audits? Will you be told? Do you even want to know what happened in Lower Austria? You have to imagine this: The Republic of Austria has a Finance Minister who does not want to know how much money has been speculated, who cannot be reported by the Financial Market Supervision, who obviously does not care about the election opportunities of the ÖVP summit candidate more important than a speculation ban in Lower Austria! That is why we will now also discuss a speculation ban on housing promotion funds, and Gabi Moser will submit an application that will make it possible to ban speculations with housing funds in the future, because we will not rely on you, Mrs. Dr. Fekter. We need legal regulations that make it impossible for you to give protection to Dr. Pröll in Lower Austria for his speculations. We must also make it impossible for you to make the wall in this House and in the Ministry of Finance. We need to ensure that people in Lower Austria can rely on their taxpayers to be used for apartments and not for casino use. That's the point, and you know it as well as I do: Corruption and speculation are nothing but massive redistribution processes from bottom to top. There are not only taxpayers and housing seekers who lose, there are also those who win. This is exactly the same as in the organized tax flight to Liechtenstein and Switzerland: 13 billions of taxes are withdrawn, the Minister of Finance can be disbursed with 1 billion and gives the organized tax evasion 12 billion €! That's how it looks with the speculations: They keep speculating, and you guarantee that the speculators and the banks associated with them will earn and that taxpayers will have to pay the bill further. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] ==References== March is in Lower Austria payday. But in this House, Mrs. Dr. Fekter, it should soon be clarified, not what Dr. Pröll's responsibility is – that is to decide voters – but what is the responsibility of a finance minister who places the interests of black speculators on the interests of the Republic of Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e10457	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e10479	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already amazing with what arrogance, superiority and perseverance the head of state of Lower Austria and his alternate move through the lands to speak beautifully of the disaster and the speculation losses. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens, BZÖ and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] In the clear text, ladies and gentlemen – and Mr. Cot very stupidly knows that –: The loss is now 1.8 billion. [[Call the FPÖ: So it is!]] Only, with these many zeros you easily lose the overview. What can you do with 1.8 billion? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – For example: Promote thousands of homes. Or – I just figured this out recently – we built a folk school in my community, around 10 million construction costs: 180 times this building – every citizen can imagine what a building volume that is – could have been built! [[Abg. Rädler: Why did SPÖ agree to Lower Austria?]] The consequences of these speculations, what are they? Mr Rädler, as a reading, I would recommend my speech at the current hour of the last parliamentary session. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Was good anyway!]] The consequences, what are they? – less supported apartments, less support for the house builders. Witnesses are the many landlords and also the nonprofit flat cooperatives. And what is the result? – The prices of the apartment rise to the exorbitant. These are the consequences, or that's just one of the consequences of the speculation losses. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the question arises: How does a country get the idea of speculating, installing housing funds? – I'm not quite with my colleague Pilz, who says: Speculate for the sake of speculation. I think Lower Austria has a very complex lifestyle and has already seen the reason in the treasure box in 2001. That is why money was needed, and that had to be obtained. The answer can also be found in the request for a government decision of May 2001 – I quote: Achieving additional income for the country of Lower Austria by increasing the return on currently un- or low-interested assets and achieving Maastricht-related revenue. - Quote. It is clear that the country needs money to finance the complex lifestyle. But it's no end in sight. In Lower Austria, funds are spent on pump, as if there were no morning – that is also said by the Court of Auditors – that is not necessarily my invention – even today. The Court of Auditors compares the financial situation of the federal states of Tyrol, Lower Austria and Carinthia and concludes that: Not only is the absolute debt in Lower Austria higher than in the Marod Carinthia, but also the per capita debt. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] 2005 to 2010 – this was the Court’s review period – the primary balance was consistently negative and was between minus € 188 million and minus € 624 million. This means that during this period, not only interest expenses but also operating expenditure had to be financed by further debt. One thing is clear: In reality Erwin Pröll has financed his supposed political achievements on pump. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] From 2005 to 2010, the debt level of Lower Austria increased from €1.7 billion to € 4 billion and thus more than doubled. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] - I don't say that. I can tell you who says this: the Court of Auditors report, series Lower Austria, 2012/3. - Read it! If not, I'll read it to you. Nevertheless, it is not being saved, because it dominates financial tricks at the expense of the future. [[Further call of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Financial councils with such a result usually withdraw. In Lower Austria, one is promoted to the state captain's office. If Sobotka explains his 2011 budget surplus and the excellent asset position, his budget tricks will of course remain unmentioned. In 2011 alone – and the losses were already known – an additional €500 million of residential loans were sold to the own mortgage bank. Reflows and interest rates are missing in future budgets. Instead of getting out, you've continued. In addition, in 2011 deposits amounting to € 142 million were dissolved to finance current expenditure. This is also reflected in the Court of Auditors' report. [[Abg. Rädler: Wait for the 3rd. March!]] In the years 2002 – because this is mentioned again and again, I can't hear it anymore – by 2008 375 million € were paid out from the substance of these housing funds to the country for a balanced budget to make the budget pretty. Mr President, I think you are coming here to the speaker's desk – what kind of business model is this when you sell €8.2 billion and earn €4.4 billion? What is this business model if you have 8.2 billion euros and after a few years have generated a loss of 1.8 billion euros? What kind of business model is this when annual payments from the substance go to the country and actually the expected 4.6 percent have not been made? This business model, ladies and gentlemen, is not recommended for imitation, but there is a lack of insight in Lower Austria. You have to say that clearly. That's sad, but it's true. Self-knowledge – this is an old saying – would be the first way to improve, but here you are far away. I asked the then Minister of Finance Pröll in 2010. He just meant: It is currently premature to comment on the policy of the Netherlands, and the development of detailed rules on the Court of Auditors' recommendations is the responsibility of the Lower Austria State. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: He refuses to do so!]] Well, how far we've come, we know. It is therefore time for all the federal states to adopt the strict rules of federal budgetary law, and for us to decide on a ban on speculation, one that does not leave behind doors open, for the engulfing of tax funds once and for all belongs to a bar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e10618	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvo. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e10639	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I actually have a very differentiated relationship with today's urgent question. On the one hand, I am pleased because one can compare these scandalization attempts with concrete facts and facts, on the other hand, this is already a classical abuse of a urgent request. Nearly two weeks before the country election, this is a pure election aid for the Greens in Lower Austria. Now I am already clear – and I have a human understanding – that the Greens are so weak in Lower Austria that they actually need any support, so they have already delivered election campaign ammunition at the current hour. [[Abg. Wheeler: Oh you!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: But go!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] But let's stick to the facts and facts. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I'm not going to give you any details. I'm just saying the naked facts and facts. With ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ decisions in 2001 and 2007, Niederösterreich sold housing funds and saved 4.4 billion Schilling. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Now comes the bill again!]] And, Mr Kogler, the consideration was not how we can better invest the money. That would be absurd. I beg you! In Lower Austria it has been said that we have an increased need in the social field. We want to expand the social model of Lower Austria. We want more nursing homes, more hospitals, we want to abolish the regress, we want more kindergartens. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's just the substance!]] I need money to do that. And I don't have any of it when the housing funds flow back in 15, 20, 25 years. I want the money today. That's why it was like a savings book. I can cancel the money at any time. That was also said by the previous speakers. € 1.9 billion has been abolished for the implementation of the social model of Lower Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say that I am full of the opinion of Erwin Pröll, who said again yesterday, we do not want to have in Lower Austria that a young family gets into difficulties of existence because a parent needs care. [[Abg. May. Kogler: will explain that!]] This is where the Rules have been abolished, and it remains abolished, Mr President. That's social responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: And that's why you take the housing promotion?- Oh, my God!]] They act here like profit-seeking capitalists. They ask: Why has there been only a 3.2 percent return over the last 10 years? Why wasn't it 5 percent or more than 5 percent? This is pure greed from capitalist people, Mr Kogler. [[Abg. Street: 5 to 6 percent would be necessary!]] You don't seem to notice that. Here stands social responsibility, expansion of the social system – and there is greed for higher returns. These are two pairs of shoes. We have decided to say here: We assume social responsibility. [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: But speculations started in 2001!]] On the figures – Mr Kuzdas, I am discussing only on the basis of data and figures –: €4.4 billion was the proceeds. € 1.9 billion has been collected for the social model region. After Adam Ries, €2.5 billion remains. In reality, €3.3 billion is available. That means that is a profit of € 800 million, exactly € 824 million. That's €824 million real profit. [[Abg. Rädler: This is crazy!]] Read the Court of Auditors report of 6. December 2012 and no old reports! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Grosz.]] Read that! The Court of Auditors says: Lower Austria has implemented all the Court of Auditors’ recommendations on risk minimisation. [[New calls from Members Königsberger-Ludwig and Grosz.]] And Lower Austria has achieved a profit and no loss from it. This is the last Court of Auditors report of 6. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, these facts cannot be discussed away. The third is the debt problem, please. Here again only the facts and facts: Lower Austria has financial debt of €3.5 billion and has a financial assets of € 6.6 billion. That means it has a positive balance of €3.1 billion. These figures cannot be disproved. You can bring so many details. That's the nude numbers, and that's what we're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, something else: Moody’s credit rating agency – you know what a credit rating agency is – recently awarded the Triple A to Lower Austria. You know what triple A means? – Triple A means sound financial conduct, solid finances with a positive future perspective. Yes, that counts for me a little more than the scandalization attempts of the opposition, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now we know why Moody’s was shot!]] Look, the vast majority of the Lower Austrians – read today's newspapers, opinion polls – wants clear conditions in Lower Austria, you can still make so many attempts at scandalization. I'm going to tell you: ==References== In March, this great desire of the majority of the Lower Austrians will be fulfilled, namely, clear conditions by a clear majority. That was always our position. You can still scandalize so much and make so many press talks in the next few days, this great desire of the majority in Lower Austria, in my opinion – I am absolutely convinced of that – will be on 3 March. March to be fulfilled. [[Abg. Rädler: That's it!]] So leave it. You're going to try these scandals! This is a social responsibility against greed! If you're talking about the returns being too low, I say there's something like a social return, and the social return was the responsibility for kindergartens, for nursing homes, for the abolition of regrets, for the expansion of the hospital. This is a real perception of social responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] And, honestly, I would like to abandon a percentage point and rather have a percentage point less return if I can realize all of this and not only in 15 or 20 years when the money then flows back, ladies and gentlemen. That is the truth, these are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. Again: Believe me, the 3. March will confirm what I said today!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e10873	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Strache. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e10895	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I am not the greener's mandatory defender, but if you make yourself here today and give the best of this urgent question of the Greens, I ask you: What kind of democratic understanding do you have? That's really bad. That's really bad. It is a fundamental right of parliamentarians and, of course, also of the Greens to bring this urgent question here today and to address, question and highlight these issues openly. [[Congratulation with FPÖ, SPÖ and Greens]] They're playing the Pröll's arrogance. You can mutilate them at the latest, no later than 3. March, hopefully. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's time to clear this arrogance of the ÖVP. It's really time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Of course, one can always practice criticism, and of course we all know that our close relationship with the greens is not really an intimate one. We don't need to talk about that. We fight very well in many areas. One can discuss the fact that the Greens, of course, when illuminating the Lower Austrian election campaign, do not get in the right direction themselves and therefore perhaps need such an urgent request, well, but that is a fundamental right they have. It must be said, of course, that the speculation developments that we have in Austria, of course, not only concern the country of Lower Austria, but also Salzburg, also Vienna, where the Greens are at least with it today. And you have to say that you don't hear anything from the AVZ Foundation or even the Frankenspekulations business or from the many Cross-Border-Leasing shops. This is sad, because it would be necessary for one to finally end this speculation Mass in Vienna, if one is in government responsibility, which is not the case to this day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You should also ask your city councillor Maria Vassilakou why the subway today belongs and needs to be read back to some American investment fund, and the railways and the canal and all these areas, as is the case today in red-green Vienna, and where, of course, you are on board. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But the foreign currency credits will be reduced!]] So it's quite amazing when They open their mouths very far on this question today, but even in Vienna they have kept silent and have not cleaned up anything here until now. Of course it is good, ladies and gentlemen, that the scandal has occurred in Salzburg. The Gabi Burgstaller must be grateful that this speculation scandal has been so loud, because without the fantastic crisis management of the Gabi Burgstaller this would probably have remained below the ceiling, and then we would also have discussed the other cases in Lower Austria or in Vienna, which occur, and the media would not have entered them at all. In this way one must be grateful to her that all this is now being revealed and that the ceiling of silence is finally breaking up here. Of course, this is particularly true of the black state, the land of the mountains. In Lower Austria, in the land of the mountains, you almost have the impression that the highest mountain is the debt mountain. That's where the head of state Erwin Pröll has a lot of butter on his head, because that's what he caused in his responsibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, you have to write this quite openly to the ÖVP in the main book. To act as if there was no responsibility for the ÖVP, especially in the absolute omnipotence and arrogance and prepotence that has been lived there for years by the ÖVP, that is not possible, that is not to be rejected by the hand. I say at this Butterberg, which Erwin Pröll has on his head, with the billions of losses in the area of speculation of housing funds, you have to talk about it openly. If you then make yourself here, Mr. stupid, and in the sense of an Orwell’s diction then try to sell red numbers that are present as real results as black numbers as great profits, then this is really ridiculous. That's really ridiculous. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Data! Facts! Read it!]] It seems that Mr Pröll Erwin has thought that he is now doing his federal state as a whole internationally by using and sinking the money of taxpayers and Lower Austrians for speculation operations in Ireland and Luxembourg. In Lower Austria, therefore, the corruption prosecutorship is also entirely right to investigate various developments. Over the entire process of billions of losses in the speculated housing funds, while in Carinthia we are excited that Mr. Dörfler has switched on a Christmas inserat. – Only so much to compare the excitement in one federal state and the excitement in the other federal state. I always say: In Carinthia, it has been shown how, with a future fund, € 520 million of taxpayers are also guaranteed to have investment capital for the future of Carinthia, while in Lower Austria everything has been speculated. I wonder at all how you can be so unfrozen and can come up with the idea of getting public funds back and then putting them in and “burning ” in a speculative way. How can one believe to be weaved and boiled out than the professional wall-street-sockers who are on the way? The only thing is absurd and shows this irresponsibility of the responsibilities in action. We liberals are, of course, – Mrs Fekter, I am giving you this – for a general ban on speculation with public funds in all areas without a back door, without any shattering formulations, where you can slip through somewhere, and at the end of the day you have to experience similar misdevelopments, as is the case now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need a transparent accounting system, according to the principles of double accounting, in order to ensure a capital account as well. Of course, there must also be the Court of Auditors' legitimate control rights. And, of course, if any country goes here and provides false figures, the criminal consequences must be brought with it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It can't be that there is no way at all to derive from it the consequences of criminal law. As early as November 2008, we have already made a request here in this House regarding the ban on speculation and the risk of tax charges. We have already called for that. And then red and black rejected the liberal request. We could have implemented this speculation ban since then, but, as I said, it was prevented from being reddish and black. If one takes the small communities in Lower Austria, for example Karlstetten, then one sees, there are high amounts speculated. With 2078 inhabitants there one has speculated € 1.4 million. [[Abg. May. Kogler: In Amstetten € 9 million!]] – Also in Amstetten, and there are many, many other examples. Lower Austria is the debt European Championship country. That's what you have to call by name. I fear that in Vienna, Salzburg and Lower Austria all that we know today is only the tip of the iceberg. There are still enough bodies in the basement, and it is therefore necessary for the Court of Auditors to be able to receive generous auditing skills and to carry out special audits in the federal states. It cannot be that there are no sanctions if the Court of Auditors is going to lie and is not presented with the right documents. There's a lot to do, Mrs. Fekter! It must not happen that national leaders such as Pröll or also Häupl in Vienna are raking up public funds and turning their federal states into casinos, as is the case with the Cross-Border leasing business at present. Of course, we also need to ensure water as a public property, if we are already talking about bans on speculation, and in negotiations to ensure that this is also guaranteed by constitutional law, so that our Austrian water remains the public property of the Austrians, namely the citizen, and not that it is said: No, we're not ready for that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the case of a ban on speculation, all areas in the interests of the Austrians must also be guaranteed constitutionally. Not only can we talk about it. Then you will get our support as well. If you are not willing to do so, then you can't support it when a rear door comes up again, so that you can privatize the water and continue to speculate with public taxpayers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The country of Lower Austria has believed in having to make fast money by selling residential loans. This idea of course cost the Lower Austrians 1 billion €. This is a simple bill: If you need 5 to 6 percent to get the rest by the low sales revenue or at least cover it, but this 5 to 6 percent has not done, but a maximum of 2 to 2.5 percent, then you have of course not approached the value of it until today, after ten years, but, on the contrary, further residues. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] These residues are there. And when Erwin Pröll turns up during an interview with PULS 4 and says: We do not know how the next ten years will go out, and at the end of the day, a plus could look out!, that's what he's talking about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This shows that Erwin Pröll has not learned to this day and is not even willing to admit that he has made a mistake. It is therefore high time that the voters gave Mr. Erwin Pröll, but also the ÖVP on 3 March. March in Lower Austria gives a correct answer to eliminate this superiority and this self-glority of the Prince of the State, who truly believes that the country of Lower Austria is his private property. There must be more democracy, more participation, more civil rights and more transparency for our friends back there in the last row in Lower Austria, because it is necessary because it is important and because it is good for the country. That is precisely why I hope that in all these incredible sins people will also have the right consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e11063	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e11085	High house! As one who has been a little concerned with the speculation policy of recent years, since 2008, I find this all very remarkable, especially today's speech by the Minister of Finance. I can already agree with Mr Pilz. We still have the threatening voice, the threatening voice of the Minister of Finance in the hearing when it came to Salzburg. Greece was the first word. That's immediately dried up, just that you didn't call out the national disaster. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] With the threatening voice I still have in my ear canal, typical of Fekter, she has tried here to criminalize Carinthia on a flat-rate basis. She tried to criminalise the deceased head of state Jörg Haider, even though she then insisted that the true fault of selling the hypo to her party colleague and then party leader Josef Pröll is that he has put it into us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Today, the former Minister of the Interior, the current Minister of Finance Maria Fekter, is heard sitting suddenly very similar on the government bank above and in fact it is not possible to take the word Lower Austria into the mouth in 25 minutes. She swaddered about it, which is not all right in Salzburg, which is not all right in Linz, but the word Niederösterreich then occurred in a sentence when asking the individual questions. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Haven't you been careful?]] Otherwise, one has smelled the sweat of the fear of ÖVP delegates from Erwin Pröll – except for a few Erwinists, who carry the Erwin-Pröll Memorial, who feel quite secure there, such as Col. Hornek – also an actual Erwinist, one also sees visually that he already looks very similar to his partyobmann and state captain. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] But there was the fear of the Minister of Finance: Just don't touch it at the clumsy! €1.8 billion are gone, speculated by a Lower Austrian head of state and by a Lower Austrian financial officer who would have really been better off with his original profession! But for this, the Minister of Finance does not find a word of disaster, not a exhorting word that one cannot and cannot speculate here, but the Minister of Finance says that she immediately responded to Salzburg about the Christmas holidays, that is now all in butter, as we will now control, this is a state treaty that is now being signed, and after today's plenary session there is still a negotiation. [[the speaker increases his voice]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] We heard this today from the Minister of Finance. She forgets, however, that the speculation losses in Austria have been flying around our ears since 2008. I remember the Styrian communities of Trieden and Fohnsdorf, but also the black Hartberg. I remember the parish speculation. At that time, in the years 2008 and 2009, we have already closed down to the federal states and warned against the fact that the federal states are coming out of the devil and sinking the tax money of the Austrians, the citizens of the respective federal states. And the Minister of Finance comes four or five years later, in 2013 on it: Now let's make a state agreement! Mrs Finanzminister, this is not what we expect from a reasonable, transparent and above all responsible financial policy. This is the tax money of the Austrians and not the play money that you can allocate to Monopoly your national leaders, such as Mr Pröll or the Grand Coalitionary Government Friend Burgstaller. I would also like to say something to Mr Strache. I agree with him, but in one point I do not agree. The future fund of the country of Carinthia, which Jörg Haider founded for good reason – in order for him to invest in education, research, science and technology in Carinthia – is now clear to your head of state Dörfler, former beer leader, in order to cover nothing but his marionette appearance, his marionette-like policy in the knee trap in front of the brothers Scheuch. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Jörg Haider founded the future fund for good reason. This future fund, as well as it is taught, shows that Jörg Haider has acted well in economic and financial terms; contrary to these criminalization attempts by some tonesurers in the Austrian People's Party, who daily worship Mr Erwin Pröll in the Lord's corner. [[Abg. Hear: Where?]] Jörg Haider has acted correctly in financial policy. That is why it is all the more disgraceful that now the FPK, FiK, or whatever the liberals in Carinthia are called – this abbreviation is nothing unreasonable – to go in the person of Mr. Doerfler and clear out the iron reserve for this future fund. It should also be clear to you, Mr. Strache, that if you have such a money, you have such reserves, you can use them to ensure that in the future the economic upturn in this beautiful federal country like Carinthia, after these terrible four years of an unintelligent state government under Gerhard Dörfler, will finally take place. [[Abg. Strache: Carinthia will give the money! Give this to the Carinthians before it's worth nothing more in this inflation!]] [[BZÖ and Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[Abg. Strache: Thank you for the recommendation of election for Gerhard Dörfler!]] The majority of Carinthians long for the times of Jörg Haider and his successor party, BZÖ. They want such times as under the Scheuch regime to be over in the future. That's our opinion, too. I therefore believe that it will be necessary – in the knowledge of these speculation scandals, which the Minister of Finance loves to negate, because it catches her almighty Mr Pröll, and also in the knowledge of the speculation scandals in Salzburg – and in Linz, and in shoots, and in Fohnsdorf. [[Abg. New builder: And in Linz!]] Let's ask what else will come out with TIWAG in Tyrol. That can be continued. [[Mr Hörl and Mr Hornek.]] – Look, now the Upper Forest hunter by Mr Platter is yelling in the previous row, here the Erwin is from Lower Austria. It is funny that the Austrian Parliament has developed from independent MEPs to puppets of its national leaders, and this is reflected again in this debate today. Loudly remote-controlled Tamagotchis, who give forward the words of their national leaders here instead of trying to use their own brains and also spiritually and intellectually separate themselves from their party headquarters in the capitals of the country. [[Abg. Clickovits: The problem is that you have none!]] This would be a good thing for the representatives of the Austrian People's Party. But to get back: What we need in Austria is a ban on speculation for municipalities, countries and the federal government, namely a ban on speculation, which also deserves its name; because it is in the 21st century. After all the scandals that have shaken this Republic, it is indecent and immoral when hard-worked tax money is still speculated in casino manners.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e11277	Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger's next speech. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e11298	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! You have to say one thing: Since the ÖVP in Lower Austria the sole rule, which has sole power, is going down and over in this country. [[Abg. Clickovits: But it has been elected democratically!]] The black hand has so to speak spread over the federal state, and without any party book or without membership of the Lower Austrian Farmers' Federation, nothing goes at all in Lower Austria. [[Call to the ÖVP: Is this an application for membership now?- Oh, my God!]] However, we have not only a head of state who has laid the black hand over Lower Austria, we also have a finance council, but we have not seen it at all for a few weeks now. He is probably on vacation or perhaps hiding him from the head of state of Lower Austria. I'd rather hand him over to the prosecutor's office personally. On the other hand, of course, this would be stupid, because after Strasser this would be already the second Pröll-Günstler, which is connected with the prosecutor's office. It is only questionable who is in the league for Straster and Sobotka, the third or the next, but we will hopefully still notice or see it in due course. ==References== It is hoped that the Absolute in Lower Austria will be chosen, and then light will come into this entire financial debacle. Then there is transparency in finances, truth in the field of party funding, but also fairness to those – I have already said – who do not have a black party book or are not a member of the Lower Austrian Farmers' Federation. But I also believe that the blacks in Lower Austria in particular fear massively to lose the Absolute, because then it is exposed in Lower Austria. I just hope that the Greens here will not become climbing stickers for pomps and will not support the further cover-up or even wasting. I hope that the slogan “Whoever chooses green chooses Pröll” will finally be transported here via the media. I hope it's not. But I also believe that it is time for the greatest state secret to be ventilated, namely, how many billions of tax money have really been charged. Lower Austria is based on speculative charges financed by taxpayers. €3.3 billion has been committed via the FIBEG. It also says that the country of Lower Austria wants to optimize its debt with the help of risky foreign exchange transactions. So this portfolio is supposed to be 1.3 billion heavy. Swaps in Icelandic crowns, options on Swiss francs – I think that is not the core business of the state of Lower Austria. More billions are still swirling around somewhere in the room. There is nothing or hardly anything known about direct debt making in Lower Austria. Financial debt has been increased from €1.7 billion to € 4 billion, and this within just four years of the sole rule of the ÖVP or of Mr Erwin Pröll. The dark figure is, however, €6 billion. There are liabilities of € 12.8 billion, with € 5.9 billion – you have to imagine that! – the hypo Lower Austria. In other words, de facto is already the next banking scandal preprogrammed next to the KA Finance or also the Hypo Alpe Adria. [[Abg. Strache: Only that this hypo does not belong to Bayern, unlike the hypo Carinthia!]] In other words, the ÖVP can prepare for a future banking scandal. The rest of the liabilities relate to sold residential loans and NÖ Landes-Behörtungsholding GmbH. Liabilities have increased by 80 percent in recent years, i.e. I repeat it again, in the years of Pröll's solo rule. There you can only say more: Thank you to the ÖVP Lower Austria, especially to Sobotka State Councillor and, not to mention, to our head of state! I also read in some newspaper, in Lower Austria there seems to be a very creative accounting. The fact that it is not saved that it will continue to live on pump, is further invested is an open secret. In the previous year, new residential loans amounting to €500 million were sold to the home-owned mortgage, but the return flows and interest rates are missing in the next budgets, in the budgets of future generations. The per capita debt – that has already been said by Mr Kogler – is higher in Lower Austria than that in Carinthia. In addition, deposits amounting to € 142 million were dissolved to finance current expenditure in order to be able to meet the budget. That's how it looks in reality, so it looks like in the black Pröll country! What you have to ask yourself is: Can one see in Lower Austria the greatest speculation damage in the Republic? Or has the charge, as Pröll and Sobotka claim, actually brought a profit of €824 million? It is true that in any case both gentlemen deceive their own members with misinformation in order not to have to say: just lie. Pröll writes to his party members – and I assume you will all have read it: “We made 824 million euros with the assumption – which was jointly decided with SPÖ and FPÖ in 2001. This means a plus of over three percent over the last ten years. The Court of Auditors too has literally confirmed the positive balance on the initial balance and has also found that we have the appropriate arrangements in order to avoid a risk.” What you have to ask yourself is: Is Pröll really telling the truth now? Does he say the untruth? One loses the overview of these speculation shops very quickly. In fact, no one knows about it, and I believe that the least of the music teachers from Waidhofen know each other and even less of our head of state. It is therefore true – and this is also to be said now – that the Court of Auditors has actually said, or that it has concluded that the performance of the funds in question has been lowered by the end of 2008 and that the long-term profit target of the country has been missed by just under €1 billion. Around 44 percent of the disbursements to the country – that is, €862 billion in total – have been made from the fund's substance. The fact that one has to resort to the substance is probably because one has not been able to achieve the expected gains. These gains had already been included in the budget, but unfortunately God has failed. It is even more unlikely, therefore, that the value of origin of € 8 billion, which one has hoped for, will be reached during this period of charges. But that also means that one will have to assume that the losses will grow well over a billion € and that we will have a more massive financial problem in Lower Austria. This too is a fact for the future perspective for the Pröll-Land Lower Austria. I'm just saying, We could have used this money, which we've lost. We still have enormous unemployment in Lower Austria. Lower Austria is second after Vienna in this respect. The “working poor” is also the top rider in Lower Austria: 25 percent of over 50 years of age do not have a job. In other words, in the future, what I hope will not happen, we must expect enormous poverty in old age. The question is also: What did Niederösterreich lose in Hedgefonds? What does Lower Austria have to do with the trade of precious metals or industrial metals? Why does Lower Austria have Ramshan loans? I think this is not the core business of the country of Lower Austria. Colleague stupid – he's not here now, but that doesn't matter – today, with his wording, he actually gave a yes to Casino Pröll, a yes to other casinos in Austria. ==References== March can only be a clear No, a clear rejection to Casino Pröll!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e11369	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e11391	Mr President. High house! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. – He's not even here. [[Abg. Neubauer: He's already in the casino in black!]] If all of this is such a great business and so many money could be accounted for for in the “Social Model of Lower Austria”, the question arises why the corruption prosecutor’s office needs to be identified. If you look at the Court of Auditors reports – which he obviously does not – you can see straight and clear that the losses in 2008 had been made with just under one billion €; and the 2012 report was clear and clear that these losses could not be recovered. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Hornek.]] – That’s the truth, read this, even if your Member is stupid and head of state Pröll is constantly claiming something different! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now on the question: Is the ban on speculation, as Mrs Fekter – not even present – has suggested, or not, that “Casino Pröll” prevent? [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Deputies Amon and Slickovits.]] My answer is a clear no; I will try to justify that. In § 17 of the Financial Constitution, it is clear that the financial performance is risk-making. But it is also clear within which shops are forbidden. However, it is not in that it is prohibited that charges be made from the proceeds of sales of housing promotion loans or other public-owned proceeds. That is, it is still possible to bring proceeds from such transactions into speculative charges. Paragraph 2 of this Section provides that a uniform federal regime for a risk-related assessment. If the Minister of Finance says that the heart of this is an Article 15a agreement with the countries, that is already a contradiction, because “nationally uniform” means: There is a financial constitution law and an implementing law. However, we have ten implementing laws and ten different directives. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us look at what will be contained in these implementing laws and in these directives. Sorry, but I have no confidence in Mr Pröll, who still claims that what he does is a success. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] And as long as he claims it, I cannot imagine that he will make an implementing law and a directive that does not represent his claims as a risk agent. This is a joke, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The next point: This Article 15a agreement, which lays down principles for the prohibition of speculation, is dilapidated like a noodle sieve. This starts with the separation of risk management and treasury. It refers only to the personal separation, the question of appropriateness is not asked. But there is also something very essential that Professor Pichler has always stressed, namely the setting of risk limits, of risk buffers. Mr. Pichler also says again and again: What applies to the Austrian banks, even the smallest banks in our country, must only apply to the federal, state and local authorities. All this is not contained in this article-15a agreement! Next point: How do we intend to implement this Article 15a agreement if there is no transparency about which Mrs Finanzminister spoke? If one cannot even find out what the market value changes of such charges look like, can it not even be? If you want to represent these market value changes, you need a modern transparent accounting system, which is honest and complete, covering all transactions and representing all market values. Otherwise, it won't happen. Otherwise, speculation will continue to be opened door and gate. This article-15a agreement cannot therefore be a heartpiece, but is the great vulnerability. [[Abg. May. Kogler: heart disease!]] If, now, Mrs Finanzminister says that the Austrian Coordination Committee is the appropriate committee to control what the countries are doing in the future, I can only say that is a mockery. This Austrian Coordination Committee has never worked. In the Austrian Stability Pact, there have been violations in the ongoing band, but no penalty has been pronounced at all. I am already asking myself whether the sanctions provided for will be applied, whether, in any case, a very complex procedure will lead to a debate on a criminal provision. Finally, this may be a weaker point: Of course, Article 15a agreements can be terminated at any time. If they're terminated, then it's over. Then speculation can be continued like ever. As long as these gaps that I have spoken about are not improved, I do not think we can agree to this regulation as a ban on speculation. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because it's none!]] We need a waterproof regulation. In other words, we must incorporate the criticism I have presented here, but it is also presented by the President of the Court of Auditors, Moser, and the proposals made by Professor Pichler, into these speculation bans. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e11506	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e11527	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues in particular from the ÖVP! [[The speaker presents a table entitled “The Success of the Statements by 2012 [incl. Interest on bank debt]’ means the speaker’s desk.]] [[Call the ÖVP: This is a picture of the St. Pöltner main station! Is that the new high-rise on it?]] At least in Lower Austria, the use of housing funds on the international financial markets has been highly controversial for many years, not only at the political level. Fact one: Today, it has already been noted a few times that the Federal Court of Auditors and not the Lower Austrian State Accounting Court have more than strongly criticized the claims of the housing funds of the state of Lower Austria on international financial markets only a few weeks ago in its report. [[Call the ÖVP: Mr. Colleague, take this down, then see more!]] In fact, you do not understand, Mr. Cot: [[Abg. Hornek: Yes!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hornek]] In the last ten years, the value of the Lower Austrian housing funds has fallen from € 8.2 billion to €3.3 billion. Ask your financier Mr. stupidly how he dealt with this – with a record slide or with a dredging calculator or perhaps with an expert. [[Call to the ÖVP: That's it too! You got it!]] I repeat: The value of housing funds in Lower Austria has fallen from € 8.2 billion to €3.3 billion in the last ten years! Fact number three: Due to the loss of value, the speculation yield of many million euros has also remained behind expectations. This is about the example of Mr. stupid: 5 : 0 they would have wanted to win at the football match, unfortunately they only won 3 : 0. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that a serious loss has occurred due to these speculations. Fact number four is that the bank debt of the country of Lower Austria has more than tripled in the same period of speculation, about the last ten years. That's also a fact. Look out, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, if you don't know about it in Lower Austria, I'll tell you right now: You have tripled from € 1 billion to € 3.5 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What's that supposed to tell us? . I mean, speculation in Lower Austria has financed nothing extra. Nothing was additionally financed. No new values were created, but it was simply destroyed in the international financial casinos. That's fact number five. Ladies and gentlemen! I would think that each of us can do what he wants with his private property – not everything, but most of it. That's good and right. But if the taxpayers' money in the casino is covered up, that's what I'd say, not right. To express it even more clearly: The speculations with public funds have to be taboo. What does that mean for Lower Austria? – The €3.3 billion tax money, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, which is still on international stock exchanges, must be recovered as soon as possible. [[Abg. Grosz: And for Salzburg?- Oh, my God!]] Again to repeat, so that you also understand: €3.3 billion. For example, this money could be used to repay the national debt or to invest more effectively in a future fund to support the communities. However, the money could also create real, direct values for people, such as the expansion of childcare facilities in Lower Austria, sustainable housing for young people, the creation of small local retirement centres or the financing of regional environmental transport projects. Ladies and gentlemen! The hard-working tax money is there to serve the people. The tax money is certainly not there to speculate on international financial markets. [[Abg. Hornek: Tell us what's on the Taferl!]] It's true, even if you don't like to hear it: The casino humanity, with which in Lower Austria, admittedly elsewhere, is dealt with with by taxpayers, only makes a right conclusion, and this is – and it has been said more often today – that: It needs an absolute ban on speculation for countries and also for municipalities, without loopholes. [[Call the ÖVP:For the ÖBB!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] For Lower Austria, an orderly exit from the charges is the only chance to save the country from even greater damage. That is written in your personal master book, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e11729	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm's speech. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e11750	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! I can tell you, the fairy tale hour is over. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now we come to the facts of which so much has been spoken, but it seems that reading is not powerful and is not understood at all. Lower Austria is the only federal country with a balanced budget 2011 and 2012 – that will also be the case in 2013. Niederösterreich has, that is right, arranged for the first time in 2001. The basis, of course, is a land day decision with the votes of the ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ. This is transparently rereadable in the protocols. In 2004, another charge was made in Lower Austria with a Landtag decision, more than €900 million. This rural decision has been approved by the Greens, the Reds and, of course, by us, the People's Party. I'm allowed the Green Member Dr. Helga Krismer from the protocol of 9. Quote this year 2004. She said: This holding would be almost negligent in financial terms, and we therefore fully agree. I don't think that's all you have to say. [[Abg. Amon: Who was that? Who said that?]] – Ms. Dr. Krismer, Green Member, on 9 October. ==References== [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Now to do as if you knew nothing, just because in a few days there are country elections, is actually embarrassing. They go to the level of a lord walking around the country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We're coming next: That was right at the time, in 2001 and 2004, I also say so. We believed at that time that we could profit profit profit accordingly at 5 percent interest. In the last ten years, however, it has not been 5 percent, but 3.5 percent. I wonder who has had so much on the savings book in recent years. In this way we have until the 13th century. Last December, a profit of €824 million can be achieved. The Federal State of Lower Austria has made no minus of the claims in 2002 to the present day. The Lower Austrians should know that too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: You don't believe that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore also appropriate to bring the Court of Auditors' report as it stands. The Court of Auditors says: We cannot speak here of a false amount, we are talking here of a lesser yield. Right, we didn't reach the goal. I do not want to mention a small difference between Lower Austria and Salzburg: Lower Austria has invested a fortune. We have wealth and we have caused it, and we have done it well. Salzburg has received loans and incurred debts. That's, I mean, a huge difference. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Even if in 12 days there are country elections, the profit remains a profit. It won't be any more, it won't be less. It's just that, that's facts. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Let's look at Lower Austria in general! Today many have already spoken, although they know that there is Lower Austria, they do not know the country or the people, nor do they know the appropriate measures that have been taken in recent years. Lower Austria has debt of €3.3 billion. However, there is a financial assets of €6.2 billion, and this is without consideration of the real estate. With this wealth we are in Lower Austria behind Vorarlberg and Tirol. That's a fact. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Did you write the speech of Mr. Landes Captain? Or Mr Sobotka?]] – Don’t talk if you don’t know anything! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If someone calls after the Court of Auditors: The Court of Auditors was in Lower Austria and examined. The Court of Auditors is in Lower Austria and audited. [[Abg. May. Kogler: And is constantly plagued in Lower Austria!]] That is why I can only say: To the question of whether there is a loss, it has answered with a clear no! Now, for us, the question is: What did the federal state of Lower Austria, this evil country captain and this evil music school director, our head of state, do with the profit of €824 million? – The two, I just want to say, have at least one profession they have worked on, and they understand something about it. That's just by the way. With these €824 million, we have made low Austria social. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You could have done that without loss!]] We have launched a kindergarten offensive, we have spent 600 million € on the construction, conversion and construction of kindergartens. We have two and a half years there. What we're talking about here at the federal level, we've done this in Lower Austria for a long time. We've expanded the nursing homes. They're top care homes. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Sorry! You don't need to do that!]] – Mr Kogler, it does not help, you can shout, so it does not become more true. We have created 3 500 cots in addition. In other federal states, the Regress was introduced, not in Lower Austria. In Lower Austria, the Regress remains abolished. We don't bring him in again, like the other federal states did. We don't. We can afford to have the Regress abolished. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sacher.]] Above all, we will do it in the sense of the young families who do not have to think about how they can pay for the care of the parents, the mothers and fathers. This is Lower Austria. This is the Lower Austrian social region. We can make a positive assessment. Today, you can pour Mr. Erwin Pröll, as you want, the Lower Austrians and Lower Austrians have failed than you believe they see the achievements. In recent years, we have put €2 billion in the national clinics in Lower Austria. Go to a hospital in Lower Austria! It's great. [[Abg. Petzner: Yes, with a debt that is so!]] We don't take you in our hospital, I have to say that, just by the way. We have invested in residential construction – €9.35 billion in investment for construction companies and thus for jobs. 30 000 jobs in the housing sector, that is not the case alone. We have over 600 000 employees in Lower Austria. You think that's from Bankomat No. Down 7? This is hard work every day, with our head of state at the top. The Greens have in their request that Erwin Pröll turn the federal state into a casino. I've got something against casinos, that's a soccer or a gaming. I can only say one thing: If you call it that way, there is always a winner in Lower Austria and a winner, namely the Lower Austrian and the Lower Austrians, because of the facts that I have just put into practice. This is because there is one who has a safe hand even in uncertain times: Chief of State Dr. Erwin Pröll! That's how it looks!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e11921	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e11942	Mr President. High house! [[The speaker presents a table entitled “Tricksen like the Greeks: Thus the ÖVP speculates 10,000 cheap apartments” on the speaker’s desk.]] [[Abg. Petzner: That's too small! You can't read that!]] Mrs Schittenhelm, you have previously tried to view the fairy tale hours of the colleague from SPÖ as finished. I can tell you, you prolonged the fairy tale hour. My children would probably be asleep at home after 2 minutes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For us, in reality, only the question arises: Who wrote you this speech? Was the head of state Pröll himself? Or was it Sobotka? We have rarely heard so much nonsense – apologise for the expression. That's where we'll get to the point. Casino Pröll, System Pröll, Caesar Pröll or Pröllism – no matter what you call this system in Lower Austria, one thing is certain: ==References== March is the date on which this system must finally be chosen in Lower Austria in order to get the Caesar Pröll and all his vassals responsible for what has been set up in Lower Austria in recent years. There are some examples I would like to cite now. The first is also the content of the urgent request of the Greens. Today we have Casino Pröll, speculation losses in billions. Mrs Schittenhelm! You can try again to turn the medal straight. The fact is, and the Court of Auditors has also noted in mid-2010, that with the closure of accounts, 31. This year a loss of € 1 billion has occurred. You can now tell us what you want, that's fact. Go to the Court of Auditors and complain! That was a real report. That's what was found. [[Call to the ÖVP:You have to report to the Court of Auditors!]] Mr. Landeshuptmann Pröll and finance councillor Sobotka have, in the truest sense of the word, converted the financial administration into a casino in Lower Austria. I would like to raise that again. What happened in 2001? – At the time, housing loans amounted to € 4.7 billion as a guarantee for a €2.5 billion loan and invested in 40 percent share of shares and 60 percent of the loan share. In 2002, there were strong losses. Strong losses have occurred. You can't discuss that either. That is why we have tried to compensate for these losses over even more windy financial products and hedge funds. The fact is: In fact, it did not succeed. The damage has been continuously and continuously increased. From 2003 to today, additional billions have been loosened by further grips on the federal assets of the Federal State of Lower Austria, namely, €3.2 billion. They were also fed to this casino. You can now calculate after Adam Ries, which has already been invested in billions in this casino. I already said it, I say it again: Annual accounts 31.12.2008 – identified by the Court of Auditors in mid-2010 – a loss of € 1 billion has occurred. [[Call to the ÖVP:We now have 2013 and not 2010!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The summary of this Casino-Capitalism of the Pröll brand in Lower Austria would have been: If the head of state Pröll with Sobotka – also said today, a music school director – had not speculated so unhindered, then we would not have to complain of these billion losses in the state of Lower Austria. I say it quite openly: If you play with the guys out of Wall Street, you don't have to wonder when such a debacle comes out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'd like to quote a few more scumbags from the Pröll system. A national bank, the Hypo NOE: I don't have to do that, as I think, either. Justice is being determined, and financial market supervision is also of the opinion that some things have not been done. By the way, it is also identified against some existing EIA politicians. The Skylink Debakel at Schwechat Airport, where the country of Lower Austria is majority-owned: Construction costs have grown to € 500 million. Then Mr. Pröll sent his former intimus Ernest Gabmann junior – no, not junior – to another party – to the Board of Directors of the State Ernest Gabmann. We have an inconsistible debt development in the country of Lower Austria, where state captain Pröll managed to increase the debt of €500 million in 20 years – half a billion euros – to € 7 billion. You can't discuss that either. An incredible cultural policy that is taking place in the country of Lower Austria: In this case, Mr. Landeshuptmann allows a statue of Mary to be in real shame in the country house and that the bulk artist Nitsch is piled up with millions of funding. – What did he accomplish with it? The left-wing schickeria echoes applause in the current country election campaign. Here a high price was paid by the head of state. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ernst Strasser-Corruption scandal, which ultimately moves into the ÖVP Lower Austria: I know you don't want to know anything about Ernst Strasser anymore. But you know very well that he was the political leader of Pröll, he was the State Party Secretary there and he was also Clubobmann of the ÖVP Lower Austria. You can't discuss that either. And finally, Mr. Landeshuptmann in Lower Austria has a security and asylum emergency where he is responsible for pure show policy. He has recently bought old customs stations, which are not occupied by the wayside, and he wants to warn the Lower Austrians that now security is getting better. It's all air and fraud if you can put it that way. This is finally to be stopped. Ladies and gentlemen! It is high time that we finally live up to the home again, that we finally bring in politics with our house mind again. The FPÖ Lower Austria, under our top candidate Barbara Rosenkranz, has begun to select Absolutism, these Absoluteists Pröll in Lower Austria and finally bring back values, strengthen our families, also secure the borders so that we can finally become lord of crime in our beautiful federal state.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12036	Mr Höbart, for the qualification of Mrs Schittenhelm's speech as a 'fathom', I give you a call for order. [[Abg. Strache: He apologized anyway!]] You didn't succeed in the tried rescue or relevation, I have to say. The next speaker is Mr Petzner. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12074	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the first place, it may be necessary not only to highlight how Mr Pröll operates financially in Lower Austria, but also how he works politically. This is also important to explain, because many Lower Austrians are certainly watching today. [[Abg. Höfinger: In Carinthia there are also elections!]] Mr Pröll always pursues the strategy that he acts as if criticism of the head of state were as if criticism of the states in Lower Austria and in the ÖVP was a direct attack on the federal state itself and on the Lower Austrians themselves. I would like to make it clear that this is not the case. The Lower Austrians and the Lower Austrians are diligent, capable and decent people. And because they are, they deserve better political conditions, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Lower Austrians, if you would like to do a favor to your federal country, your beautiful home, which I like very much, then please ensure that country captain Erwin Pröll and the Austrian People's Party on 3rd September. In March, the absolute majority in Lower Austria was lost. Then you have done a great service to your country. That is what I would like to say at this point and I would also like to justify the content. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Why would it be so important for the Federal State of Lower Austria that the Erwin Pröll and the ÖVP lose the absolute majority? – That is why, in particular, these whole figures, which have now been mentioned, show that there is a massive lack of transparency and control in this federal state. If there were more transparency in Lower Austria and if there had been more control by a functioning opposition, then a lot of tax money could have been saved, ladies and gentlemen. That's why it's so important that this head of state Erwin Pröll on 3 March. In March, the majority of the members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and He always says we need clear conditions. He always pretends that in Lower Austria the chaos would break out, he would lose the Absolute. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The truth is, Mr President, the financial chaos has long broken out in Lower Austria. You can see that when you look at the numbers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Again: For this, the people of Lower Austria cannot do anything, but this lies in the political responsibility of the head of state and his national party. [[Abg. Hörl: Compare Lower Austria and Carinthia!]] Yes, we compare Lower Austria with Carinthia, Mr. Collegue from Tyrol. Who has the highest debt of all the federal states? Who has the highest indebtedness of all the federal states when calculating municipal and national debt together? – Lower Austria! Lower Austria has the highest indebtedness of all federal states. That is the balance sheet of Erwin Pröll. Lower Austria has speculated at least one billion euros of housing funds – by Mr Pröll. Lower Austria has one of the highest unemployment rates – by Mr Erwin Pröll. Lower Austria has received liabilities of over 10 billion – by Mr Erwin Pröll. And over the past few years, Lower Austria has put on the table catastrophic figures for all the indicators of whether the economic indicators are whether this is the labour market or whether it is employment. That is to say, this flowering land and these flowering meadows, which the Lord Pröll always tries to draw, are simply not available. The naked numbers speak a completely different language. I would like to say that I can also say that some newspapers and some media are also more critical of these low-Austrian states. Because one thing I can say: No other head of state could afford what Pröll had already done in Lower Austria. Every other head of state should have resigned for a long time, only he is still in office. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I can remind you of how you cried out about Carinthia, how Mr. Neffe, Josef Pröll, padded when it came to Carinthia. And if you compare the numbers of Lower Austria and Carinthia, you can see that Lower Austria does not need to get excited at Carinthia at all, but, above all, by 2008 under Jörg Haider, Carinthia has gone a better, more decent and a more correct way, ladies and gentlemen. This also shows all the numbers. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] That it has been in Carinthia since 2008, since the FPK regime with Scheuch and the Marionette Dörfler took over the leadership, that is also right, but also the Carinthians can't do anything for it. The Carinthians are also diligent, capable and decent people. They can't believe that their political leadership, the FPK, has failed and has managed the country down. [[Abg. Krainer: Who made the election campaign for corrupt politics?]] Since the Carinthias and Carinthias are well-known, decent people, you can rely on them as I am – I am quite, quite sure – that not only the Lower Austrians and Lower Austrians on 3rd. ==References====External links== On 3 March, the Carinthias and Carinthias of this FPK policy on corruption, mismanagement and waste will also give a clear rejection, so that they will not later than 3. ==References====External links==* Official website
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12170	Mr Petzner, for the multiple claim that the whole party, the FPK, is “corrupt”, I give you a call for order. We have always adhered to the principles here that there should be a general sentence condemnation, claim or evasion of a whole party with a call for order. This applies to all parties, even if the FPK is concerned. The next speaker was Mr Ing. Lugar. 10 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12202	Mr President. High house! Yes, Mr Petzner, it is always gratifying to maintain values such as transparency. These are our values, too. I think this is very, very good. If you say here that some things are going wrong in Lower Austria, and at least two thirds of your speech is dedicated to Lower Austria, then I find it a bit strange why your party in Lower Austria does not join. If you already say that it would be important to finally push Mr Pröll off the throne, it would be very useful, from my point of view, if you were to join us in Lower Austria to move something together. That's the point. That is, if you are already suggesting that there is no transparency in Lower Austria, you could have done something for it. That's what I'm talking about. Yes, we need a ban on speculation, and I originally welcomed the fact that a few weeks ago, Mrs Fekter, Minister of Finance, urged a ban on speculation. Very, very good. Unfortunately, then, we have to note that the Minister of Finance does not mean too honest with her ban on speculation. Finally, it was a game of calm for the people who are quite rightly concerned about whether their tax money is being played in various financial casinos, whether in Salzburg or in Lower Austria. People have actually been worried. And Mrs. Fekter has distributed here a sedative play, which, in the end, cannot work. But why can't this sedative play? – If countries don't give the biggest applause to countries, then this speculation ban can't even be worth the paper on which it is written. And if, in addition, the Court of Auditors notes that this ban on speculation is of no value, and the Minister has tried again today to spread sand into our eyes, and expects us to adopt a law here, which is ultimately not even worth the paper on which it is just to calm the public, then we can see who is drawing the threads here. And finally, it is Erwin Pröll, who simply wants to continue in Lower Austria as before. That's what it's all about. In his absoluteistic claim to power, Erwin Pröll is concerned with simply continuing as before. This is the claim, especially if one knows Mr Pröll and knows how he operates in Lower Austria, and if one knows in addition how he has his fingers in play everywhere and thus leaves no one out of responsibility when it comes to supporting his own party. There is now the case of a People's Committee where artists from Lower Austria are forced to join. That is, someone comes from the Erwin and exerts pressure on the people by saying that if they are not in the process and are in favour of winning, disadvantages are to be expected as to whether this concerns the engagement or various other things. [[Abg. Amon: Who is this?]] [[Abg. Hornek: I never said that!]] You may not have said it, but there are very, very many who complain. And since they naturally exercise power in Lower Austria, absoluteistically, not many trust in the curtain. But that will change, and that will change as soon as we manage to break the absolute majority in Lower Austria, because then finally transparency will come and then we can look at what he has done in the past. From the debt to the liabilities at the Hypo NOE, which are very dubios, to the billions that have been spent here on tax money, all this has to be transparent. And we can only do that if we break the absolute majority, the absolute majority of Erwin Pröll, and if one comes and – I say – offers assistance. Frank Stronach came and reached Erwin Pröll's hand. He told him that we want transparency, we put independent experts at our expense, and they look at what went wrong in Lower Austria. And some things went wrong. The Court of Auditors has noticed some things that have gone wrong there, whether they are the debts, whether they are speculations, whether they are also hypo charges or hypo arrests. And this is where Frank Stro- has reached out. And what's the Erwin Pröll doing? – Instead of taking this hand and saying, thank you, we want transparency, we have nothing to hide, everything is covered. Frank Stronach is diffamated, defiled and attacked by the media with all the power available in Lower Austria. This is exactly the procedure in Lower Austria, which you always choose, whenever you take away what he loves most, namely, the power. Erwin is an absolute man of power. If you see how Mr. Strasser, a close confidant of Erwin, acted with the police, you know that the ÖVP has only one purpose in Lower Austria. There is a statement from Mr Pröll, who has been behind for a few years: If the ÖVP is good, the country is fine. This is what ÖVP thinks in Lower Austria: If the ÖVP is good, the country is fine. That's the point. That is, one connects here the fate of an entire federal state with the well-being of a party. That is exactly the problem we have in Lower Austria. That is, we must free Lower Austria from the catches of the ÖVP and give it back to people. That's exactly what it's all about. We have to give it back to people. The Lower Austrians deserved this. And above all, they deserve one thing, and this is transparency. In Lower Austria we are dealing with the following: Erwin Pröll talks well about someone when he's useful to him. If he hurts him, he'll suddenly have all kinds of reservations. There is an original statement by Erwin Pröll – that's not so long ago – where, after he infected Frank Stronach, he said that one should rename the industrial quarter to Stronach-Viertel. Pröll was full of praise, Frank Stronach called it a great entrepreneur, a great visionary, a man worthy of Lower Austria. And a few years later, just because he's running against him, he's suddenly the most terrible person and is defamed to the most intervening. That's the system Pröll. This is the system where it is only about staying in power as far as possible. And in the end, the Lower Austrians didn't deserve it, no one deserved it. One can also see that Erwin Pröll is also ruling in the Federal Government. One simply sees this Constitutional Law on the prohibition of speculation, which is to come here, that Erwin Pröll extends his hand and governs it accordingly, just as he did at the time when it was about the law of the teacher's service when it came to changing in the hospital area. Erwin Pröll put in his veto everywhere. Mr Spindelegger is not the chairman of your party, but Mr Spindelegger is the delegate of Mr Pröll and has the pleasure of doing what Mr Pröll says. [[Abg. Hornek: How is the Lord Lugar and the Lord Stronach?]] That's how it works in the ÖVP. And in fact, no one has deserved it, the Lower Austrians have not at all. We now have a unique opportunity, we now have the opportunity to finally free Lower Austria from a party that sees this country as its own inheritance lease. Frank Stronach is ready to reach out here and bring in his knowledge and experience. And from my point of view, Mr Pröll would be well advised to take this hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12271	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12293	Mr President. I am sorry that you now have to represent Mrs Fekter, although you may feel different from her regarding the subject matter of Lower Austria, which concerns speculation. I also understand why Mrs Fekter now shines and shines away. [[Abg. May. Kogler: She's sitting in the coffee house over there!]] She is a Upper Austrian and is probably personally very difficult to keep the bar here to a Lower Austrian head of state, where on the other hand in Upper Austria the housing funds have been handled completely differently. Although loans have also been sold, they have not been speculated, they have not been converted into hedge funds, they have not been placed on the market in London, so to speak. Fekter's gone. A chance for you, Mr State Secretary, perhaps you can now answer the key question before which Mrs Fekter expressed himself, namely: Can you, Mr State Secretary, rule out the fact that, in future, by this ban on speculation at the federal level and by this Article 15a agreement, such operations as in Lower Austria are repeated? Perhaps you are so kind and give us an answer to this key question. That would be really interesting. Then at least you might still have something to do with your own performance. Ladies and gentlemen from Lower Austria, I can only understand your enthusiasm for this federal state. You don't forget one thing: The state is not the head of state! This fine differentiation would have to be shown. That is why it is also essential to take up the words of Mrs Fekter – I quote from my comments – and to transfer these words of Mrs Fekter to the problem of speculation housing funds. Fekter, today at about 13.25: Tax money is too valuable to be speculated. – Yes, Mrs Minister, housing funds are too valuable to be thrown to half and speculated to the other half. That's perfectly true! Mrs Fekter also said: We need more transparency, more transparency in the financial performance of each country. - Then she'll do it at last! We're ready to help her. We'll give her the majority. She just has to do it! A uniform accounting system, double accounting, clear balance sheet rules, declaration of assets, declaration of losses – immediately, Mrs. Minister, more transparency, immediately possible! More strategic planning is also possible, no question! You have pleaded for this – I am now speaking to the non-present, with the absent Minister – and you have pleaded for it, we are immediately for it. Strategic planning at last also with the housing funds! It was then in 2001 and then later on financial compensation in 2008 that the railway really was set free for what the Minister of Finance condemned today at 13.25 a.m., the train was set free for – as she said – “hole up/hole to policy”. At the national level, we unfortunately have a “hole on, hole to policy” with the means of housing, whose purpose has been abolished. Residential funds are used in the countries to finance other areas, in particular the return flows from the outstanding loans, whether sold or not. This is an alienation from the purpose of all taxpayers/payers in the form of these housing contributions, a complete alienation of purpose! Mrs. Minister – I say again in her absence – you finally end up with this abuse, which is called “hole-to-hole” at the national level! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Fekter's mouth also came out today: No more risk money! - Yeah, let's do that, right away! I immediately submit a request to prevent the housing funds from finding the way to risky speculation in the future, whether in London, Singapore or elsewhere in the Cayman Islands. [[Quoted print version removed]] This is our approach, and we do not stand by ourselves. We stand shoulder to shoulder with the people in the Austrian Chambers of Commerce, whether in Lower Austria or in Upper Austria or in Vienna. Everyone again demands more funds for housing. There we stand shoulder to shoulder with the WIFO, the economic promotion institute. The expert, Dr. Czerny, has repeatedly criticized the fact that we have a misconception of new building apartments that it is price-effective that young families often cannot afford living anymore. We again need the commitment of purpose to ensure that adequate housing is carried out and that people are able to return to cheap homes, even in Lower Austria, because the problem is particularly great there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Our urgents have also mentioned this in detail in the facts. For this purpose we also stand shoulder to shoulder with the Bau-Holz union. We often have events, and it also comes from this corner the demand: Give us the housing promotion money again! I don't know anything about that at all in the National Council! They do not represent the interests of the economy. You do not represent the interests of trade unions that demand more jobs, you do not represent the interests of young families – no, you represent the interests of speculators with or without heads of state! I mean, that's a real misbehavior. That's why: Voices Let us ask you to do this. Finally, one essential aspect: We need the housing funds for the renovation, for the thermal renovation of the buildings, so that we can finally reach the recovery rates in all your government programmes. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly! Rehabilitating instead of speculating!]] That's totally paradox! You write 3 percent rehabilitation rate in your government programs hi-no. And what do we have? – 1 percent! Why do we only have one percent? – Because the funds are used to speculate instead of to clean up. That's the problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes! Bravo!]] That's why you really end up with this "hole, hole to policy", with this waste, with this alienation – I say now – of the housing funds! At the next financial compensation, take it back to the next budget accompanying laws where they belong! The fact that the pendulum in Lower Austria is, I hope, a different one, perhaps gives my interlocutor, Mr Otto Pendl. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12404	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12484	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. 5 minutes are set. [[Abg. Brosz: Business treatment!]] A word on the Rules of Procedure: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12519	Mr President. Since I do not believe that the cafeteria is large enough that all Members can go there to obtain the presence of the Minister of Finance, I am submitting the request in accordance with § 18 of the Rules of Procedure to attract the Minister of Finance to this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12546	An application for quotation of the Minister of Finance was made. Mr Klubobmann spoke on behalf of the ÖVP. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12574	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Brosz, it is, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure your right to make this request and to address this request to the House, but perhaps it would have been quite interesting to explain to us why you are making this request. [[Abg. Oellinger: Thank you!]] The Minister has in her cabinet a Secretary of State, who is of course entitled to represent her here in the House. It has answered the questions addressed to them and has also given a detailed opinion on all these issues. So I have to tell you, this is a very arbitrary request that can be justified by nothing. They seem to be having fun using the High House to play any games. The whole thing is too bad for that. Again: State Secretarys represent the members of the government, among other things, also in this House. This is perfectly right, so the request is such a superfluous thing as anything.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12610	I now have a Rules of Procedure tabled by Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12635	Mr President. Like Mr Brosz, I believe that Mrs Finanzminister should be present in this important debate on this urgent question until the end. There has also been an application on which there is still a vote. It is not enough that only the questions that have been answered in part have been answered. We are in line with the Greens' request.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12662	A further speech on the Rules of Procedure was made by Mr Klubobmann Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12686	So I have to say that this is a fundamental disregard – and it is already here – a fundamental disregard for the function of a State Secretary or a State Secretary. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter is just entering the meeting room]] I believe that this is not acceptable; not only because State Secretary is close to our party's arbitrators or is a member of our party, but because, as I believe, it is a matter of accepting this order that a State Secretary is empowered to take over the representation of a minister legally in debates also on a urgent question. That is why, I think, this is actually a rather strange request. We don't understand at all. By the way, he is already obsolant anyway, so I would fully agree with the words of Mr Klubobmann's head. [[Abg. Brosz confirms this by means of a corresponding hand movement]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12726	Mr Brosz, can I interpret your hand movement in such a way that you withdraw the request because you have already been successful? – Very well, then we don’t have to vote on it. [[Abg. Brosz nodds.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. 5 minutes of speaking time are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12757	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is always so in the run-up to elections, i.e. country elections, that we discuss a very wide range of topics, especially when it comes to urgent matters. Let me begin with two or three comments. Mrs Schittenhelm, first of all we can read, and I also have the speech here that you gave in the country day at that time. Mr. Stefan Petzner – he is also not present – has forgotten that at the time he was the election and advertising manager of those whom he had just torn. I would particularly like to say to the colleagues of the FPÖ – and with this I am already with the Greens – that in 2001 under a black and blue federal government – I am not taking it out – it should not have been decided that the commitment of purpose falls. But that's the purest child-bearing thing that's going on. At that time, you've split up, you've already got the next split – and no one wants to know anything about it anymore. The fact is that this was decided under the Federal Government at the time, and that was the cornerstone of the fact that the following points could be decided at all. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today we are of course very different from the situation and those procedures that we have assessed ten or twelve years ago. But, colleague stupidly, now we have known each other for a very long time, and with all the love for my federal state as well: If you want to get there, take a loan and know, you have to earn at least 5 percent so that you can use the loan, then all possible people can tell you something that we might believe – it just doesn't get better, because the numbers, no matter what – and you know that just as well as I do – how to represent them, even if we say that has been invested there and there are quite different! The fact is that one should simply leave such preoccupations – speculations, if one wants to do so – in the public sector, especially since we have come up with them in many areas, the spirit of time was such that one has tried so many things. By the way, an institution, an institution of this house, is always very bashful. I invite you to read what was formulated by this institution years ago: Money must work in a wide range of areas, including the local authorities. This went down to the distributions. You just need to look and you know exactly, the zeitgeist has overtaken all this, all the cases it has given. That is why we are making a very different assessment today. It is good and right that we implement the ban on speculation, because I simply say – and I hope we agree – that we will be allowed to become at some point. This is not a question at all, it is about citizens and the tax money, that is theirs. However, I would like to say to Mr Strache, because he took the city of Vienna so loosely in a wash: The control office of the city of Vienna has already published in 2009 – you know everything, you have already read yourself – that the cross-border treaties of the city of Vienna and the Vienna lines were clearly in the interest of the citizens and have provided €100 million for the people of the city and that either the city of Vienna or the Vienna lines were always owners. You all know that, and it does not matter if we now make this urgent request, in which it concerns the presumption of housing. Building money from Lower Austria goes, discuss it, so passant, according to the motto, the game with red-green in Vienna we take right away in a wash-up! I just wanted to say this in the middle of the good order. However, because this is a need for me, I would also like to recall the individual decisions on the claims in the Lower Austrian Landtag. First Decision, 2001. – You know that FPÖ voted in favour. However, I am also saying the good order about the sales proceeds of the country's participation, and the Greens have also voted in favour of it. So we are trying to discuss these so important topics for our home country in an objective way, despite the campaign for elections! Dear günter stupid, it's like this, we know what we should have earned in percentages, so that it would have become a business. I think yesterday the head of state said something, perhaps sometime in the next ten years. I wish all the high returns – you laugh, Hans, it is – but we would be well advised – and I believe that Mrs Finanzminister or the Federal Government is on the best way to bring a speculation ban on the journey. [[in the direction of the Abg. Wheeler]] I believe that then we will be able to distance ourselves from it in the individual areas of the local authorities. Then, I think, we have not only learned from the history of recent years, but have also responded accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12827	As the next speaker, I should like to speak to the honourable Member. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e12849	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this was a very factual view of my previous speaker – that was not always the case in this debate – only the words of thanks to the head of state of Lower Austria have I missed, Mr Pendl! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If, in the course of the discussion, we have heard from the various Taferls and statements that the background of this urgent question is the coming country election campaign in Lower Austria, where the election took place on 3 March. March will take place, we have seen in the remarks that most parties have a major problem with the absolute majority of the Austrian People's Party in the Lower Austrian Landtag. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out: This is not a majority that any party has given itself, but a majority that has come about through democratic elections five years ago! They are not allowed to agree on the intelligence of the electorate at the time, because they have made their cross in this place for good reason. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, it is often complained that due to this absolute majority there is no transparency that there is no insight into rivers and developments. On the other hand, you tell us exactly where the money is missing everywhere and where we speculated. - How's that going? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have not only here through the Court of Auditors, but also in the country's events we have many means of control which are not related to the political majority. That's why you shouldn't lead people behind the light. If you don't have any other topics, let's talk about the charges of the housing funds in Lower Austria, we'll talk about the over €800 million profit, and we'll talk about what you're doing in our country! If these charges were all speculated and gone, how could we finance home support, home renovation, housing aid, safe housing, well-kept housing and low-Austrian housing aid? How would that work? Ask They were able to create thousands of families in our country, who were able to buy apartments, liverooms and create homes! Ask them, please trust at least in election times to the people and talk to them, and I guarantee you get a positive answer, because in Lower Austria every promotion is paid exactly until the last cent! In Lower Austria, political personalities are responsible for not only saying what they think but also doing what they say. As a politician, we can finally see this assessed in the confidence that the population brings to us, and the confidence index of the head of state Dr. Erwin Pröll is a very high. Therefore, you are now especially trying to spread sand to people, because otherwise you have no topics. Social protection: We put over 2 billion in the 27 hospitals, which by the way are merged into a hospital association. Lower Austria is one of the first federal states to do this. We have achieved millions of savings through joint management and joint purchasing. – This too is a positive example. We have abolished the Regress, for we cannot take care of their property for their property, for their wealth, for their savings, and still burden them in emergency situations. We need to support and not burden the families, and above all we must not go ahead with them. I do not think that these green rechiebertricks, which you have thought of in illustrative Vienna coffeehouse rounds, come out in Lower Austria. They should deal with topics again. Mrs Glawischnig – she is, unfortunately, leaving the hall – what about environmental policy, because that was once again a key issue for your party? – There is also a view over the blue-yellow borders, beyond Vienna: Two National Parks, 23 Nature Parks, a Biosphere Park and 68 Nature Reserves, should give you a small overview of what is happening only in the environmental sector in our federal state. [[Abg. May. Kogler: A casino is not a nature park!]] [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: This has nothing to do with speculation!]] Nine out of ten sockets bring green electricity. This blue-yellow energy movement has set foot in our country, which is positive policy. Go out and tell people, because these are the topics they move. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: He reads the shopping list from Mercury!]] I guarantee you, no one Lower Austrian and no one Lower Austrian will take anything from your numbering games. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... Speculators in the zoo or where?]] Make a policy for the people! ==References====External links== March for the next five years to choose their representation in the country day, to elect personalities who will also speak. [[Abg. May. Kogler: On the matter!]] Do not underestimate the intelligence of voters! They were no less intelligent than they are today five years ago. I mean, this state has earned this leadership! [[Abg. Brosz: Is Now “Bunty Hour ”?]] The citizens know exactly who has done the work in the last five years and will not come to the attention of those who have only been crawling out of their hiding places two weeks before the election. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You want to hide the speculation losses!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e13001	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e13033	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Well, now you've been crawled out of the hiding places – for God's sake! Only, in some ÖVP newspapers you won't read anything from the criticism. And as far as ÖVP newspapers in Lower Austria are concerned, one can be a bit more generous, since in the text of the text, not only ÖVP must be in it so that it is a party newspaper. But: “Pröll-Land” has fallen. Where else is there something like this in Austria? – There is a red Vienna, but is there already a Burgstaller-Salzburg or a Dörfler-Kärnten or a Platter-Tyrol? [[Call the ÖVP:Haider country!]] How far has one come? – Ah, you welcome the Haider country? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] All right, thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Example!]] The ÖVP likes what Jörg Haider did in Carinthia. This will certainly have an impact on the percentages of the ÖVP in the country election campaign, with the tenths still awake. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] People are now talking about the Pröll country. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] “ÖVP” is no longer present. You don't even dare write that on the election poster, because there is a prince of the state. I am allowed to quote Grillparzer, “King Ottokar’s Happiness and End”: “It’s a good country, probably worth a prince’s defeat!” Grill parsons did not say: it is worth the fact that a prince makes himself subject to this country and keeps everyone in serenity. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Kaufmann-Bruckberger.]] It is, of course, a certain problem if democratic structures were only very short in a country like Lower Austria. Let's think back in history: 1918/1919 Monarchy, then democracy, then from the state of Trophascism, then National Socialism, then the liberation from the National Socialism with Russian occupation and then, after this liberation from the Russian occupation, in the sign of the Gibelkreuz and the ÖVP, the further... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You don't need to say that to post-chacher world champion of the ÖVP in Lower Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If, in Lower Austria, a teacher goes after training as a district school inspector and says she wants to have a job, the district school inspector asks: Have you been to the ÖAAB? Then go there first! And if you say that's not true: I know who I know, from my mother, who is a teacher in Lower Austria. And my mother doesn't lie to me! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There you can cover what you want, there you can even laugh provocatively: It is time for your power to be driven out in Lower Austria! Just as the wine-ter has a kehraus and spring comes, a spring will come in Lower Austria. That means we are with other things: Arrogance and abuse of power. There is actually this Lower Austrian hypo bank, where everything is so wonderful. It even happens that financial market supervision is fined at € 58 million due to malversations. Why this construction? – Because the ugly securities of this Lower Austrian hypo come to a society in Ireland on which Cayman Islands. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] Interestingly, the fund even means “Augustus”. From whom has this been derived, Augustus, who is the Augustus in Lower Austria? – I can tell you: It's Erwin Pröll, who said yesterday: I'm not a bank director, I'm a head of state! And this head of state then puts a confidant in this bank as a Supervisory Board. So that this newly founded society can even buy these scrap papers, the hypo even lends the credit for it. And for that, it held the punishment. She's not yet legal, but she'll be. In this respect there is silence in the forest. Then you just put a trusted person of Pröll in there as a Supervisory Board. And what did he say yesterday? – Yes, I am as Supervisory Board there, from Lower Austria, but I am not allowed to say anything about what is happening there. I'm not allowed to say anything, because there's silence. – Yes, we need such control bodies for the possession of the country, which then, if the citizen or if the political competitor asks what it is, say: There's silence in the office! Such Supervisory Boards à la Klubobmann We don't need snowbergers anymore! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I hear across the country, in all discussions, that the ÖVP says – even colleague stupidly said it – how important clear conditions are. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Clear conditions are important because, if there are no clear conditions, nothing goes further, just as in this Federal Government, which we currently have, where two equally strong partners are inside, then there is a standstill. Mr. Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger! Mrs Federal Minister Fekter! We hear from ÖVP Niederösterreich that there is nothing going on in this Federal Government with the participation of the ÖVP? I assume that the Lower Austrian Members will therefore support our request for early elections, but another thing is not possible, can not happen if this federal government is so bad and fails to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Something else beautiful: In Fasching, the ÖVP wrote on a train with Mr. Landeshauptmann's deputy Sobotka, who, out of obedience to the party, even now boldly beats the head of state, – they were dressed as employees of the waste disposal: “We clean up”. That was the slogan on the train! Yes, please, what do you want to clean up the ÖVP? Your own 20-year-old Erwin Pröll trash? - What's happening here is a joke. And I could continue this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have seen something in the corruption committee: Lower Austria, the ÖVP Niederösterreich system, from Ernst Strasser to Michael Fischer, who makes the “Club of the Lower Austrians” that organizes the hunting club. It is still so beautiful, even in this praise to Austria: “The dark forest full of hunting lust crowns the whole.” – Well, our Raiffeisen general Konrad, the former head of state hunter, they said it, the “Club of the Lower Austrians” and the hunting club, where at one time only more good blacks can be. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tadler.]] We have said this quite precisely in the Committee of Inquiry: The ÖVP system is actually the ÖVP Lower Austria system. Ernst Strasser at the top – and where he has learned, we know that too!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e13169	Mr Rosenkranz, on a word. I am now going to let the protocol come to me, because I have somehow heard it so that you have said that in the last century there has been only a democratic time until today in Lower Austria, between 1918 and 1933, and in addition have been transferred to the State of Stand, National Socialism and to the Russian occupation and then in a word. If this has actually fallen like that – and I'm going to look at it – then that's not acceptable, I say at this point. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Mr President, it has been so much fun!]] Yeah, then I don't need to have the stenographic protocol come in extra. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: No!]] We save a lot of work on the Stenographical Protocol and we can do it today: For this comparison, which is unacceptable, I give you a call for order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: For the protocol: Behavioural applause!]] The next speaker was Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e13238	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! The final words of my previous speaker should give us thought, make us thinkable. If one speaks of the system ÖVP, of the system Ernst Strasser, one sees that the headline in this urgent request “Das Casino,Erwin Pröll” that the words “Casino Niederösterreich”, “Casino Tirol” are correct. We need to be aware that people can no longer afford the rents, that people can no longer afford to heat themselves, that people really have the biggest problems in fighting daily life – the whole thing in real wages falling. That's why I have to say: What we hear from the ÖVP delegates is really hair-throwing. In December, President-in-Office of the Council, Dr. Moser, in connection with these speculations, said to all of us that the alarm bells have been ringing since 2008! Now it will really be the duty and task of every Member of Parliament, including the task of this Federal Government, this Minister of Finance, to carry out these bells and to ensure that appropriate conditions are made and implemented. Because it is not decent – no one understands this – that municipalities, countries, the federal government must earn money that taxpayers must earn in the sweat of his performance, his work must first earn. I don't know how to feel there as a Minister of Finance, as a Federal Minister. If one has heard the great words the woman ministers found at the beginning of Salzburg has, and then these weak acts, which today's withdrawaler sees, one really has to ask: Who do you represent, Mrs Bundesminister, is it the ÖVP-Pfründe or is it the well-being of the taxpayer and the taxpayer? Let's see what you're doing today. Where are the consequences in Lower Austria? Where are there consequences in Tyrol? – In Tyrol, the Landes-Hypothekenbank is engulfing hundreds of millions, and the TIWAG is taking money from the taxpayer and paying back to the mortgage hundreds of millions – money that the Tyroleans so urgently need. Mrs. Finanzminister, who are you representing? . Especially today, where we know that an average apartment is rented in Innsbruck with an average of €13 per square meter, you only represent the Caesars, like a Mr. Platter and a Mr. Pröll in Lower Austria. Mrs Bundesminister, this policy is not understood by the taxpayer! The taxpayer feels that this is enormously unfair, as an alienation of purpose, if you continue to allow the municipalities, the countries, the federal government to gobble with tax money. This should be forbidden once and for all. We from the BZÖ have indeed made many applications for a long time in order to finally end this devastation of popular wealth. No one understands. The taxpayer doesn't understand. Mrs Finanzminister, it is not a matter of the state-owned companies – as is the state of Tirol – that TIWAG, a public electricity company, the entire water, sells all the power plants – and always financially – in overseas financial sharks, and that the whole process cannot be examined by the Court of Auditors, the National Court of Auditors or anyone else. And then you answer these questions so lapidar, they don't really answer them. Mrs Bundesminister, this is the wrong way! Sage Give us the following: Who do you represent, the American financial shark or the Tyrolean taxpayer? Who do you represent here? This is really a fundamental question, Mrs Bundesminister: Who do you represent, represent the cross-border business of some country companies or the citizen? Mrs Bundesminister, you will laugh and will continue to laugh, but: If, in such a rich country as Tyrol, the deportation is increasing in districts and this only bears the manuscript of the ÖVP, then you would have to get more coined. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] As we have heard this morning, we pay €300 million more to Brussels every year because of your performance, the performance of your federal government. €300 million! And as a thank you for this, the discount is reduced, the rural area is dried out. Again, thousands of farmers will stay on the track – and you laugh at it. The ÖVP smiles at that. That's the wrong way! Mrs Bundesminister, finally take the Court of Auditors seriously! No one says you have to take the Greens or any opposition party seriously, but take the Court seriously! Do not allow public finances to continue to be veiled! Let's bring light into the dark, and let's end the casinos once and for all, as they exist in Tyrol and Lower Austria. It is sad and significant when a urgent question is put here in the House: Let’s end the casino “Erwin Pröll”! – I can only say one thing: Mrs. Minister, think about it! Because it's really the time when the taxpayer pulls the hat line. It is not to be seen that you continue to defend the grain and do not care about the concerns and needs of our people!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e13316	As another speaker Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e13338	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Perhaps the Green Mr Kogler will be able to judge, but Amstetten has not speculated. This was not the city of Amstetten, as was previously said in an intermediate call. Just to make this clear. [[Abg. Brosz: He confused it with St. Valentin! It's not that far away!]] Secondly, I would like to congratulate Mr Schmeilenschlager on his speech – with quotation marks – because his speech has once again shown me impressively why in Lower Austria it is time to select the absolute majority of the ÖVP: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have a problem with the absolute majority of the EIAs, but I have the impression that the EIA itself has a problem with the absolute majority because it cannot deal with the power given to it. They confuse the word “power ” and“ do ” with omnipotence. In Lower Austria, this really shows up, I find, every day, when you go through the country. And it is also particularly evident when you look at how ÖVP Niederösterreich deals with the criticism of speculations with housing funds. In my view, it is really adventurous, as Mr. Landesrat Sobotka and Mr. Landeshauptmann Pröll are still wiping away any criticism, still claiming that there are no losses, but only less profits, as Mr. Landeshauptmann Pröll just said recently. [[Abg. Rädler: Is there any SPÖ in Lower Austria?]] And the Court of Auditors' criticism, which is known to all of us and many people, is simply done with the sentence: A Court of Auditors too can be mistaken! I think this is really very ignorant, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. I think this is very pre-potent, and in my opinion it is a missing interpretation of power. I have a different view of making policy. [[Abg. Rädler: Where's Sepp Leitner?]] And I think that the ÖVP would be well advised to listen inside again and to see whether other people should not be justified in criticizing, also attaching and also attaching. I have been wondering for a long time whether Lower Austria, just as the ÖVP claims, has actually set only a goal that is too ambitious and has not achieved the high goals or whether there have actually been losses, as all around it already testify. If you look at how housing loans have been set up, even with the objective that was agreed at the time, namely to make at least 5 per cent return, so that the business is actually a profit, and now see that these 5 per cent have not been achieved in any single year since 2002, then even the smallest one in our country is clear and should also be understood by a finance councillor Sobotka, that there has then been losses, Mr. von der ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] At the beginning, it was also stated – and this is also known by the colleagues of the ÖVP, including the ÖVP Lower Austria – that the division of expenditure is to be 60 : 40. Of course, one can even discuss whether to install housing funds. The FIBEG, which is the own-founded society in Lower Austria, has already set up the funds in very risky shops in 2003. And that's why these losses are up to 1 billion €. These speculation losses, ladies and gentlemen, are calculated from the capital stock, which has actually fallen, and from a small amount of the proceeds. And now the next question is that many people are likely to ask: How do you deal with this? – The ÖVP simply says: Everyone's wrong! The other parties want information. And that alone is in Lower Austria Your Majesty's policy, namely if you ask for information and say that you should perhaps look at these things more closely. That is the difference, I think, in dealing with dissidents from many parties in this Parliament and the ÖVP, especially the ÖVP Lower Austria. And this is a great discomfort for me as a lowlander. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stumpfully said that we should look at the 2012 Court of Auditors report. – Yes, it says that the recommendations have been implemented, but – Mr President, you may be able to listen briefly! It is also stated in the Court of Auditors’ report that “the error of just under one billion euros () was not found by 2008 compared with the country’s long-term result target”. – This should also be taken into account in the Court of Auditors’ report. I now ask myself the question: Why does ÖVP Niederösterreich not want to accept this? [[Abg. Wheeler: Because it's wrong!]] Why don't you want to clarify with other parties? And why do we not all want to prevent such transactions together in the future? It's about taxpayers anyway. It is about the money of our citizens, it is not about the money of the ÖVP Lower Austria. I think we would be well advised to eliminate and improve this mistake, which has been made, for whatever reason. Everything else is not clear, as the ÖVP of Lower Austria puts it, that is not transparency, but it is just for me that I want to continue to hide. That's intrusive. I'll write you a quote in the main book: Those who commit mistakes will probably avoid them in the future, but those who insist on nonsense will continue to make the same mistakes. – Let's avoid it together. But this mistake!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e13423	The next speaker was Mr Herbert. The rest of the Group speaking time is still 3 minutes, I put it in full. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e13445	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the end of this urgent question, the speeches here in plenary have clearly proved: The obvious speculation with housing funds, the much quoted “Casino Erwin Pröll” with the resulting billions of losses, was not a slight financial experiment on the financial market, where a financial Hoppala happened with some losses, but it is quite clear at the end of this discussion that it is a criminal case, in which the conscious concealment of facts and the knowledgeable presupposition in dubious financial operations was deliberately taken into account for the benefit of the Lower Austrian population. [[Abg. Rädler: Now we’re already at “billions”!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a criminal case where, in the light of the Court of Auditors' report, the Court of Auditors is right to determine that, because of the accusations and the resulting concealment mechanisms that have been applied, a judicial investigation is at least necessary. I think this urgent request, this criminal case also shows that there is generally a very self-glorious access of the Pröll-ÖVP in Lower Austria to the legal transactions, to the laws and to the legal bases. It is hardly surprising, therefore, that those who are supposed to take care of the law and order and, as far as possible, actively try to do so, namely our police officers in Lower Austria, do not really provide sufficient support. I have often been accused of an blatant lack of personnel, unoccupied police inspections, despotic services, and inadequate equipment. It is also apparent that this problem, namely the security risk in Lower Austria, which is also demonstrated by the current crime statistics, is further confirmed. Some key data: The education rate fell from 42.8 percent to 41.5 percent, with house and apartment collapses there was an increase of 15 percent and Internet crime – the highlight! – has increased by more than 100 percent. Such crime data must not be surprised when more and more people in our country, namely in our beautiful country of Lower Austria, are losing access to the Sun King Erwin Pröll. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] The much quoted great success in country elections is probably only on the starry sky of the ÖVP. I'll tell you: It is time to finally create new political conditions in Lower Austria and bring an end to the absolute majority of the ÖVP. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e13493	Mr Wittmann is speaking as the last speaker. 2 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e13515	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The fact is, in the 2010 Court of Auditors report, that € 1 billion is missing in Lower Austria. And in the Court of Auditors' report of 5 June 1989. In December 2012, it was found that these billions were still missing. What happened? – €4.4 billion has been charged, a target of 5 percent has been achieved. [[Abg. Rädler: With the consent of SPÖ!]] This has not occurred, on average only 1.8% has been achieved. That is why you are quite simply in arrears of one billion. If the interest payments for the additional loans are calculated on the basis of the 2012 Court of Auditors report, the total loss in Lower Austria is €1.8 billion. And this loss has not been determined by anyone, but by the Court of Auditors! You can't discuss that, it's black on white in a paper. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] The problem is: Although the original decision has already been taken by several parties, it is in it: 60 percent bond investment and 40 percent stock investment. And in your omnipotence, you have gone away from this investment strategy because you have seen that you have losses, and then have invested in highly speculative papers, in shares that are not traded on any stock exchange, in shares that have no rating. What does a Lower Austrian house builder do with a bond in Pakistan? Tell him if he doesn't get any money for building a house! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] He'll be happy if you tell him that his money is in Pakistan. It's beautiful! That's an explanation! And this is the mismanagement of Erwin Pröll. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I'll tell you one thing: Do you know what is meant by the “house construction loan private foundation” as the purpose of the foundation? – “Economic support in the broadest sense of artistic and charitable institutions that are established or at least partly active in the country.” Do you know what I think is the only thing for this? This is the sorcerer Sobotka, who is unable to distinguish creativity in the artistic field from creativity in the financial industry, and unfortunately has managed everything with his magic pieces. In reality, power needs control – and that's what it's supposed to be about. March is happening.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e13578	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, on the reintroduction of the purpose of promoting housing. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[16:08:06]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-02-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00190_d7e13621	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 2210/A and 2211/A(E) were tabled. Questions 14022/J to 14062/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 27 May. The meeting will be convened in writing at 9 a.m. on February 2013. The meeting of the Standing Subcommittee on European Union Affairs will take place in local IV following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
