ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e3620	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 211. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 207 and 208. Meeting of 13. ==References====External links== Meeting of 14. In June 2013, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies are reported as prevented by Donabauer, Gahr, Hörl, Marek, Pack, Ing. Hofer, Linder, Mühlberghuber, Dr. Strutz, Venier, Zanger, Mag. Jarmer, Mag. Musiol, Mag. Treasure, windwood and hagen as well as Riepl. [[09:03:08]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e3654	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[09:03:18]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e3775	The BZÖ Parliamentary Club has, in accordance with § 74a para. 2 by the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Enoughly promised – taxes and fees down! to treat urgently. Call for urgent request will take place at 12 noon. [[09:03:45]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e3799	I would also like to say that the Members of this House are allowed to do so. Steinhauser, Grosz, and Dr. Mr Fichtenbauer requested that the Justice Committee report on the request 17/A of the Deputies Mag. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to amending the Criminal Code, a period of time until 2. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. Given that a urgent request was requested for today's sitting, the short debate will take place following these and then the vote will take place. The meeting will be transferred to ORF 2 from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m. and to ORF III in full length. I am now interrupting the session until 12 noon.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e3846	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[12:00:34]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Josef Bucher, colleague and colleague to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning: Enough promised – taxes and fees down! (2367/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e3882	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 2367/A(E). As this has since been reached by all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author(s). The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e3967	I give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Bucher as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e3989	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason why we have invited to this special meeting today is the current economic situation in Austria. Austria is known to be in a recession. I am on the road myself recently to many companies and also get the difficult situation in the economy, including as regards the situation on the labour market. It is therefore very important to us that we discuss the situation today, since an occasion has also prompted the Federal Government to consider and decide on an economic package. That is why we are giving the Federal Government today the opportunity to discuss this economic package with us. It is very important to us from the BZÖ that we think intensively about how we come out of this economic situation, how we can reduce this record unemployment of over 400 000 in Austria and come back to a recovery, ladies and gentlemen. This is ultimately the task of politics, and we feel obliged to do so. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are numerous company pleas – whether Niedermeyer, or Schlecker or dayli or Alpine – more than 3,000 companies have already had to take the path to the insolvency judge in this year. That's an alarm signal for us. This should actually become aware of everyone and, above all, in the sector of the EIA, lead us to think about how we actually take measures that use those who use the companies and which also lead to more employment. A record unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, of 400 000 people, who are now also listening to this debate at home in front of the television stations, cannot be taken care of. You can't care if people sit at home and feel that the Federal Government does not take any action against it, that the Federal Government does not take any measures that will cause us to come forward in the economy again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] And this financial market and this collapse of many banking systems in Austria, but also at European level, is now leading to a fundamental economic crisis, into a recession – that is, zero growth, that is, shrinking our economy – and it is foreseeable that this will affect all levels of population in the next few months. Many in the economy have so far not felt it, but it is increasingly becoming a problem for all Austrians. Therefore, it is necessary not only to grab the banks under the arms, as you have done from red and black and green in recent months. They have given the shark banks new teeth so that they can bite again powerfully – and that is basically the completely wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[OBJECTIVES]] Then: All European aid packages have failed fundamentally to this day, and no action has really taken. Please explain, Mrs Fekter, to people, how much money, how many billions of euros have been spent by the Austrian taxpayer in aid packages and how little of them actually came from economic aid in Greece, Portugal, Spain or anywhere! People don't feel any of these aid payments. The economy has no benefit either. There are no Marshall plans, no master plans for Greece, for the construction of the economy, but you have just thrown the money behind the banks, the banks that are now holding back the money and are not prepared to include the money in the economic cycle so that the economy can re-establish, create jobs and make investments. You have done exactly the opposite with your actions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] All these aid measures, which have been tied up so far, are basically a crisis term in all southern European countries, lead to more unemployment, lead to a further decline in the economy and have brought nothing but distress and misery. Unemployment has risen everywhere. The hopes have long been buried. And if you talk to the people, no matter where, in the south of Europe, they're actually yelling at the fact that you're telling them how to live, that you give the money only and alone to the banks. And all these measures, Mrs. Finanzminister, this cutback in the northern part of Europe is essentially the result of the fact that we now also have marode roads, tunnels, marode bridges, broken schools and universities. In other words, the investment delay has already affected us. In an article in the last “level” you can read that Germany is struggling with it and Austria is also affected by this fall in investment in public expenditure and therefore also the money is becoming scarce with us and is missing at all corners and ends when it comes to making public investments, as once the communities that are now facing the wall with their backs and do not know how to achieve balanced budgets. In the past, the municipalities were the largest client of this Republic and have made sure that the medium-sized economy also comes up with orders, which are now, of course, in a very difficult situation, as these many company claims prove. No money for research, development, no money for education – we are talking about money in Austria, and this will have a huge negative impact on competitiveness in the next few years. [[Abg. Head: Which country are you talking about?]] Look Once again, you have the competitiveness within OECD countries! Austria was already under the top ten, Mr. Kopf, when we were still in the government. Those were still times! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Head and ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of SPÖ.]] At the time, the “star ” entitled: ‘Austria: The better Germany". There we were among the ten best! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] World Competitiveness Report: Today we're in place 23. We slide further down every year in the rankings, each year we slide further off. We lose competitiveness, attractiveness for foreign investors. Farms are wandering away. Siemens, Mrs. Ederer, has moved farms to low-cost countries. AT&S – do I have to tell you who's behind it?; Mr Androsch – emigrates to low-cost countries. It is becoming increasingly unattractive to set up and invest businesses in Austria, and that is what this OECD study clearly states. The reform stand of the Federal Government, this unwillingness, to turn on the important parking screws so that we can regain attractiveness, is the reason for Austria becoming increasingly unattractive and slipping, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is a nuclear problem, built in Austria, and is the reason why many jobs are lost. It is not just the economy that can be blamed. If the framework conditions in our country do not vote, then the only thing to do is to make the policy responsible, and that is this federal government, ladies and gentlemen, very much! We live in an age with the highest debt in the Second Republic: over 80 percent! And the debt mountain will continue to grow in the next few years. If all of the out-of-budget debt of ASFINAG, ÖBB, federal real estate company are included, it is more than 80 percent! But we already have the highest tax and tax burden in the second Republic. We are heading towards a 45 percent tax and tax rate. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, under these conditions, as we currently have them in Austria, no one can think of an economic enterprise as moving forward. No country in the world can look to a positive future under these conditions. We need to change the swivels to allow our small, medium-sized and also one-person companies to breathe again, invest again, get money from the banks and create jobs, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That must be the foreign exchange. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There are, therefore, three very large areas of problem, the problem areas that we are setting up. The first problem is the lack of public procurement. Mrs Federal Minister, Austria is far less than other European member countries. In Austria, we have a quota of 1 per cent, as measured by gross domestic product, on public contracts. Germany has 1.5 percent and Sweden 3.5 percent of gross domestic product. In other words, we have recently fallen back very far, because of course you also save because you hold back money and because you do not make any public investment either. And one of the main reasons for this was that you have recently pursued a housing policy that has led to the fact that the housing funds have often been speculated by the countries, how you can establish this in the example of Lower Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the housing contributions paid by the employer are to be spent on housing – and that is not to be speculated! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's a mistake if you take people's money off and then speculate with these money. We need these housing funds to create a living room! Then the rental prices will go down again. I was very happy that the head of the party of the ÖVP finally recognized that in Austria we have a tax development that is going to mean that the fees are already taxed. In fact, fees and charges should be used to cover the effective costs in the administration, but the fees are now so high that they flow into the ordinary budget of the municipalities and are to be regarded as tax. That, ladies and gentlemen, has therefore voted in favour of me that the ÖVP wants to fight together with us, the BZÖ, towards lower fees and do something. And I also expect Mr. Spindelegger to put pressure on Mr. Pröll, the head of the state, who apparently opposes this. [[Abg. Head: head?]] The second major point is that the banks hold back the money and do not include it in the economic cycle. This is the second major breach we have to work on, because this restraint on the banks also leads to an investment restraint in the economy. Therefore, we need to think about alternative ways of financing and cannot leave banks alone to lend loans and make money available to businesses. There must also be alternative financing methods, and from my point of view, it is unreasonable for banks to hold back the money and buy government bonds only instead of making operational loans available to small, medium-sized companies so that they can finance or pre-finance their orders. The third point, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the most important point: We finally have to turn a little down on the control and charging screw. It cannot be that we live in a country of the highest taxes, where we have recently become a “high tax park” and people no longer have money to spend it because they are covered with the costs. We have – and this is the most important requirement of the BZÖ – developed a tax model in which we want to relieve especially small and medium-sized income recipients. They give the money directly into consumption. They ensure economic recovery. Yes, what better way can there be, ladies and gentlemen, than to reduce taxes, to make people more confident, hope and courage to move on and thus boost the economy and create jobs for people – who then make profits and pay taxes, so that the money flows back to the state? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is our economic model we are talking about – and we are convinced that it can only be done in this way. You have not learned anything from the Alpine argument, my dear ladies and gentlemen from the Federal Government, Mrs Finanzminister, and this also says today a newspaper, the “Zürcher Zeitung”, which writes quite openly: “The election wound turns out to be inflated upon closer consideration,” it says quite clearly inside that all these measures and funds you use for this so-called economic recovery, a scam pack, a mogel pack, are that these funds have long been planned by your ministries, that you are only ready to spend what you have already sold three times. – This is not an economic initiative, Mrs. Federal Minister, and this will not lead to a significant boost to the economy. [[Abg. Amon: Would you like to take on new debts?]] They're taking on new debts! Because the 700 million that come out of the budget – these are planned measures – and the 800 million that go out on pump. They call it “fresh money, ” but “fresh money, ” ladies and gentlemen, are fresh debts. It can only be if you have a deficit and if you do not get a proper, balanced budget. That is why this is a completely wrong measure. The only right measure, Mrs Finanzminister, can only be that you are finally addressing the systems, finally addressing the tax system. There lies the “Marie” buried, as your colleague once called it. [[Abg. Tight: Zaster! “Here with the Zaster!”]] There is the zaster we need – for the people in Austria, for the economy in Austria, so that it finally goes up again! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At the screw of the big administrative bureaucracy in our country you have to turn! You need to work on this – but do not constantly take up money and make debts for the next generations. Our grandchildren, who have not yet been born, have to take off all that you are building on debt mountains. You are the Minister of Debt of the Second Republic! You can't get rid of this stamp anymore. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that must finally be done, ladies and gentlemen. It is a purely numerical trickery that has been done with this economic package – a pure numerical trickery, a money destruction! And if you don't turn on the screws, then nothing will turn to the positive either. Then only the debt mountain will continue to storm, but there will be no real economic recovery. In my view, Mr ÖVP Party Head Spindelegger has already correctly recognized the steps towards an economic recovery. For example, he says in the “standard ” on 13 March. June, we now need a “burden brake. ” He says: ‘Everything else is a risk of poverty caused by the state.’ [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein as well as other representatives of the ÖVP:In Vienna!]] I cannot say that, but Mr Spindelegger can say that. He says the charges are a state-induced risk of poverty. Spindelegger according to “Krone ” of the 13th century. June, the fees “will eat up the net wage increases of the people. ” “That’s why the cost adjustments should be based on actual costs in the future.” – And he continues: I look at how other parties react. Ladies and gentlemen! We are responding today and will submit a number of motions for resolutions: on housing, Federal Competition Authority, child allowance, family allowance, health bonus, federal anti-inflation law. We want to create a fee cover in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! Support us with this! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, we are excited to see if you take your party leader seriously. We're excited to see if you take him seriously. If you do not give our requests your consent, do not take your party leader seriously, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. So simple is the bill. Support our initiatives with regard to fees! If that is not the case, then Mr Spindelegger is poor as a top candidate for the National Council elections. Then he will not be taken seriously by his own Members in the House and will be lost, since he has no support from his club. Ladies and gentlemen! It must end with cheap election promises, because all the cheap election promises you make from the ÖVP now come after, after the choice of being expensive to the people.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e4169	Mrs Fekter spoke on the issue of an opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e4191	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers on the gallery and in front of the screens! On the urgent request of the BZÖ, I would like to begin with with the following: Austria is not focusing on recession. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All existing forecasts by WIFO, IHS, Oesterreichische Nationalbank, International Monetary Fund, OECD and Commission confirm Austria for this growth, even though this, as I admit, is not particularly intoxicating. But as apocalyptic and consecrated as the BZÖ draws this, it cannot have been the talk of Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The preliminary indicators are improving. For the next year, growth rates are forecast by 1.2 percent. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we also have growth this year and will also create new jobs in some 22,000 jobs. This is work for the people in this country. And in order to do so, the Federal Government has quickly presented a package which is intended to stimulate this growth plant and unravel the economy so that we can have jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, don't talk so bad about our country! That's irresponsible! This hurts the location and irritates investors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is no doubt that many of the employees affected by the Alpine argument now have a difficult time, but one month these employees are protected by the insolvency compensation fund. In the meantime, it is ensured that construction sites currently in operation will continue to be operated by other more efficient companies, so that construction workers can continue their work. I am convinced that the employees will then be taken over quickly by the new employer. We try very hard to find a solution for the employees of this company – the mass administrator is behind this, together with Minister Hundstorfer and his possibilities – that we can also deal with this insolvency in the labour market and keep people at work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear Mr Bucher! A clear reduction in taxes and taxes is a declared objective of mine. That's what I've emphasized over and over again. However, the stabilisation of our budget and budgetary discipline must first be the priority. And there has been a great deal of success, namely, a Stability Pact with the countries that have shown that the countries have brought in a zero deficit in discipline. And all your unknowings on the occasion of this Stability Pact have been punished. Here we were successful with a major reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will have a balanced budget in 2016 and a surplus in 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we want to invest so that the economic engine does not get in the way of people having work. But this should not be based on new debts and, above all, not on new taxes. And we have presented a smart package where we have listed the Federal Investments, where we have also loosened funds for housing construction – without new taxes and without new debts – and where we have immediately helped the people who have suffered from flood damage unbureaucratically. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And we will immediately repair the infrastructure that has suffered from flood damage, but at the same time we will prefer those projects that are intended to protect against future floods. We had a timetable that would have extended until 2020. We will now tackle this more quickly. Most of the planning has already been completed. We can invest immediately in the construction of these measures. And these may be completed by 2017 so far that people are protected from the next floodwaters, they should come. Our actions are at the right time. We did not need the inspiration of the BZÖ, but we already had it all on track. [[Ironic cheerfulness at the BZÖ]] And above all: By means of careful budgeting, these measures were now also eligible for funding without making new debts and without raising taxes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] By 2016, €1.6 billion will be spent on the economy, financed by wise retransmissions of the existing budget, through those revenue we still expect through privatisation revenues. The privatisation proceeds from the digital dividend will be higher than planned in the budget of the BMVIT. The money that lies above that will be invested in housing, in the form of a one-off grant to the countries, so that they can boost housing, because it gives people housing, homes and above all has a good economic effect. So the priorities are: Housing, support for SMEs, flood protection, federal buildings, families, but also care, the infrastructure for childcare in the federal states. We thus strengthen the economy, secure jobs and at the same time maintain the budget path. Rehabilitating the budget, igniting the economy and easing families – that is my goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's right, we have a few serious miscarriages in our tax system. For example, the labour factor is too high, for example, the input tax rate is too high. And above all, we have no adequate tax relief for families with children who have higher costs due to their children, as they know, for example, Germany. That is why I have also proposed €7 000 per child, i.e. €3500 allowance for the father, €3500 allowance for the mother – as soon as the budget is consolidated so far that we can afford it. This is for us one of the first measures we want to implement during the next legislative period. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you say that we have not made any reforms, Mr Bucher, I wonder what you have decided here in Parliament. We have a stability package with the countries that have acquired a debt brake. We have reformed the administrative jurisdiction. We have tied up an administrative package, where we reduce 10 percent in the public service while at the same time making efficiency improvements. We have decided a 27-billion-€ consolidation path here in the house – admittedly not with your voices, because you do not want to be there with the good things. But these were good things! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The deficit reduction, the consolidation path, which we have already decided here, together with a reform in the pension sector, with a reform in the health field, is a major step forward. But you simply ignore all of this, and thank God not the government groups. And I would like to thank the House that these things have also been guided in the right direction in the House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the tax model of the flat tax. It has already been made clear in the last session that I did not welcome the flat tax so much, but the late Mr. Bruckner, who introduced it to me as an integrated model and then told the newspaper that he had introduced it to me and that the feces would see it that way. But last time we made this clear in the House. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! 25 percent tax rate, flat for all, would be the largest millionaire relief this republic has ever seen, because at present millionaires pay us 50 percent tax. With the flat tax according to BZÖ model, these millionaires would only pay more than 25 percent. I say quite clearly to you: I acknowledge that those who can do more should also do more. But to relieve them so much I do not think I am justified if the entire model of the BZÖ costs €20 billion. I don't know where we could spend 20 billion euros elsewhere. That's why this flat-tax model is not feasible, Mr. Bucher. [[Abg. Bookbooker: That's total nonsense what you're saying!]] Your flat tax model costs too much. [[Abg. Booker: That's not true!]] 10 percent of the best earners pay 50 percent of the wage tax. So if you reduce these 10 percent of the best earners to half, I immediately lose a quarter of the total wage tax, and we can't afford it, probably even if we already have a zero deficit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: This is not our model!]] However, in the public administration, one has to keep track of savings potential again and again. That is to say, continuously every job, every office, every department asked to find savings potential. [[Abg. Street: When do they start?]] With us in the house a lot has been done through e-government, through simplification, through efficiency improvements and through better training of our employees. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is a well-managed country. Since I have known Italy better since I knew Greece, I know that we are a well-managed country with high legal certainty and a good basis for the economy and jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] What does not mean, however, is that one cannot always find potential savings, efficiency potential. For example, we have already examined the 590 Court of Auditors' recommendations in detail and implemented over 420 of them. But what is implemented then no longer mentions, because the good is not worth yours, but only apocalyptic horror scenarios. And that doesn't deserve Austria. The people in Austria do not deserve this either, because we are a hard-working people, who are well standing there, better than everyone around us. And you have to keep that to people once too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to thank the House for the fact that those 36 government proposals which are currently being discussed in the committees will be adopted before the summer, which is next week. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this shows that this government, together with the government groups, is actively working for the benefit of the people of that country until the last day of this legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e4385	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e4413	Madam President. Thank you also for the welcome applause on the part of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] I shall now take this fairy tale hour, this hour of your Mrs Minister's introduction. Ladies and gentlemen! Who pays 50 percent taxes in Austria? Who? - No one, because there is no such thing, Mrs. Minister. This is the competence of this Mrs Finanzminister, who is behind me. That's how it looks once from the tax progression. And for the second: You didn't seem to have studied our tax model either, Mrs. Minister. For the Director-General, whom you are constantly talking about, is paying more tax on our system than on the current system. But I can give you a little bit to read. We have a BZÖ tax calculator, which can be requested on our homepage, also for further training for the ÖVP fraction. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I can hand this over to you. Then you'll see what it really looks like, Mrs. Minister. [[The speaker hand over the mentioned tax calculator to Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] It would also not harm the ÖVP a certain amount of training. Ladies and gentlemen, what do the people in the country have of this theoretical deal that OECD and WIFO believe we are on the go? What do the people in this country have to do with the fact that you decide on papers that have a reform on the content when the Billa seller outside, the savings seller, no longer has money in the stock exchange, so it is difficult for them to care for their children when the donor feels that he has to pay more and more if the training of our children in many areas is already more than in danger, for example at universities? What do people have of it? – They have nothing of it, ladies and gentlemen! They always say that a tax reform to give real relief to citizens, to people, even in the case of fees would not be possible. I know we have the tax increase party, the SPÖ. Vienna is a classic example of fees, but also at the federal level. They want to punish the hard-working, the disciplined. – Not with the BZÖ, I say quite clearly! And over there, the slanderers of the ÖVP, who pretend they want a tax relief – including you, Mrs. Minister, literal quotations. You've had time for this for five years. And you didn't do anything! But you want to present an X for a U before the elections. And then tell us we have no money for tax relief. I will now give you a few examples of where the money disappears in this country. In fact, you, red and black, are really heavy-duty twins, but certainly not reformers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They talk about family support and place it as well, while you grab the families deeply in the pockets. They have shortened the family allowance. You have the 13th. Family aid almost completely removed. Think about the social security contributions! The Court of Auditors has a savings potential of €86 million. Nothing has happened – on the contrary: In the health sector, you have increased the recipe fee by more than 10 percent, and in the food sector – your Obmann Spindelegger says – we pay about 150 € per year. Klubobmann Bucher made an advertisement to the Federal Competition Authority a long time ago. What happened at the ÖVP resort? – Nothing happened. Now copy and paste it cheaply black – that's too little, people don't feel that. We want to see concrete actions from you, and today you have the opportunity to agree to our requests, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or at the energy: That's where the gift is. It's twenty million a year to Euratom to the nuclear industry. Climate protection you make abroad, using JI-CDM programs; Hundreds of millions have sunk you there instead of forcing us to force renewable energy, jobs and green jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] With wholesale prices, Mr Kopf, you see how they are falling on the world market, also gas prices, and in Austria are rising. – Yes, what kind of policy is that? Their national leaders sit in most EVUs and would have it in their hands to intervene and lower the electricity price. - Please don't! [[Call the ÖVP: Maybe you've already come up with that?]] The E-Control then notes that the electricity price in Austria is up to 10, 12 percent, and here you come and talk about lower fees – you probably don't believe this anymore, ladies and gentlemen! On administrative reform: The Court of Auditors has shown that up to 4, 5, 6 billion can be raised. Let's give this back to people! Why don't you do that? – Well, because you protect your clients in many areas in this country. At the ÖBB – there I am at the red half of the empire – 600 million people have been speculated and poured in billions a year. For this you have money instead of giving back the workers in a proper tax reform. Also in the ORF with the forced fees, 100 million were speculated, in which AUA spent 500 million – pointless; the money from the taxpayer is also gone. With regard to tax revenue, ladies and gentlemen, you are very much in favour of it. Between 2010 and 2011, income taxes alone increased by more than 8 percent. You don't have a genius to access through the cold progression. Since you're cashing off, from the savings-seller up to the Director-General, that doesn't matter. Whoever brings performance must be punished according to old socialist tradition, then you can take a little bit away from it so that you can perhaps give something to the whole poor who don't want to work. – Not with the BZÖ in this country, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And when you think about it, With 300 billion total debt – federal government, countries, municipalities, ÖBB, ASFINAG, BIG – we pay 30 billion in repayment and interest in the year. 30 billion! Our Fair Tax model would cost 3.5 billion. You can finance this almost ten times – that's how it looks – and every seller would stay in the wallet for about €1,000 more in the year. These are the facts. In the field of justice, people are deprived of access to justice. In the first instance, you will have to pay 673 instead of 271 € in the future. So if you want to get right in this country, you have to be good at cash, colleague Cap. The little worker then no longer comes to his right – and you have also voted in favour of this cast-off team, at the ÖVP; you were there too. By car: Organ mandates are increased from 36 € to 90 € – including your performance –, penalty supplies from 365 € to 600 €,Anonymity supplies from 200 € to 365 €, and, and, and, and, and, and. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] There's milking, disposing – and you're talking about discharge here. Yeah, who else can believe that? – No one believes it in this country anymore! In addition to this, with the increase in diesel and petrol surcharges in mineral oil tax, you have strongly disbursed the drivers and then reclaim 535 million more per year. So, ladies and gentlemen, the billions are swirling away only in the way that you turn away from the citizens of this country; Forcible contributions to chambers, to the ORF, to the Trade Union Confederation, this is not a compulsory contribution, but it will also be possible to discuss it. And then you come here and make a fee stop. I know the model of the ÖVP's pay stop from Upper Austria. Landtagswahl 2009: We had a fee stop, and one year after the election we no longer had a fee stop, because there was a huge increase in fees – up to 30 percent in some municipalities with water, canal and other municipal charges. [[Interoperability call at the BZÖ]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This is your fee stop: big before elections and then fall over and let the fees up to the level fast. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is totally unbelievable what you are doing here! Mrs Fekter, I can remind you of one thing. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] You yourself said: ‘The State is bold in the wallet.’ – Yes, then let’s make sure that the state comes out a little bit. There is also a self-equilibrium of the colleague Tamandl of the ÖVP; she said a few days ago “ÖVP makes life in Austria again manageable” – emphasis on again manageable. [[The speaker holds a document again]] That's the absolute self-esteem! That is, you have made it inexorable to get along properly in this country with the money you earn with fair work. This is really the ÖVP. That is why we have been saying consistently – and not just before the elections – for years: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek]] Reforms, point 1; and point 2 give people a little back in a tax reform. [[Call at BZÖ:Genug paid!]] For years! This is the right way we will have to go in order to secure the economic location in order to reduce unemployment in order to secure the future of education, because only if we invest in sustainable housing, for example, or in the field of care, will we also have future opportunities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] Last word on your business package, Mrs. Minister: You said you already packed 1.6 billion multiple times, divided into five years. – Divide Let's go of this! There you come to 300 million. I have discussed this in the Committee on Budgets. That does nothing at all, and apart from that, it is not a fresh money either. It is a mogel pack, Mrs. Minister, which you are presenting to us here, also for election campaign purposes. Finally, we want very clear reforms and a reduction in taxes and charges for people in this country, so that more remains on the market and people also have the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e4570	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e4592	I mean, the Quintessence of this slightly perplexed speech by Mr Widmann was: Citizens, build the streets yourself! Citizens, take care of the health care itself! Citizens, take care of everything yourself! [[Abg. May. Widmann: Didn't you watch out?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] We don't need tax revenue, nothing more. And above all, the super-rich we pay once and for all, if they have paid taxes at all. – This is the Quintessence and the message of what you just gave of yourself. [[Abg. Kickl: Comrades!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] And this also somehow fits in with the urgent request, which says: “No doubt Austria is heading for a recession!” You can also try to speak up. You can also say that we are in a single torture cellar. You tried that, but that's unscrupulous. You don't think that's what you're looking at. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Mr Cap, these are your decisions! - Oh, my God!]] And if you've understood someone, the coffee harbor has fallen out of hand with what you've told me and with what numbers. They threw them around. I would also like to say one thing – that is, in so far as the urgent request is being made inside –: When you think about this, and the Minister of Finance has brought a few examples, a tax reform according to the Fair Tax model of the BZÖ – we have discussed it here before – means, for example, that a manager with an annual gross salary of €1.3 million is paying less taxes by €120 000. That's what you're proposing all the time. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Bucher and Mr Mag. Widmann.]] While we say that we finally have to abolish this, that the managers take length off width, one bonus hunts the other, you have the forehead, come out here and say: More money for the managers, because they are so insanely successful, most of them! That's what I'm gonna do, but the second is: When you calculate this, Klubobmann Bucher pays 17 000 € less taxes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] Calculate this once! Well, you laugh now, you already think of the 17 000 € you pay less, Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. [[Abg. Bookers: can't count!]] But that's your model you're putting on the table, and I could face you a couple of times: The pensioners with an income of about €800 per month have to pay double taxes as before. [[Call at BZÖ: This is stupid!]] So it's very easy: BZÖ means that every pensioner burns the double of taxes, managers and the clubman of the BZÖ get more out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] - That's a great model, I understand. What's Mr. Widmann getting for the role he's playing? Do you get more somewhere, or has Mr Bucher already shortened you on account of this insidious speech? [[Abg. Krainer: That's it!]] At least I'll tell you: This is not a model, and it certainly does not find any support here in this house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another thing: Yes, of course, one can try to talk about a crisis – talk about it, talk about it – and then hope that one will prevail in the Redeemer competition with the Stronach team. But you have no chance; they have a much better model: The sun rises, and it wears Frank's facial features. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] This is their program: Slowly, he's screwing up the sky with his hairstyle. That's the concept they have. – Mr Bucher, you will never be able to compete with. You can still meet so many millionaires at the Wörthersee, in some of your boat's axe, and think about how you can give them more money – nothing comes out of it. The model: Choose BZÖ, and it flows milk and honey; everyone gets better, no one gets sick, no one gets a sniff; you don't have to pay anything anymore, only BZÖ choose, then radical for everyone is better!, is okay. [[Call the ÖVP:Do you need a campaign manager?]] If you go into the choice – and I wish you all the best – you can still be so friendly about the posters, so it doesn't become more logical and better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] So it's a highly interesting competition that's taking place there, and we'll see which one of you has more success with this line. Let us, however, come to the facts, and I have a very small comment here: Mrs. Minister, you've been talking about a millionaire relief. You mean the millionaires who have the money in Austria, and you mean the millionaires who actually pay taxes. Because we want to distinguish very strictly in the search for the 245 billion €, which have bunked 77 600 millionaires, where in the last year alone 22 billion euros and 5 500 millionaires have been added. A few weeks ago, this was in the “Kurier” on page 10, economic section, not in Marxist leaves or in any other newspaper, but in a serious newspaper like the “Kurier ” and in other newspapers. I have to say that, in all cases, this is an argument against this model, but you have to ask yourself, however, to what extent we are now also making sure that when dealing with the effects of the financial and economic crisis, not the average worker and the employee, the small, medium-sized enterprises are burning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] In particular, those who have the big money and who, of course, make a special effort with their law firms to put it in such a way that it is, so to speak, as far as possible avoiding tax, not even in Austria or where tax evasion is involved. [[Abg. Kickl: Just like the union with its foundation! How much tax debt?]] There have been initiatives, including you, at European level. This is no reason to raise emotions, but it is only about taking the appropriate steps as well. And since, I have to say, the SPÖ has so far enforced a trend change in tax policy banking, securities-KEST, real estate speculation tax, reduction of foundation privileges, solidarity contribution for top earners, restriction of group taxation. [[Ironic cheerfulness at the BZÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't know you could be so funny! Really a humour!]] – I can once again list the list in peace, that is so. That went in the right direction, and that has a volume of 2 billion. And then, of course, one can also help to reduce the tax, but a tax reduction in the wage tax sector, in the income tax area, where more money is in the pockets, which sets the economy in motion. [[Abg. Bookbooker: You are entertaining, you have to leave it! Fun tax!]] - That's what it's all about! But you also have to calculate this, there has to be counter-financing, you also have to know where the money comes from. You do not ask this question because you have turned out and not even said what all that costs is what you propose 15 billion, 20 billion, 25 billion. [[Abg. Bucher: Everything already planned!]] - Where does that come from? Does it happen by chance, or does it rain down from heaven? – You have to say that! You haven't said this the last time, because you've done the following: You have already put such a urgent, and your employees have used the same text again, easily updated. [[Abg. Bucher: Staff!]] They have not addressed how important it is that we have tied up an economic package, how important it is for us to set up initiatives in the various areas, for example in the construction sector, for example in housing, flood protection, and, and, all that we have decided in the government. [[Abg. Bucher: You speculate the money! You speculate on the promotion of housing!]] This is too real political or too boring for you, or maybe it's already too many numbers, and you don't remember it for the talk; but this is, for example, a crucial point that you have in it, and I have to say: That's crucial! Put yourself in the position of the thousands of employees of the Alpine! The Spanish owner says: Go take it, willol’ ma takena, draw’ ma zua! – that’s a topic of its own – and now a sophisticated system of the Austrian political system, the government, is really helping the social partners. The entire construction sites then remain in real operation, and we do everything we can to ensure that there are social hardships and that the workers trained here can continue to work. Where is there such a political system in Europe, a system where such a response will really be? In times of crisis and in the event of real economic downturns and recessive developments, we manage, with the instruments we have at our disposal, also with a commitment from the budget, that we can counter the fact that we guarantee even more employment in this way and that we can finance the social and health state and all the institutions up to the pensions. Finally, I say to you: You don't play with that! You don't play with that! This is about human fate, and this should not be carried out on their backs, just because the water in the surveys is right up to your neck!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e4850	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e4871	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think we need anything to talk about, but we shouldn't do anything bad either. We know that we have a difficult situation in Europe and we face major challenges throughout Austria. Mr Bucher, if you are talking about reducing taxes and making new debts for it, then we are not there. [[Abg. Booker: I don't have it! Didn't you listen to me?- Oh, my God!]] We are involved when it comes to reducing taxes, but only when we can afford it as well – and there is no room for this right now! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The experts - and Mrs Finanzminister has already done this - have again made the forecasts for the future a little more positive, and I believe it is important that we go into the future positively; that we do not suffer here, but that we support our entrepreneurs, the economy, so that we can go into a positive future and secure jobs in Austria. I think we should be very careful about the figures. They say that the insolvencys have exploded just because we now have a really tragic larger example, the greatest insolvency in history. If we look at the insolvency statistics, we see: We have around 200 insolvencies less in the first half of the year than in the previous year, so you should leave the church in the village too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] Of course, the insolvency of the Alpine is a bad thing for Austria, but we also have to say that the Alpine is not an economic and political problem. The Spanish owners have failed to do so, and there have been strange East transactions and other shortcomings that have led the company into bankruptcy, insolvency – and this is not a matter of policy. The policy is aimed at solutions, and I see this also in my native country of Salzburg, where everyone is sitting at the table under the leadership of head of state Wilfried Haslauer, every construction site is going to work point by point and see that the construction companies can take over the orders and the employees are kept in employment. I believe these regional solutions are important because these regional solutions are also successful. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think there is little understanding that if we are to provide state support to large companies that are in a wrong position and the small ones themselves to look at how they are going on. That is why there is this common way to continue this work with regional providers and to secure jobs. Supplies have also earned our support. With regard to the 80 suppliers with 1 000 employees who have real problems, Minister Mitterlehner has made sure that they are provided with corresponding liabilities and guarantees from the operating aid so that they can be dealt with immediately. We therefore see how important these joint activities are to safeguard and create jobs. Mr Widmann, that is what I am doing in the workplace. They say that this economic package does not create jobs. – Only the actions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs worth more than € 650 million will secure and create 7,400 jobs. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Today 161 million! What do you want with that? That's nothing!]] [[Further call to the BZÖ.]] The entire economic package will, according to the first estimates, secure and create new jobs in the short to medium term for 75 000 jobs and 110 000 jobs in the long term. I think these are the right measures for a location like Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the topic of jobs – I am very much on the road, not only in my federal state, but also in companies –: We all know, and there we must agree: The jobs create only entrepreneurs and not policy. That is why it is also the fact that the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs we have in Austria, who together with the industry secure this success of the Austrian economy, deserve our support. [[Abg. Bucher: But you're going to do it, from ÖVP! You're breaking it! You just want corporations!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I say it quite clearly: We are in a permanent match between those who want to tax and those who want to secure growth and employment. We from the EIA are fighting for growth and employment – and therefore also a very clear message: Hands away from new taxes, because new taxes are poison for the location! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: can you spell the word “reform”?]] Mr Colleague, look at France: There taxes have been increased, people have left the country, businesses have settled down, and unemployment has increased. – This is not our way, ladies and gentlemen! We are going in this direction and we are taking an example of those countries that are reducing taxes, because they are much better there. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Richard! Emil! Friedrich! Otto! Richard! Martha!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] That is why the concept of our Mrs. Finanzminister – at the peak tax rate to increase the entrance limit, lower the tax rate, release for those who pay taxes, and for the families – is exactly the right way. I think that if we create the spaces so that we can go this way, we will also implement this tax reform accordingly. When you look at the media, Franz Schellhorn got to the point last Sunday in the press: At six weeks of vacation, we will not get out of the crisis, but we will need other measures. If we want to secure jobs, we need the support of entrepreneurs. It has also been mentioned today: The alternative, the complementary forms of financing, that would be impulses that we need! Our coalition partner would also be asked to bring together a solution here until the... – The solution lies at the table? – Then you only need to agree, Mr Krainer, then it would probably be easier for our entrepreneurs to get money. [[Abg. Krainer: The solution is at the table! You just have to agree!]] [[Abg. Krainer: We already put the solution on the table!]] In this respect, I say quite clearly: The economic package is a good thing! And hands away from new taxes!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e5044	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e5066	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If today the one or the other speaker of the coalition parties has spoken, here the Apocalypse is conjured, then of course you have to hold on to what realities we live in. Today we have a record unemployment in Austria, as it has been since 1945, since that time in this dimension. [[Abg. Krainer: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sure it is!]] [[Further calls and counter-calls between Mr Krainer and Mr Ing. Westenthal]] That's dramatic! And if you pretend that this is an invention of the opposition, then you are the offenders who are actually trying to present essential dramatic developments differently than they are present in reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Record unemployment, the highest tax burden and charge in the Second Republic! [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true at all! That's wrong, too!]] [[Call:Surely, that's true.]] Never before have the Austrians had to pay more taxes and more fees than today. We have a dramatic situation! The Apocalypse, whose incitement you are trying to impose the opposition, is the reality that you have to answer! We have record unemployment, record taxes, record charges, record taxes and unfortunately record poverty in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you stand out here and say, It's all great, it's fine, it's fine! – Do you think you can make the citizens of Austria aware that this is an invention of the opposition? Unfortunately, these are realities, these are sad realities! And then we still have a record state debt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] That's the best thing at all: This is where the ÖVP, which is 25 years above in government responsibility and has proved no economic competence, takes the opposite, namely record debt, to the speaker's seat. And with the record debt, we are actually in reality in Austria – be honest! –, with €285 billion of government debt, insolvency. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Yes, hello, hello!]] - Of course! They're debilitating the public. And at the same time as the record-state debt, you have also managed – of course, because we have nothing left at all – to bind up wonderful ESM debt union aid packages and also to burden the Austrian population with €68 billion in liability for EU bank speculators and pleite states once again – our grandchildren, who are still shivering on them. [[Abg. Dolinschek: That's how it looks!]] This is the reality today, where you stand out and try to deny it. This initial position is dramatic, also thanks to your government responsibility. Seven lean years, and then you say a recession, which is not at all. [[Abg. Dolinschek: 2000 to 2006 were the fat years!]] – After what did we have in the last four quarters? – Recession! And you stand out here, and the Minister of Finance says: Recession? That's a strange word, I don't know, I don't want it; no, there's no! – Of course it is! And then you get out and say what we have, that's an international, global financial crisis. [[Abg. Bucher: The opposition is to blame!]] – Then you have to critically question that too. It is strange that there are differences in an international, global financial crisis, which can be measured in the European Union. There are euro countries in the European Union who have a crisis because there is, in fact, a euro crisis. They have a crisis and experience that economic growth is no longer there, but recession that there is unemployment that we have massive problems. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Höfinger and Mr Tamandel.]] And then in this Europe, in the European Union, there are states that do not have the euro, they have national currencies. If we had a global financial crisis now, they would have to have problems similar to us now, they just don't have it. They have economic growth, they have employment growth – in contrast to us. That alone shows how dishonest you eventually go home again and again with your arguments because they do not vote. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We have a Euro crisis, a self-made euro crisis! And right there you have to address the core and try to get out. [[Abg. Krainer: Which countries are you talking about?]] [[Abg. Amon: Which country do you mean?]] [[Abg. Krainer: What country do you mean? Poland?]] And then you come with a business packager where you show exactly one: For bank speculators, you are willing to burden the Austrian population with billions of taxpayers and to relieve bank speculators; when it comes to the real economy, when it comes to saving the Alpine and the 17 000 jobs behind it, you are not ready to take appropriate measures, and that is the issue of disclosure. [[Abg. Kickl: Not able!]] That's exactly where people can see what's important to you. They stand out and play the class fighter – and in truth you are the biggest supporters of these neoliberal banking structures. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is where Mr Cap turns out and speaks of tax justice, and the ÖGB is still guilty in some areas of what he has parked in the foundations. That is not credible, Mr Cap. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Of course we have to reduce taxes, of course we have to finally relieve the citizens, and of course it is time, after years of stress on the Austrians, to finally make a time of harvest possible for the Austrians, so that with their work and with their performance year after year they can finally be relieved and again have more net in the wallet and can afford their lives again! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That's the basic problem. Of course, we can now discuss different models; we have a model different from that presented by Mr Bucher. Our model is another: I say that we want to reduce the input tax rate to 25 per cent and thus immediately relieve the smaller and medium-sized levels of income, of course to compensate for the cold progression, to raise the basis of assessment from €60 000 per year to at least €80 000, with a view towards €100 000. Yes, that would be the necessary relief. This means boosting the economic cycle, which means that people who have less money to spend today can finally spend more again. And this could also lead to total, overall, total employment, and cost-neutrality by reducing taxes, where it is necessary and important for those who work, but who no longer have the money for the increases in fees that they are expected to receive in Vienna under red-green and in other areas. It is precisely there that payrolls take place, where the government parties then recover and say: A whore! The rents in social housing are no longer manageable today! – Who are the rent sharks in social housing? Do not SPÖs in Vienna or ÖVPs in other countries mean that they have caused these dramaticly high rental costs and operating costs and the increase in fees and the increases in fees that the citizens and the poorest of the poor suffer today? [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] - It's you! This is exactly the admission that this is also the case. If you take this seriously, you have to say that's a control right. They go for electricity, water, canal, gas, public transport, and everything is increased. The Court of Auditors has also rightly pointed out that this is, in fact, a forbidden tax which you are doing, which is truly extorting citizens. That's where we have to counter it! And at the same time, the Minister of Finance is taking a stand and saying: Of course, we will take a closer look at all the administrative areas in order to be even more economical, finally to be able to give back to the citizens and guarantee discharges at last what the Court of Auditors has shown – the €12 billion, which disappears year after year. – Well, we have been waiting for it for the last five years in vain. Where, in the field of administration, has some concrete discharge or optimization step been taken, where you can now go and say: [[Abg. Dolinschek: None, nobody!]] [[Abg. Krainer: The Administrative Jurisdiction!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Let's finally give the citizens back money! - That's your responsibility. The Austrian tax money has to be used here in Austria, for the many-faced problems we have here, not for the EU, not for bank speculators, not for Pleite States, but here in the country! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] We have problems here, which are serious and which are not at the level of a predicated apocalypse, but are reality and which people suffer from daily real-politicism. They do not know how they can afford the high rents, the operating costs, the food costs – everything that has increased – today, because of which many people on the 25th of the month of course have to make debt and cover their account in order to cover their basic costs. This responsibility is not lived. They do not even equal inflation in the case of family allowance, child benefit, care aid or the pensioner price index – not even there! Even there They're cold expropriation to the citizens. I therefore say: These injustices, caused by red and black, I want to stop so that it will finally be fair in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the political claim we are raising, and this is necessary in many areas; in many areas it is important to be enforced. Of course, we already have a rich tax today if you take the highest rate of taxation from Austria. There is no class struggle, dear comrades from the SPÖ, but justice to the service providers, so that, in the end, performance providers in the lower and middle incomes segment have to be relieved, because they have nothing of it if you do not relieve them, but always have a placebo debate about the super-richs. What does a small and medium-sized income beneficiary have if you deduct more taxes from the more wealthy, but these do not give him? Therefore: Smaller and medium-sized income earners belong to relief; something has to be done there at last!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e5364	Ladies and gentlemen! It is my pleasure, it is a very, very great pleasure for us to welcome the athletes of the Paralympics 2012 to our home, including their caretakers. [[General condolences.]] Even though it's been a while since: Afterwards, I would like to congratulate you once again on your great successes that you have achieved last year and will certainly also be able to achieve. Good for the future! [[General condolences.]] Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e5400	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This urgent request today also offers from the point of view of us Green opportunity to engage, however, with the Federal Government and less with the urgent request that exists because it is ultimately no longer than the campaign writing of the BZÖ for the current poster series “down taxes”. It will not be possible to promise tens of billions of tax cuts, at the same time less budget deficits and, third, anything else that is good and beautiful. But this is not as much the concern of the Austrians as your concept is now to be found, but rather the situation of the Republic itself – and what the Federal Government is doing. We from the Greens do not want to acknowledge that Austria has a lot of data compared to other European countries – because it always comes back to you. It would be stupid not to want to see that. But sometimes you already wonder – and actually more and more often – whether this is because of or despite the red and black federal government. [[Abg. Amon: It's all done by itself! Then why is it in other countries...?]] The evidence of the spite – in the best sense of the word – is actually increasing, and I want to get closer to it now. First to your package – again: this is the good thing that we are dealing with this urgent request today – “Economic package” you will probably not say for yourself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] This reflects a certain principle of the Federal Government and, in particular, the black half of the Federal Government, and this is simply a swindle principle, an economic voodoo principle, where you have been trying more strongly for years and days to earn your merites, but it becomes pretty slow. [[Abg. Amon: I think with Voodoo you have more in common than we do!]] – I’ll explain it to you, perhaps you can follow me; if you’re already intervening from the first row. There are statements by Mr Spindelegger – by the way, much more of him than you, Mrs Finanzminister; in your case it was anyway relatively harmless – who is not here today, but who said the following: We make a package, but it must not account for more than €100 million! – Although it was called the “Jumbo Economic Package”, it must not be more than €100 million, because it is a pleasure to the ideological loot that, if you really need money, you must not take control of anyone, just so that you can claim that we do not make new debts. That's your credo; it's also a campaign element. Of course, you didn't explain what you had set up with €100 million – and it's not clear either, because that's stupid anyway. What is much more dramatic, however, is that there is an alleged economic party in Austria, by the way also a supposed European party that tries to make us aware of the following: More than €1.5 billion are now used for anything, but there are no new taxes, there are no debts, there is nothing in this respect at all! – Question: Then where does the money come from? It's very easy – and fogged You don't continue these fundamental truths, because that already starts with you like Grasser –: It's about money, and if it's going to do something, if it's a real investment, then you just have to take money and serve the investment, otherwise it wouldn't be a package and no investment at all. And if so, then this money is either not usable elsewhere for another investment or for another project. Or it is not usable to reduce the debt. Or it is that you need to finance this through new taxes. – Something else doesn't exist! More than that, the basic accounting methods do not produce, and they are also reasonable for a Finance Minister and even more for a Vice-Cancellor. Therefore: Finally, stop damning the population like that! I would almost have said something else if you had to discover and hold a “V” in your party name. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's Voodoo, that's not going to happen anymore! But we're almost used to it from you, and I just remember buying the interceptors. There are also – today still being sought – additional billions, but those who have obviously disappeared on corruption grounds. This is certainly not about the extra billions of the alleged counter-actions. Where are these? – For 11 or 12 years, we have been looking for these, but there has not been a serious counter-action to be taken to this day. At the time, the predecessor of Mr Vice-Chancellor stated that this was a super-business, that it was all self-financing! Platforms are founded, and they fly! . Especially that the interceptors don't bring any more money when they fly in to Austria. All ÖVP-Voodoo-Economics. Voodoo! The banks. – Your predecessor, Vice-Cancecian Pröll, at this point – I have chosen this; this happened not only on television, together with bank directors, but also here, without bank directors –: It's gonna be a business, the bank package! It's gonna be a business! - That's not even invented. That's where the chickens are playing all over Europe! No one trusted it. And Austria is a Havaria country, as far as banks are concerned, not least because you have intensified the problem that others have caused, rather than solving it. But also since the usual principle: The dizziness is going on. We must not find a successful solution to the hypo, because this may still affect any budget figures. – That’s all statistics! Horror They are not, when the truth of the debt is there; when it is there, it is there! That's the rating agencies you obviously value, anyway, because they're not so stupid that they don't know what's going on. There's nothing to do with all your covert dances. – And that is exactly how it is with Mr Vice-Chancellor, if not even more tragic. This brings me to the point of budget dissipation, budget voodoo, the third – “costs nothing, brings a lot!” –, back: You said the other day... – The light can't quite vote if I have 10 minutes of speaking time, I think, but maybe it can be clarified. [[The speaker points to the red light at the speaker's desk.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e5465	They wanted me to stop 8 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e5481	Thank you very much, Madam President. – The SPÖ has accused Mr. Flip-Flop policy, in line with other terms in the world’s most important countries, where this expression is used. [[Abg. Kickl: They don't think of anything themselves, they also have to do everything for the Americans...!]] I can understand this very well: Mr. Vice-Chancellor is always trying to orient himself to the Federal Chancellor Merkel, because you have also resigned from it. Now it's just stupid that the Merkel changes their mind every three days and we're three days behind. And so it just happens that Mr. Vice-Chancellor sometimes says something different on the same day than what the Merkel says, and he's three days too late again. Therefore, the term “flip-flop” is not quite wrong; however, what would be even more striking would be “hip-hop”. – With this thing about budget voodoo, which you show here – that is to say, a lot of investment without money – it would be more likely for a hip hopper for money rain dances. That's what the vice chancellor is delivering here right now. We shall go into this debate. That only looks funny at the first moment – but you pretend to be an economic and European party! That's where you totally fired it. It needs better and more serious forces, and we challenge you exactly at this point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It cannot stay with the people constantly spreading sand into their eyes, and you still declare that this should be the future. There is indeed a lot of important things to do for the future. It's not like that. With all that, as the country stands – not even so bad at all – remains enough to do. It's true, that's also my finding, we're actually living by the bacon in the chamber. If we continue to do so with our innovation and economic policy, we will be very different in a few years. If we continue with social security down, too little, this will also look different. In this respect, one can even take up a point of the previous speaker: It is just fatal to create such imaginative, even most expensive solutions for bank rescue, which cost many billions, while the money where it is used is either no longer available or at least leaves out, so that nothing can be achieved anymore. Of course, there was a need for a major re-taxation, including in the semi-industrial country of Austria, and indeed a major tax reform which must be preceded by an economic and administrative reform. That's all right. They seek the Court of Auditors, but who always stands across when it comes to preventing a school administration reform, preventing health reform and economic promotion reform? – The ÖVP is the first cross in the stable. Retro, social cold, this is your program, so you march through the country and thus stop relatively much. I don't know if you notice, but you're from behind. If you're already putting, grandma-sparbook of tomorrow and all these campaigns, in many areas the poster series, on your action, would be really 19. ==References== It's almost where the ÖVP arrived. But if you keep thinking, you really get there. That is why you also have the challenge here, because there are really both ecological and social concepts for the future that produce much more economic power than you actually preach or actually stop. Really do what you want to do. You don't want anything – you just want to be ascribed to it – but that's no wonder in your alliance policy, in your economic chamber policy, if everything that smells a little modern is immediately moved to the back chamber. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Your Secretary of State alone will not help you either – you have not done that unskillably, but that is the only thing you have to offer – because of course it does not prevail. Where is the major reform of transparency, which would be necessary for a long time? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Finally, Madam President, it really needs an ecological social tax reform for the re-taxation, the cessation of harmful subsidies – and that really needs more courageous policy than the EIA does, but we are going to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e5543	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e5565	Madam President. High house! Before we talk from my point of view about what we can or cannot do in Austria in the sense of tax reductions, we should look at the world economy a little bit. There is a finding that is also shared internationally and that needs to be discussed here again, namely that the economy has been driven by two factors worldwide in the last decades. That was on the one hand cheap energy, most of it fossil energy, and on the other hand it was debt. In other words, the world economy has grown by two factors that are no longer available to this extent. On the one hand, the energy is no longer cheap and also no longer available unlimited, and on the other hand, it is the debt. That is, even at the back of this planet, one has understood that one cannot make debt until the Sankt-Nimmerleins-Tag. We have also gained this knowledge here in Austria. Right in this environment, we move. Now you can say, okay, if we have some of the world's problems caused by these two factors, and we can't just keep growing, then the central question is: What can we do in Austria? – There would be a lot to do. As far as the debt situation in Austria is concerned, it can be said that we have debt as in a war economy. There has, historically, been no country in peace periods over the last 600 years that would have had as high debts as we and others in the European comparison. We are all about the same, others are a little worse, but ultimately we have almost 100 percent of GDP in debt, and this is usually not feasible in a peace economy. We have to consider why it has come so far. Why did we go to the devil to go out, why didn't we do the homework? – The answer is simple. If you look at the government work of the last 30 years, you realize that no one government has ever been willing to do the homework. The developments in the pension area were foreseeable. Depending on calculations, we pay 6, 7, 8 billion each year. In the health field, for example, we only now had to finance the health insurance funds again in order to compensate. But the administration is also bloated and bloated and bloated, and no man is thinking about whether we need it at all. Finally, there is no willingness to do the homework. Why is there a lack of willingness? – Because the finance ministers of recent years have simply been able to make more and more debts. There has been no one who has forbidden them. There was no emancipated Parliament that said: Until here and no further! There was no such thing as that. The population has also watched as we have always made more debts. In the end, nothing happened. If we talk about the Alpine today and about the pleite of this company, then it is very significant, Mrs Minister, that you worry about the Alpine and their 4 500 employees. [[Abg. New builder: 4 950!]] That is also good, but you have not lost a single word about the employees in the subcontractors. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] These are 164,000 people who are at risk from subcontractors, 1,000 of whom are under acute threat, but you have not lost a single word about that. You have not lost a single word about the fact that you are giving a bridge credit to those companies – and these are hundreds – that are now having problems, because the insolvency of the bills is not paying any more. You know, since Basel III, the money has not been so loose with the banks, especially as far as businesses are concerned. You have not lost a word about that either. I would have expected that from you, especially since you are always so generous with loans, for example to Greece. We have been criticizing since 2010, that every month, every quarter, you always transfer money to Greece, although you know that Greece cannot be saved. There is practically no more experts who see this differently. There is now even a new calculation from the ifo institute in Germany that a further 200 billion must be left to the Greeks at the latest after the Bundestag election in Germany. Another 200 billion – then, in total, we are already at 300 billion, which the Greeks have cost so to speak! If we had made them plead at the time – as we recommended in 2010; if the whole opposition had recommended it – it would have cost up to 100 to 150 billion. After the election we will be at the double of what it would have cost if you had listened to the reasonable votes at that time. This was not only the opposition, it was also a lot of experts who saw it that way. Mrs Fekter, if you are already so generous with your millions, consider: They don't belong to you! That's taxpayer's money, you didn't deserve it, but that's what you're taking from taxpayers. And taxpayers expect a careful handling of this. The question is therefore: Are you? Are you taking care to deal with this? – If you look at the matter with Greece, you can say no. There are, however, several examples. Take a look at the hypo! The hypo has been called into question, as we all know. This now costs us between €6 billion and €8 billion, depending on who calculates it, and that will be beaten after the election. If you look at exactly why the hypo was nationalized, you can say that there is virtually no reason for it. Even the Court of Auditors finds no reason, and there are no experts who find a reason. The only reason at that time was apparently – Mr. Kultererer said now in an interview – was that Mr. Pröll was married to the Raiffeisen and Raiffeisen always had a problem with the hypo and, so to speak, wanted to remove it from the market or keep it under control. Thus it has been nationalized, the influence has been secured, and ultimately the taxpayers are now in liability, Mr. Kulterer has said, and he has to know, he has led the bank for many years, until the mortgage has been sold to Bavaria and then without need – without need! – was taken back. [[Abg. Krainer: Is this the one who was sentenced for balance sheet fraud?]] The Bayern have bloated the credit volume, cost it what it wants. It was said at the time: Growth at any price. This was issued to the hypo: Growth at any price! Everything was purchased for this purpose. These slogans have rocked the Bavaria, so the Bavaria also have a large part of the fact that the hypo has come into this mess. – Then why does the Austrian taxpayer, represented by Mr Finanzminister, go and take the problem back and pay €6 to €8 billion?- Oh, my God! These 6 to 8 billion € will be beaten after the election, I can guarantee you. That is why it is important for citizens to know beforehand what is happening to them, that the citizens also see beforehand that there has not been a proper economy here. There's no reason at all, even if you're always telling me that Carinthia would have pleaded, because Carinthia had a liability, a failure liability. But when you look at the amounts, you know that first the owners will come to the train. That is, if the hypo had become a credit, the owner would first have come to the train who would have had to pay, and that was the Bayern. If Bavaria could not have paid any more, would Bavaria have pleaded – who of you believes that?; I don't – then you would have used the substance, so to speak, and only then would the Carinthians and the Carinthians have come to the train. The question is what would have been left. – 6 to 8 billion €? Who of you really believes that? It would probably have been less than 1 billion, which in the worst case would have been to pay. In the worst case, because there is no one who has calculated it so far. It's also an insanity. Nor does the Minister of Finance know how much could actually get beat. So don't tell us these fairy tales, give us pure wine, tell the citizens what is actually happening to them, namely, 6 to 8 billion! These are in about two to three tax increases, as you know from the past, so the citizen must, because of the behaviour of your predecessor and because of the walling of your side, with two to three tax increases only to cover the hypo plea. I expect you to give the citizens pure wine and tell them what went wrong before the election. If you also care about it to your predecessor, I have no problem with it, but it's about telling the truth. The citizens deserved the truth. You know why? Do you know why the citizens deserved the truth? – Because the citizen will have to pay as well. After the election, he will pay for what caused you and your predecessor, and that's why he deserves you to give him pure wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e5622	Mr Ing. Westenthaler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e5654	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Klubobmann Cap – he's coming back right now, I'd like to chat with him a little bit – has come here to the pult – I've looked at it exactly – was somehow irritable, not satisfied with the fact that a special session is taking place today in view of the dramatic events that are taking place on the labour market, for example, and he has said that we want with our flat tax model – which is absolutely undetectable, but you just put it into the room – only more money for the managers who already deserve so much. You did not provide the proof of this, which is also not included in the flat tax of our model by Josef Buchersicherfach. But I bring you another proof, and you should be very, very careful with such statements. The only ones who have implemented this sentence: more money for even more managers, who already deserve so much, into reality, at least some of them, are in fact your present socialists of the last, the younger, and the middle party history. These are your people, climate, schools, casters, Androsch, Ederer, Ruttenstorfer. I only mention a few who have changed the class in the course of your long-standing class struggle, which you always preach here, and who have arrived in the Upper Class, which you so gladly criticize. This is the difference between Being and being, between theory and practice in social democracy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is where class struggle preach against the evil empires and the representatives of the little ones play and then, when it's over with politics, get into the nests of a great group and get rid of it properly, that's really the social-democratic attitude of the last decades! One more thing, Mr. Klubobmann Cap! They stand here and say that people don't play with them, and thank us for having convened a special meeting today for concern about the jobs. – You’re perfectly right, I’m right about you, you don’t play with human sicks; They're talking about the unemployed. It is depressing, distressing, and it hurts to see the workers of the Alpine inactive on their construction sites, as they show with really affected faces every day their fear that their workplace can be gone and they have nothing left to do and get into a big trouble-responsible shale. Yes, people don't play with them, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, but have you ever asked the rulers and thinkers from your party who in the 1980s led the nationalized industry down and destroyed thousands of jobs? Have you ever asked the drivers and thinkers of your red “consumer” who have driven this company against the wall and destroyed thousands of jobs? Has You asked your social Democrat Gitti Ederer, Siemens-Chefin, who is responsible for hundreds of job losses at Siemens? Did you ask your super-expert Hannes Androsch, who is now acting as an advisor to the chancellor everywhere, what about the people at AT&S when he shifts his business to China and throws it out? Have you perhaps asked Mr. Gusenbauer why he – and that is forgotten – has fled the Alpine Supervisory Board, hand in hand with Mrs. Ferrero-Waldner, when he has already noted that this company is going down the stream? Have you inquired about the human skills that your social democratic representatives are responsible for in the enterprises as a work destroyer of the very first rank? That's the truth, and they should ask you once! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] It's actually inconceivable: After all the pleas, in the face of thousands of jobs that you have destroyed, stand out and present – only yesterday – a poster with your chancellor, on which says: “We fight for every job.” [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] This is a mockery and a threat to all Austrian workers who know very well how many thousands of jobs are Your comrades in this Republic have a conscience, Mr. Klubobmann Cap! That's a great poster, I wish you all the best. It is, as it were, a symbol for everyone who passes by and sees it. It reminds us of all the jobs that social democracy has had in the past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] In the meantime, Mr Krainer, that is the case, we have ended up with an unemployment record. 400 000 including the training courses, 10 percent plus the previous year in the month comparison – this is an absolute record, you can't deny that, and unfortunately it's not over. It is therefore not over because your government, together with the ÖVP, does not do anything because you continue to burden people rather than relieve them because you inhibit purchasing power and because you keep the taxes high instead of Josef Bucherzu trust and finally reduce taxes so that people will finally have more money to spend. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Also that's wonderful, great: The president of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Leitl – and I quote – now comes to mind: ‘State is the robber of purchasing power’. This is what Mr Leitl says at the end of the ÖVP government participation after 25 years now at the next election. For 25 years, the ÖVP is in the government – and Mr. Leitel points out that the state governed by the ÖVP is “the robber of the purchasing power of the people”. It's all so incredible what a political ad that was again. This has really been a shot in the knee, but perhaps also an approach of honesty in view of your policy of debt making, high taxes, rising unemployment, the highest pleas and also most plea records towards those people who live in unemployment or poverty who have to cope with all of this. Two now walk through the country, hand in hand, ÖVP – Spindelegger, SPÖ – Faymann, and promise what this stuff holds. Everything is promised, by the opposition parties the best ideas are cut off and printed on posters or in brochures. Everything is promised: We will reduce taxes, the additional wage costs we will reduce, the fees we will reduce, the taxes we will put down! More net of gross has now been said by an ÖVPler – that is, for years, more net of gross – and sees how for years cold progression and inflation have pushed wages, so that under the year for everyone who receives a wage remains less than more. All this is to be heard now. Next, only more is missing that you promise permanent sunshine and 24 hours of leisure time. That's probably going to happen, too. These are the next election promises you all don't meet. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You won't keep it all up again. I'll tell you something. The only way you have to keep your word from red and black is not to give it! This is the only way you have, because your promises are nothing else – it will soon come back to winter – as snowballs, lightened, but quickly torn in your hand because they are not worth anything. You always promise, but it's nothing worth it. By the way, Mrs Finanzminister, you, of course, – I can quote it – called for the flat tax, as stated on 24 May. ==References== Then you said you were making a big tax reform – where is it? ==References== June 2011! You have said you are planning a really big throw and – then it comes – you can also imagine a flat tax. And today you don't want to know anything about it anymore! - Also an interesting version. I conclude with a quote from an excellent journalist, in the truest sense of the word, who has already received several prizes for journalists. These journalists, Andreas Koller of the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, were asked what he said about the policy of Mrs Finanzminister Fekter. And he put this together wonderfully in a sentence. I quote Mr Andreas Koller, editor-in-chief of the ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’: She has no idea where she wants to go, but for that she is slower there. – There is nothing to add to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e5791	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e5815	Madam President. It has been said a lot about taxes today, but it is not always true. Among other things, there has been a persistent claim that we have the highest tax and tax rate in the history of the Second Republic. A simple look at every parliamentary document clearly shows: We had the highest tax and tax rate in the two years in which we had a blue finance minister in Austria. At that time, the tax rate was over 45 percent. In recent years, it has always been 42 percent, much lower. [[Abg. Bucher: He was also from the ÖVP!]] We did not have a massive rise in the tax and tax rate, but it fell in 2009, fell in 2010, dropped in 2011 and slightly increased in 2012, but still significantly below the tax rate that existed before. [[Abg. Bucher: ÖVP Minister of Finance!]] So that we can talk about the facts here. Because of the fact that one is constantly claiming something, it does not become true either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It has been said that the flat tax would almost finance itself. I think the Minister for Finance presented this very well: It costs €10 billion. Who's got anything of it? - The top ten thousand. Family support with the family allowance of € 7 000 per child looks good at first sight, but what does reality look like? – 40 percent of families have zero €, another 40 percent of families have a bit of it, and the top tens of them have 5 billion, almost the total 5 billion that costs, and the counter-financing is completely unclear. [[Abg. Bucher: Negative tax! Don't forget the negative tax!]] – This proposal certainly does not agree with the Socialists! It has been said that millionaires pay 50 percent taxes. – That can be true at times, but usually that will not be true. This depends on how this income is generated. [[Abg. Kickl: union!]] If it is generated by work, then in Austria you pay very, very much taxes and taxes. [[Abg. Kickl: How's the union?]] However, if this is done through capital gains, you pay a maximum of 25 percent, but on average between 20 and 22 percent of these revenues. But if the income is generated by work, you pay about 40 percent of it in taxes and taxes. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Who is responsible for all the additional wage costs?]] [[Abg. Kickl: How much does the union pay?]] This is the inequality we have today: If you earn your money through performance, if you earn your money through work, then you pay high taxes, that is, €10, which you earn, €4 in taxes and taxes, but if you have an unprofitable income, then you pay significantly less taxes, namely of €10, which you earn, just about €2 in taxes. This is the wrong situation we have, and this is also the reason why we do not tire out social democrats, say that taxes and taxes on work must be reduced and taxes on capital and assets raised. And that's it! [[Abg. Kickl: And the union is supposed to pay her!]] Let us look at what has happened in recent years – because the accusation has come: You're always talking about it, but you're not doing anything! –: We have done just that, during this legislative period we have reduced taxes and taxes on work by €3 billion in several steps, and at the same time, together with the ÖVP, we have introduced or increased assets and assets taxes by around 2 billion. That is right and good, and we are facing the election, but also after the election, because we know exactly that the way we have gone so far was right, but we are not yet at the end, not yet the goal, because there is still this imbalance. Although it has become a little better, it is far from well-balanced and well-balanced. That is why we will not be tired of saying that the taxes and taxes on work are still lower, although we have already taken first steps. [[Call the FPÖ: Then do it!]] – We've done it, up to 3 billion! Listen! At the same time, however, we do not say that we are making debts, but in this legislative period we have reduced taxes and taxes on labour by 3 billion and at the same time increased them by 2 billion to capital and assets. [[Call the FPÖ:Where?]] I know you did not vote for it because you were against the tax reform, in which we also decided, among other things, that what you have introduced, namely that managers are allowed to cash up to €35 000 tax-free on bonuses, will be abolished. This has been the FPÖ policy, although speaking for the little man on Sunday, but when you were in the government to decide on privileges for the top ten thousand. [[Abg. New builder: For the cast farmer!]] You forgot the little man, because there we had the highest tax and tax rate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just for information. That is why we are also saying that those who still do not make a fair contribution, who still do not make a fair contribution, such as millionaires, such as those who start millions of heritage, should be taken steps towards greater tax justice, so that we can also reduce taxes on earnings, on income from work. [[Abg. Kickl: Why does the union not pay their taxes now?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e6006	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e6028	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am not quite sure why the BZÖ convened today's special meeting – perhaps to bring new ideas here, or perhaps to make my clubman a special pleasure and congratulate him on my birthday, what I do with it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and Team Stronach and representatives of the Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! An opposition chief has spoken here today of the honesty of the arguments. And in doing so, he referred to a number of countries that had surplus and growth. But he did not say that, for example, because the northern countries are always called Norway, of course, benefits from the oil deposits accordingly, he did not say that in many of these countries the retirement age is unevenly higher and is not like us at 58 years and something, but at 63, 65 or 67 years, which of course means that we have a corresponding cost burden. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] But then tell the public, people, that you want to raise the retirement age at any age! That it is necessary to raise this gradually will not want to dispute anyone. [[Abg. Kickl:, you demand it all the time!]] But this should be handled carefully, so it should be raised to a reasonable extent, ladies and gentlemen. You should say that clearly. Then Mr. Strache said that Austria was in bankruptcy. - I'm telling you, I'm telling you. What about America in view of its budget deficit, its debt? What about Japan, France and Germany in view of their public debt? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: Japan has domestic debt and no foreign debt, that's a difference!]] Mr Podgorschek, I am not talking about Italy, Spain, Ireland, Hungary or such countries. That's very exciting. It is undisputed that Austria has a positive view that Austria can take up the benchmark with regard to employment as regards youth unemployment. Yes, as far as the budget deficit is concerned, we still find ourselves in the list of better countries. That we could be better is undisputed, of course. But if it's said that everything had already gone so wrong with us, I have to stop it, that's a pity that can't be justified by anything. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: And why subsidize all these states that don't work?]] Ladies and gentlemen, it was particularly exciting when Mr Westenthaler described the impact of the Alpine construction workers here from this speaker's desk. – Yes, there is controversy, that is undisputed. And there must also be done everything that goes towards help. But the crocodile tears that are poured there are inappropriate. For, ladies and gentlemen, if you are already quoting supervisory councils which then withdraw from such bodies, then you should already know that if a management is unable or unwilling to run an operation accordingly, the Supervisory Board has only two possibilities to release either this management or to draw the consequences itself. That was clarified once. Ladies and gentlemen! We should consider more often how it could be possible to accommodate more core shareholders in such Austrian companies. But what happens if a larger bank participates in companies – as we did in the RLB Upper Austria or sometimes Raiffeisen Austria – that makes the core shareholder or plays a major role, I only call the Voest, AMAG and others to keep stability in the country? – Then you are stoned, and it is criticized that you have your fingers in it everywhere. That's the other side. But if it's sold, it'll be sued again. It would be important for Austrian core shareholders to be able to work stabilisingly, so that things don't happen, that foreign companies then loosen up: get a few more sugars before, perhaps also take them to the side – in order to make this clear – and then send the rest of the area into bankruptcy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is not heading for recession. Austria has pursued a positive course thanks to this government. Austria certainly has a positive number of jobs in Europe. Austria can also be positive in terms of public debt. The need for appropriate measures to stimulate, such as flood aid, protection buildings, residential buildings and so on, is undisputed. This economic package has been clearly presented by individual speakers, including the Minister for Finance. Perhaps we should also consider – and I would like to take this opportunity – that certain measures should be taken. It's exciting. We rightly complain that the flood causes problems over and over again. But if, like in Hallstatt, the monument protection prevents one from changing the clause in order to be able to drain the water in time – the monument protection prevents that! Then I wonder where the world is going. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And I'm asking you, too. I could show you a few examples where nature conservation has prevented a construction in high-water protected areas, with the argument that the houses on the hills would be visible, but in the valleys, where there are floods again and again, it doesn't matter. There, these rulers, who are concerned with monument conservation, nature conservation and so on, should also think about what spatial order would be useful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] Because one thing is clear: With all the assistance we must and must also grant, it will be to be considered that it is necessary to make clear that there is an absolute ban on construction in such zones, as mayors, councillors and supervisory authorities are required. In the case of new dedications, due to these bitter experiences, care must be taken to ensure that it is not built where floods can be expected. The signs and experiences should be clear enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e6136	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e6157	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister, you have quoted your party leader, Mr. Spindelegger, who has said that the economy must be unleashed and that you will create 60,000 jobs. You have also confirmed that. – Now, however, you will not believe that you will do this with this economic package amounting to €1.5 or €1.6 billion. What we think of this economic package, by the way, is that You probably read in the press today. Otherwise it would have directed you to the industrial union. Because in principle it is nothing but a drop on the hot stone, which may now help you to get over the election. Then the whole thing is stuffed, for a very simple reason: You have forgotten to change the accompanying measures. You will not all seriously believe that you can save the Austrian construction industry at €1.5 or €1.6 billion. Now I call you a few figures on the Austrian construction industry: The Austrian construction industry – that is more than 30 000 entrepreneurs. Last year, these had 270 000 employees, a turnover of over €40 billion and a gross value added of more than €14 billion, and they invested in their own businesses about €1 billion. And now you do not believe that you can save the construction industry at €1.5 billion and create 60 000 additional jobs! Her colleague, Hundstorfer, has said for months in every discussion about unemployment in Austria, that they will continue to rise in this year and that a calming can occur on the labour market at the earliest end of next year, if the economy really recovers. In addition, we're so good at it: Both the Oesterreichische Nationalbank as well as WIFO and IHS and as they all are called, the numbers are constantly revised every three months, in the three-month rhythm, down again and again. Half a year ago, it was said that the economy will increase by 1.8 percent in the coming year. Now they're already 1.2 percent and say that's super good. Mr Haubner said that we are better than we were predicted. I don't know if 1.2 is better than 1.8. He can see what he wants. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But the fact is that with all the things you do – it doesn’t matter if it was the ESM rescue or the rescue of the financial market in Europe with a total of €670 billion – the result now is 10 million unemployed more than before, and so on. Here too. You have been saying this for three years – your predecessors have already said that, both Josef Pröll and Willi Molterer – and the tax rate must be below 40 percent. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They all belong to an investigation committee!]] We are already moving to 46 percent. The tax rate for companies is 53 percent! We have a much too high tax rate. This is also always the case with the industrial association in the period of the month. We also have a lot of additional wage costs. We have a lot too high taxes. And in the meantime, we've got a sort of red tape that's already a huge burden on micro-enterprises. It is not a month when the government parties or the EU do not have new rules that lead to nothing but financial or bureaucratic burdens on companies. And that's nothing but job destruction! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am right for Mr. Minister Hundstorfer – he obviously has more far-reaching vision than you – who says that this year the unemployment rate will continue to rise even further, a calming will only occur at the end of the next year when perhaps the economy will really start again by 1.2 or 1.5 percent. We all hope so. It is not that we do not hope that it will only happen in your government policy and in your way of exercising the responsibility you have for jobs. Another point: In the next five years, 58 000 businesses in Austria are on hand. And you still can't change the environment. This begins with the business regulations and goes up to the plant permits, where conditions are being imposed which are no longer financially feasible in the event of a takeover. And of these 58 000 farms, two thirds are family farms. I do not know how you can justify it if thousands of jobs continue to be awakened or lost. That's what I'm excited about. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now I come to my colleagues Cap and Krainer. They come out of here and talk about us having to scrape the millionaires. Yeah, great! But what you really intend to do, you don't say that. I don't know, I have to help you get to the jumps, or have you forgotten, but the meeting of the union union has not been so long ago? Don't you know the demands of the union union? – An inheritance and gift tax from € 150 000, a property tax from € 700 000. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It's all wrong! Wrong!]] - Wait, that's going on for a long time. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Wrong! Wrong! Wrong!]] Furthermore: a billion skilled workers – the entrepreneurs are to pay 1 per cent of the annual wage. In addition, you want an overtime charge, which the entrepreneurs also have to pay. Then you want to introduce a malus system for companies so that older employees can be resettled. All these are additional burdens for the companies. However, we have already reached the ceiling at the expense of the companies. This would put thousands of jobs at risk. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you go to the speaker's desk here, tell us everything you're planning on with this package and everything about how you'd destroy jobs in the future, and not just that you want to scrap the millionaires you don't get or don't catch, because they've been gone a long time ago.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e6243	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e6265	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! First of all, a preliminary remark: What is spoken here of by some of the club members of this Chamber of Speakers is already legendary. You have to say that to our spectators. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One of them said Austria was pleading. – That was Mr. Klubobmann. Another has said that Austria has debt as in a war economy, 100 percent of GDP. – This is a special class displeasure! In 2012, the government debt ratio was 73.4 percent of the gross domestic product. If you subtract what the banks have supplied us, it is 63.4 percent. In these situations, speaking of pleite and debt as in a war economy, I think that it is highly responsible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now on the real issue. Mrs Finanzminister, you want to unravel the economy and boost investment. - Yes, you can talk about it. We should also talk about this in view of the economic situation in and around Austria. The euro zone is the sixth quarter in a row in a recession. Austria is a little better, but the WIFO is likely to significantly lower the economic forecast for Austria tomorrow, but it will increase those for the unemployment rate. Let us therefore talk about an economic package, because we need it, but let us talk about an economic package, Mrs Finanzminister, which deserves this name too! I have looked at your Council of Ministers very carefully – both yours and those of the SPÖ. This is herb and beet, and everything will be messed up! You, Mrs. Finanzminister, say you want to finance everything through smart retransformations. Mr. Klubobmann Cap says this is a sophisticated system. [[Demonstrative Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I can't see a sophisticated system, except for the veiling system. Let us take a look at what this economic package really brings and in what areas it is going to be effective! – Probably most likely where it is about flood aid and flood protection. This is about loans in the order of €400 million. I express my support for this. However, if you act as if many other measures, such as – I take an example – would bring additional, fresh money to the economic bonus in the area of thermal rehabilitation – because only by this can you detach the economy and stimulate investment – then this is a disaggregation, because the €20 million planned for this comes from the €100 million for thermal rehabilitation that you, Mrs. Finanzminister, are selling in your offensive package year after month. What's the matter now? Is that true? Offensive package or does this business package apply? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is a PR package!]] Don't tell us constantly any stories of money that you shift from one area to another and you're supposed to want to unravel the economy! I could give you other examples of this kind. They say – as your party leader, Mr. Spindelegger – that this is a business package without new debts and without tax increases. I looked at this a little bit. To what extent will debt be increased? – In a number of measures, there is talk of the need to resolve reserves. Each reserve resolution in the new reserve regime leads to an increase in the deficit and debt under the new budgetary law. Mrs Finanzminister, you should at least know this, and here do not make such an outrage! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] If you make yourself here today and say that the more revenue from the frequency auction will be invested in residential construction, then that is welcome, but if you continue to say that the debt does not increase, then that is also, with permission, an unfortunate because you are missing these 276 million € yes! With this € 276 million you could otherwise reduce the debt, but don't do it because you use these funds for something else. The same applies, of course, to flood protection. It is very welcome that additional measures are being taken in this area, but where do you take the €200 million? – Again you get into a foreign pot, namely in those of the settlement water economy. The money will of course be missing there too! It is not true that this is a great investment package, which causes investment and leads to no cost if you just get into a pot and say we are moving the funds into another pot now! For example, if one wants to continue to finance the urban water industry as before, the additional tax money will be devoured. They scatter sand into the eyes of voters, which is really inconceivable, Mrs Finanzminister! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Schotter! That's Schotter!]] The same applies, of course, to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft. Resolve profits: Yeah, what do you think that means?- Oh, my God! This, of course, means an increase in deficits and an increase in debt under the new regime of the European system of national accounts. [[Abg. Bucher: Next year we will increase the debt!]] So a little bit of something. I would have expected a better economic party – and the ÖVP claims to be the economic party of this country, Mrs Finanzminister! And you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, are being held hostage! Mrs Finanzminister, on the tax package: If you're sitting in the glasshouse, don't throw stones! They say that the BZÖ tax package is unfinancing. – That’s right, I share this view. But your projects are also unfinancial – even in a situation where the budget has been renovated! The amount of money you propose per child of €7 000 costs about €4.5 to €5 billion and, by the way, brings exactly zero to those who do not pay taxes, while the operators of the service can, of course, bring €7 000. The reduction in the input tax rate costs €5 billion, Mrs. Finanzminister, and you say that if you have reorganised the budget in 2016, you will make a tax reduction of €10 billion. – Where are your counter-financing proposals? Where are they, Mrs. Finanzminister? You have to explain this to us once! Why are you not concerned about what is close to us and what the Commission has just said in the country-specific recommendations that it is necessary to discharge the factor of work? One can ignite the economy where it is about reducing growth-reducing taxes, and these are taxes on labour! What does the European Commission recommend? It recommends compensating for this by means of higher real estate taxes. But you don't want to know about that. Mrs Finanzminister, please read these recommendations! They have decided on them themselves recently in Brussels, and I am now in favour of them, and the European Council will decide on them today. Keep up with what you decide in Brussels and implement this in this country! You've been talking about it for years, and you're not touching an earwashing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Whatever these recommendations say – you should read them through; I feel you are not reading these documents! – that capital taxes are among the most unharmed taxes at all. So if you want to trigger growth, please do so on what the European Commission recommends you to do and what the European Council – the Federal Chancellor – will decide today! But you do not want to know anything about all these things, because you are doing the following priority in the field of tax policy: You are the patron saint for the billionaires in this country, precisely because you say you do not want to tax real estate and other assets more heavily. Instead, they propose the middle class, which would not, by the way, be taxed at all. This shows very clearly the figures of the Austrian National Bank. This is one percent of the wealthiest households, where around 50 percent of the total private assets in that country are concentrated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Secondly, you are also the patron of tax evasion, because you have blocked for months on the question of banking secrecy, which other states have long practiced. If you continue to adhere to these tax agreements with Liechtenstein and Switzerland, you continue to encourage tax evasion, for it would be very right and reasonable to say: Let us not give these millionaires a right to tax evasion, but let us pay them taxes like all other taxpayers in that country too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e6378	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e6399	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The truth is reasonable to people. – This is similar to what some previous speakers have said today. You have to tell people the truth and stick to the truth. If the spectators at home follow this debate today, they will often not know exactly what truth is and what it is about, what it is about, what it expects, what burdens they must expect and what reliefs they may be able to expect. There has already been a lot of talk about the credibility of policy. I would like to quote Mr Aiger from the WIFO, who has recently said that policy must be credible and must not make promises that are not eligible for funding, because this is damaging to the reputation and credibility of policy. – Today’s debate is an example: A lot has been promised, which is not to be implemented and which cannot be financed. Let us look at the areas that have not been addressed: health, education, administrative reform. The tax reliefs were also limited. It has been over the past five years, when you can sum this up, not really a lot has happened, ladies and gentlemen, and I cannot spare you the accusation that you have done far too little for the people and were much too deeply anchored in your party structures. Now, if I look at the current economic package of €1.6 billion by 2016, I notice that money will be provided for housing, support for SMEs, care and childcare, flood aid and forced Federal Buildings. I would like to address the flood aid briefly. We know that the floods in 2002 and 2013 have caused very serious damage in many of the federal states of Austria. It has been learned a lot from the last flood, and flood protection buildings have been built, but unfortunately too few, as we have seen this year. On the other hand, the noise protection walls on the motorways like Schwammerln grow from the ground. There might also be a question of how much money is spent on these noise protection walls and how much for flood protection buildings, and whether this would not be more useful. I know the ASFINAG is in charge, but that would be a question and also a point to be addressed. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] With the proposed economic package, it is similar to the family package that was presented two weeks ago and which will only be implemented if red and black are back in a government in the future. That leaves many questions open. There are good and important approaches to this. The families have to be relieved. It must be borne in mind that the family benefits have not been valorised and that the care allowance has not been valorised either – and the care allowance has been in existence for 20 years! The care allowance is a wonderful introduction and a good setup, and it needs to be extended and above all upgraded. The care allowance must be increased financially. But now again to the economic package, which includes revenue from the auction of mobile licenses. You don't even know how much this auction will bring! This is already included, on the other hand, there is no amount at all at all. The same applies to the family package I mentioned earlier. The countries must also be brought into the boat. We know how difficult it is in part with the countries. I should like to remind you of the negotiations on the Single Youth Protection Act or the negotiations on the prohibition of speculation. There are the blockers, the red and black heads of state who prevent this. I wonder – and this is what the Austrians are rightly asking – how what is now being promised will actually be implemented and whether it will not fail again in the blockade policy of the national leaders. This is very bad, ladies and gentlemen. Policy must create the framework, create work, secure pensions, create security and trust for citizens, and citizens must also have confidence in policy. Unfortunately, this is no longer available or not sufficiently available in many areas. Also addressed to the SPÖ: The ÖGB gives you, ladies and gentlemen, and also to us and all Austrians, with its demands of billions of tax packages and inheritance tax from €150 000, a bear service. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you don't need to think about it, and you don't need the ÖGB either. We certainly don't need him on this issue, because we don't need load packages, but we need tax packages. We have to relieve labour, we have to create jobs, we have to get rid of the trade regulations – a colleague has already done so. it seems – because it is becoming increasingly difficult for entrepreneurs. The conditions are increasing, and more and more difficult laws are being made. The laws are, I have often mentioned, very difficult to read. They have to be simplified, they have to be deraged, and this also reduces the administrative burden, ladies and gentlemen. These are just a few points to be addressed. Unfortunately, there will not be much change in this legislative period. I believe that even the announced packages, especially in the family sector, will remain only sugars of choice. This is very bad, because the families need this relief. The families are the main burden bearers of the society. You have to be relieved. You can't always count one against the other or just throw it down. This damages the credibility of politics. We are absolutely against that. We want to make a policy for people so that prosperity remains secure, more prosperity is created and all can lead a good, satisfied and financially well-kept life in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e6482	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e6503	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The nine motions for resolutions tabled by the BZÖ, which are being tabled in the context of this debate today, are the worst of all for your credibility, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party. You have repeatedly announced over the last few months that you are committed to tax reductions. You have announced that you are working to improve the situation of the families. You have announced by your Minister of Finance that you will introduce the Flat Tax into this country. Now, in the votes today, we are making a test of credibility to see the difference between being and being, between the word and deed of the Austrian People's Party, although I can say that my experience of the last five years has taught me here in this House that as the Austrian People's Party, you are the party of the living break. Once again, we try to bring you to a certain strength of character and steadfastness. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: How was your commitment to relinquishing the mandate?]] – Is the Viagra sales already running very well again, which you have now introduced? - Very good. You do your business with Viagra. This is very good, Mr Bartenstein. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I shall now make these requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is also a classic demand of the Austrian People's Party, as I can read from the media. Another requirement that the Austrian People's Party has taken over from the BZÖ is this – and we will see today whether you will agree to this: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Bucher, ing. Westenthaler, Mag. Widmann, colleague and colleagues on federal anti-inflation law The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Finance is invited to the National Council until 1. In September 2013, the draft Federal Anti-inflation Act contains more detailed rules on the cover of the amount of fees and the safeguarding of competition for the reduction of food and energy prices.’ Another request: motion for a resolution by Mrs Bucher, Dr. Spadiut, colleague and colleagues on the introduction of a health bonus The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Health is invited to the National Council until 1. In September 2013, a proposal for a law that includes a health bonus comparable to the SVA offer also for all other workers who successfully pursue the health goals agreed with their doctor. “ Another request: motion for a resolution by Mrs Bucher, Mrs Colleagues, on the promotion of the transition to natural gas cars The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to the National Council until 1. Send a draft bill on September 2013, which includes support programmes for electric mobility and a changeover to natural gas vehicles.’ Another motion for a resolution, a classic request, which you too, Mrs Federal Minister, have repeatedly accepted: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Bucher, colleague and colleagues on reintroduction of the commitment to housing aid The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to send a draft law to the National Council by 01.09.2013, which includes reintroducing the commitment to housing aid and preventing any speculation with funding or claims for loan repayment.’ Another request: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Bucher, colleague and colleagues on strengthening the Federal Competition Authority and increasing the penalties under antitrust law The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council by 01.09.2013 draft laws which include an upgrading of the Federal Competition Authority, an increase in the level of staffing and tougher fines in price agreements with the aim of fighting cartels even more effectively in the retail sector." Another request: Motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, Mr Ursula Haubner and others, on the introduction of family aid to the European Union The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is requested to the National Council until 1. On September 9, 2013, a draft law to introduce the “Familiesanstalt NEU” – with 180 euros per month until the 9th of September 2013. Year of life, 200 euros per month from 10 to 18 years and 220 euros per month from 19 years, as well as a sibling season with a supplement of 7.5 euros per ‘multichild’ and a month (=15 euros for two children), 25 euros per child per month, a total of 75 euros for three children and 60 euros for each child and month for four or more children, as well as a family allowance for disabled children of 150 euros per month.’ Another request: Motion for a resolution by Mr Josef Bucher, Mr Ing. Westenthaler, Mag. Rainer Widmann, colleague and colleagues on “Genuine paid!” for excessive fees The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is requested to the National Council until 1. a draft law on September 2013 which provides for the anchoring of the cost-covering principle for fees in the Constitution.’ Another request: Motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Bucher, Mr Ursula Haubner and others on the introduction of an exemption of € 7 000 per child The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is requested to the National Council until 1. To send a draft law on September 2013, which includes the introduction of a child allowance of 7 000 euros per child.’ I'm asking for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e6605	The applications which have just been submitted, nine in number, are under negotiation. The nine applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7071	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7092	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to the BZÖ for this special meeting because it offers the opportunity to discuss the building economy package and also to show the impact it has. The fact that not all parties agree on how this affects is clear, that is politics. There is the policy of the rulers, who have responsibility in this country, and the policy of opposition, which tries to disprove knowledge here. But fact is, there is someone in this country who does not look away from rising corporate pleas, and there is someone in this country who does not look away with rising unemployment. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The BZÖ!]] This is the Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann with his Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's where you have to laugh!]] I would like to thank you very much for the fact that this building economy package is coming at the right time. If there are economic researchers here who say that's too late, then that's a mistake because this building economy package is coming right at the right time. Why is it at the right time? – Because it makes hope throughout the construction industry that they see a light at the end of the tunnel. There will again be more orders for the construction industry, and we will be able to make the market more relaxed. There is more fair competition because more is on the market. And this will also trigger hope for young people. With this economic package, the construction industry is ready to take in more apprentices, invest again in training, invest in the company. Privately, too, are motivated to invest. If the first 161 million of this economic package 2013 are already effective, 745,5 million 2014, 370 million 2015, 310 million 2016, this is the right answer. An honest sentence on the Alpine, because this has come from you, Mr Deputies: The Alpine doesn't help this. We must now take note: The alpine old has been closed last Monday by a closing request of the mass manager. There are now still 23 days of service for all 4 906 workers. And in these next 23 days, the big goal is to keep as many people as possible in employment. If the Central Works Council yesterday and yesterday managed to set up a programme for the next days – today the first meetings have begun, in seven days is the last meeting; in total, there are 33 business meetings throughout Austria, where all 4 906 stakeholders are informed of how they will get to their demands, how they will lose nothing, how they will have a chance to continue to be in employment in the future – then this is a mammoth programme. And this shows how important it is in this country that federal government members like Rudolf Hundstorfer, like Reinhold Mitterlehner, are doing together that the workers' chambers, the trade unions, the insolvency fund employees are doing together in order to be able to handle the largest corporate pleite in this country, from the volume, from the Euros, as quickly as possible positively as possible. And thank you very much to all those involved for this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the Alpine itself a few more sentences. Since last Sunday in the evening hours, more than 400 offers have been available to the mass administrator, such as the 4 300 Alpine construction sites in Austria are to be further processed. Over 400! The mass administrator works day and night to check these offers for their accuracy, for their future ability. And from this whole package, the creditor committee will work out a first package in the evening and propose to the insolvency judge for approval. After 14 days of production, in the hope that the construction industry itself in Austria does not put the haxels behind the curtain, but fairly deals with these honestly meant takeover offers from various areas throughout Austria, we then have the opportunity and the chance that the Alpine construction sites with 15. You can start again on July. I am more optimistic from day to day that it is possible to keep many affected employees in employment from this Alpine insolvency. This building economy package is also so important, because it is not enough to finish the Alpine construction sites and then say sluice and baby, but we have to see that we have follow-up orders afterwards that these people in their new companies, in the reception companies also have a job in autumn, also in the next year. And that's exactly why it's so important, and I'm really very optimistic because it's a lot of failure to continue working on the people concerned, on average have 1 800 € net income, for their families to be able to pay the rents for their apartments to buy food than if they're getting 900 € unemployment money per month. And that's why I really ask you to be a bit sensitive here. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Last sentence: The building economy package has not been created to save the Alpine! I can't do that! They've built up 3 billion liabilities. This was started by Austrian owners who sold the whole box to the Spaniards in 2010 who have continued to make a corresponding minus – and now we have this on the table to solve it. How to save an Alpine with an economic package of €1.5 billion, a company with 3 billion liabilities?- Oh, my God! I can't do that! But the goal is that these workers from the Alpine, from the subcontractors, will have a chance to find a new job in the future. And that must be our common goal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7175	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7197	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Muchitsch, who, as a worker representative, is certainly a specialist in the construction industry, has said a lot here. I would just like to add one more thing: thanks to those companies and those federal leaders who want to do everything they can to take over jobs that will be taken over by employees. What Mr Muchitsch said, of course, after the construction sites have been completed, this must be our absolute goal. I also believe that it was so quiet, as Mr Muchich has said, because sometime in this House there is consensus on the need for us to put workers first. I think we can pull a line there. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to address a few previous speakers, first of all Mr Grosz, who is not in the Chamber at the moment. He has submitted nine applications at a speed to give us the test stand. Mr Grosz, you didn't take care of one of them: They call for 100 million for the development of childcare facilities for the next four years. We have decided last time here 80 million for the extension of childcare facilities for the next two years, with a new Article 15a agreement with the countries. So I think we've done something here and done our homework! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to refer to what Mr Rossmann said, and he is not in the room right now. I am actually sorry that you are giving your views to the best and then disappearing right away. Because if it is serious for us to talk about these points, if it is serious for us to talk about the discharge of the people in Austria, then we should give it to the end. For example, Mr Klubobmann Bucher is one who always makes his speech to a urgent one and then disappears from the House again. I would like to refer to what Mr Rossmann said on the subject of capital taxes. It is always said here that we do not have capital taxes in Austria, because we do not have an asset tax law or because we do not have an inheritance and gift tax law. We are very likely to have capital taxes in Austria. We have the basic income tax. We have the basic tax, which is due annually. We've introduced a stock exchange. We have a savings-book income tax, already at the first euro interest. We have introduced a real estate income tax for real estate sold, and a redeployment tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] Mr Rossmann, I do not know from what you know about these things that we do not have capital taxes in Austria. I would also like to stress here: A SPÖ Finance Minister abolished an asset tax of 80 percent in 1994. We do not know exactly what these concepts look like, whether there should be an exemption from operating assets, whether or not operating assets should be included. In fact, if operating assets are to be included in an asset tax which you have demanded and without concept here again and again, this means that we will have the following scenario with the companies: The companies will say, then I go to neighbouring abroad, there I can produce cheaper, I have cheaper labour costs, and I may not have this asset tax, which is required in Austria and which is intended to bring in billions. Again to the memory: The last inheritance and gift tax, which expired in 2008, has had a volume of € 140 million. This has not even brought in a fraction, not even 10 percent, or even 5 percent of what you are demanding all the time here, what a asset tax is to bring. What do we want? We should be put to the test today by Mr Grosz, but he is not there at all, he cannot know what I am now saying on his requests. What do we want? We want to relieve people, we want to relieve the families. And if it is always said here that €7 000 is tax-free per child and per year, that would be crazy, because that would not happen to those who do not pay a wage and income tax: Please, who pays most of the money into the tax bag? – Those who pay wage and income tax, because they pay exactly the same VAT as everyone else, they pay the mineral oil tax, they pay all other excise duties too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] And that is why we want to relieve those people who provide most of the tax benefits in this country. This will also help those who are socially weak. In Austria we have a 30 percent social rate, some other countries can only dream of, because we also help those who need very much help. Finally, I would like to say something on the subject of charging brakes as a honourable Member in Vienna; this too is a request from the BZÖ today. We are very likely for the fee brake, but I would like to say that we are equipped with a coalition partner who rules with the Greens in Vienna. In 2007, when the Valorisation Act was introduced, the Greens in Vienna said: It's not social, it's a prank! How can you do that?, and have accordingly voted against it. And today, where the greens with the reds lie in a coalition bed thick and fat inside in Vienna, the fees are exaggerating. Just a few examples: by 66.6 percent parking fees increased, by 33 percent the water charge increased, by 9.8 percent the gas price increased, with the garbage fee a plus of 6.3 percent. [[Calls to the Greens.]] And now at the Vienna lines, where the Greens are so important public transport: The annual map of 365 € now also wants to be in the other federal states where they are in the government are, trying to implement, but now, with 1. July, the individual ticket, the day ticket and the monthly card of this Valorization Act fall victim: 16.7 percent plus the single ticket and 12.9 percent plus the weekly ticket. There you can only say: If you were from the Greens, if you were in the government, you would keep it all the way you always demand it here, then you might be more successful, so it is not. We will certainly implement discharges for families and discharges for citizens. If you go along with us then you'll see that, that'll be your nail sample, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7305	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7326	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My colleague Unfortunately, Auer is not here right now, he complained that in Upper Austria the monument protection and the spatial order are so much opposed to the citizens. I think I need to help him a little bit on the jumps. As far as I am mindful, the ÖVP has been setting the head of state in Upper Austria since 1945. So they would have had opportunities and opportunities to defend themselves against it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr. Muchich! It is also perfectly clear to me that the Alpine could not have been saved, since there were certainly many management errors made, but if the framework conditions had been better in recent years and we would not have sent the money to Greece, to the ESM or elsewhere, the Austrian economy might be better there. But now on the subject of BZÖ. In one case, I am right to the BZÖ, and this is confirmed even by the European Union – Mrs Bundesminister, you have also signed these recommendations – as the EU Commission also says, namely that the labour factor is much too heavy for us and we are top-ranking here in the EU. They themselves are the ones who rightly point out over and over again that the entry tax rate is far too high, that we have not changed progression levels for years, many of which are seriously affected, especially in the small incomes sector, and which leads to people having less and less money in their pockets. Of course, this is against, but I can't do that by requiring additional taxes, as the SPÖ wants, but we finally have to do it – I don't get around asking it again and again – that we make our state slimmer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have to set up the state in such a way that it is for the 21st century. Century, ready for the next few years, and this is not about making only small reforms again and again, step by step, as you always say. It may be that one or the other gets hold of it, but that's a lot too little. If I look at the development, the European Union has given it to us: In the coming years, between 2012 and 2017, wage tax will rise by 30 percent, while sales tax, i.e. consumption tax, will only rise by 17 percent. And the development of income tax is even stagnant. This means that, probably, I assume, first of all, the individual entrepreneurs no longer have these merits they should have to survive, and secondly, through certain tax sugars for large businesses, the income tax no longer increases according to the wage tax. That means that there is an acute need for action. What do we do in the final effect? We also do increase the fees as it does red-green in Vienna again. It has already been mentioned by Mrs. Tamandl that the Vienna lines are now with 1. In July, the fees will be increased again. This will affect mainly the micro-incomes. Or example Tyrol: In Tyrol, for 15 years, a section of 1.8 kilometres of the Inntal motorway has been excluded from the Vignette obligation. With 1. It will now be introduced in December. This again affects the workers. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Economic forecasts are declining. This was clearly confirmed last Tuesday by Governor Novotny in the Financial Committee, and we will have problems with regard to the future budget. We still need – I will not end a speech in the near future without mentioning it – and certainly, a committee of inquiry on Hypo Alpe-Adria. In the meantime, not only the liberals see that this is an ÖVP scandal. I have heard with satisfaction that Wolfgang Kulterer has now gone to the public, and I quote what he said to "NEWS": [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] ‘The arguments for nationalization are ‘the biggest lie of the Second Republic’; Pröll did not help the Bank but ‘helped Bavaria’.’ Another quote from the Supervisory Board chief Herbert Liaunig, who said: “If a Federal Chancellor says that the bank will cost us seven billion euros, I can understand that a Southern European debtor says: What else am I to repay debt?" That's the way it is! Having with your behavior It ultimately caused serious damage to the State of Austria. [[Abg. Hornek: That's incredible what you're saying here!]] That's not incredible, that's the truth! [[Abg. Hornek: You don't believe that!]] After all, the ÖVP does not want to hear the truth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are used to this from Lower Austria: It is all poured and covered in Pröllistan! The former Vice-Chancellor Pröll has committed an act here, which is the largest scandal in the Second Republic. And that's gonna come up! [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] See that we can make an investigation committee! Then the truth will come to light.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7445	The request submitted by Mr Podgorschek is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7519	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7540	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Tamandl, you are talking about property tax, forgetting that part of the taxes you have listed are income taxes and not wealth taxes. And let us also say that Austria has the lowest share of capital taxes on the gross domestic product as a whole! We want, of course, the inheritance and gift tax so that we can relieve workers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Tamandl! Yes, fees are necessary, you have the equivalent, but I say to you one: Show us an ÖVP-run community with over 10,000 inhabitants who have less fees than Vienna! Get the evidence here! If you look at the list, you can see that it is not true in Graz – ÖVP-led vote! [[Abg. Grosz: Deputy Mayor!]] – twice as high garbage charges as in Vienna. You can look at different other areas, and you will see those in these communities have higher fees. [[Abg. Rädler: That was a shot in the knee!]] Take a look at the discharges already made in Vienna, for example with the Free Kindergarten! This means high savings for a family that are very likely. After all, it is just under €3,000 that a Vienna family saves itself in the year. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Muchich said today that the situation we are now having is a major issue with the increasing unemployment and the increasing number of company claims. Of course! Full respect for all efforts to save the jobs currently threatened by Alpine insolvency. Only: It should not be forgotten that this rising unemployment and these companies are also due to the fact that Austria as a whole is becoming less and less competitive. And this reduction in competitiveness is linked to the fact that, as the World Bank says, as does EUROSTAT and OECD, the long-term infrastructure, that the necessary reforms are not being made, Mrs Minister. Mrs Minister, this concerns many areas. First of all, a structural reform would at last be due in the case of taxes. Of course, we need an eco-social tax reform. Of course, we need a relief from the work factor and, of course, an ecological control. And that would probably have a double dividend: On the one hand, we are protecting the environment and on the other hand we are creating the jobs so necessary. That's exactly what we need now! Of course, there is also a lack of consistent implementation of climate and environmental policy in Austria. This is a serious mistake because, as we know, this is an area with very high growth rates. We already have 200 000 green jobs in Austria, and the chance that it will increase would be much higher. That's where investment has to be made! But this is not happening, Mrs Minister – just as it is in the large areas of education and research. The areas of education and research are particularly treated in a stepmotherly manner. Don't forget one, ladies and gentlemen: Of course, there is now a situation where acute action is being taken. But today's research, development and education are tomorrow's jobs. But that's where this government completely fails. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, this is something that needs to be dealt with much more consistently. There are huge construction sites in the traditional sense waiting for the next federal government. In the future, it will be precisely as the investment to be made. In summary, I would like to say quite clearly that small measures, with small actions, are not done with packages such as the current one in Weitem. That's a kind of drop on the hot stone. The major measures for the future are in fact still missing, and it is precisely there that you have to invest!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7615	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. 4 minutes of speaking time are left for you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7636	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Muchitsch, first of all, I should like to pay tribute to your speech and to your honest efforts to provide assistance to the workers affected by the pleite of the Alpine. We are here, of course, that is necessary and correct. But the question is: Why must there always be such mega-piles in order to correct errors in order to take action? Then: The statistics of the first half of 2013 or to this day – and the Alpine is not yet present – show 3,000 bankruptcys in Austria, 3,000 bankruptcys with 19,000 workers affected! So 5 000 at once at the Alpine, thank God, are at last moving, but 19 000 jobs that are lost, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, have not moved anything. And that is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. We really don't have to take out the big eye-catchers now. –, but They also have the responsibility to constantly try to help the Austrian economy and the Austrians with the help they now need at a difficult time. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Just as one has helped the banks that have speculated the money, the companies can expect to help them now. And if you are now boasting of having adopted this economic package – these €1.6 billion are now preferring things or infrastructure measures that have been postponed – then I can remind you that a year ago, in the savings package – that was in March 2012 – you still have a big reputation for postponing and removing construction projects at rail and road worth €2.8 billion. So €2.8 billion in investments for the construction industry and for the suppliers you deleted last year, and now you return these areas to 1.6 billion, and you should still be grateful for that. So if we, ladies and gentlemen, are talking about a mogel pack, then that is quite justified. At least €2.8 billion will be returned to these companies, which you have completely deprived of the Austrian economy, because the larger construction companies are, of course, dependent on public contracts. And now it would really be time to take honest measures and not to place such placebos here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is these small and medium-sized enterprises that are at our heart. This is the foundation of the Austrian economy – the foundation of the creation of jobs, too; for, ladies and gentlemen, these small businesses are often trying to save the company through a wave valley with their own money, private money, which has been created by the economic situation, and which does not open up the labour force, as some large businesses do with their temporary workers. These entrepreneurs need the support of policies, even if they are not large numbers. But a thousand farms, each with ten employees, are as well organized as now for 5,000 people employed in the Alpine. One is important, but the other is done the same way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this request and with this special meeting, we have also tried to highlight precisely these aspects. Mr Cap, it is not the case that the flat tax now benefits the millionaires and the small ones are thrown out. You know very well that there are allowances for those who do not already pay taxes. It would once be an interesting measure – the entrepreneur has a flat tax of 25 percent, but from the first euro profit – that there would be such a free amount for small businesses as for employees for income tax, so that no corporate tax would be payable for the first 10 000 € annual profit. This would also be a sensible and quickly feasible measure. The unit tax rate of 25 percent was a relief for everyone – for everyone! – the money would be invested in the purchasing power and thus the economy would be stimulated. A system that is possible to raise taxes and taxes, also with the support of the Greens in Styria and Vienna, that people are thrown back and then returned to them a small part, as now in the infrastructure, of administration, which is the wrong way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want administrative savings. We want to strengthen purchasing power by reducing taxes and we want to promote the economy and, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises. This is necessary in the sense of our jobs!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7735	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7757	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Just as the Federal Government and all above all our Federal Chancellor has quickly and target-orientedly implemented the second economic package, thus preventing economic downturn and reducing the explosion of unemployment numbers, this package of measures with economic impulses is equally important now. With this very important step, the solution competence of this Federal Government is demonstrated. I would particularly like to highlight the housing offensive contained in this economic package. I would have been very pleased – and I think it would have been important – if we had had a previous debate on housing if it had happened publicly and it would not have required this difficult economic situation to enter a residential discourse. But better late than never! It is certainly undisputed that there is an additional need for sedentary apartments. The rental prices – especially in the private housing market – are no longer manageable for large sections of the population. However, Mr Strache has claimed that the rental prices in the supported rental area are not palatable. I would like to follow up with Mr Rossmann's statement that this is a "unfurnished of the special class" because that is simply not true. If we look at the figures in which rent prices have increased over a period of ten years, we see that they have risen in the private rental area by 45 percent, whereas in the social housing area, they have only been increased according to inflation. There are not these horrendous prices. It is not true that no more apartments can be found for people who earn on average, who are sedentary and can be found. Perhaps there is also a word about the fees that are lifted in each municipality in connection with the benefits provided and also about the financialability of the provision of general care. If you have not believed it before the colleague Lichtenecker, perhaps another example, which, I think, is very urgent and drastic: In Vienna, €4.24 is required for emptying a waste container of 120 litres, in Bregenz €10, in Klagenfurt €9.20 and in Graz €8.97. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: In Eisenstadt 7 €, in St. Pölten 8 €!]] This list could continue further. I think that serves to find the truth, and I wanted to have said that again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I have mentioned earlier that rental prices have increased in particular on the private housing market, and as rent restrictions and a housing offensive are absolutely necessary. These financial resources are essentially also intended to relieve this area. If € 276 million is planned for 2014 to relieve public housing, these funds may be retrieved from the countries under certain conditions. And experts say that up to 14,000 apartments can be created in addition. It is also possible to mobilise €75 million in addition to the amendment of the corporate tax law. These are 500 apartments that could be completely built, for example, or 5,000 apartments that could be built as usual by this tenth co-financing. It is, I believe, also clear that this is a very job-intensive thing. Each apartment that is built creates or ensures an average of four construction and construction jobs. When the apartments become scarce, the rental prices increase. Only if 10 percent less housing funds are promised, 1 percent of rent price increases will be recorded in the long term, 2 percent, and over a longer period including inflation, it would be 4 percent. So this has a huge impact on the private housing market. It is also very important in this area that transparent and comprehensible rental contracts are available. So a sufficient supply of housing and transparent rental contracts, which are concluded in the private housing market, would be necessary. And when public funding flows into non-profit housing, these funds also remain in the housing cycle and guarantee long-term rents. The challenges are great. The Federal Government's economic policy measures are an important measure to promote sustainable living and to create new jobs and sustainable housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7801	There are no more words available. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall now proceed to the votes. Debates of the European Parliament Enough promised – taxes and fees down! Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign. – The request is rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Josef Bucher, Mr Ursula Haubner and others on the extension of childcare facilities. If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – He finds no majority and is therefore rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bucher, Mrs Colleagues, on Federal Anti-Fraud Law. I'm asking for your supportive sign. – The request is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues, on the promotion of the transition to natural gas. Whoever supports this, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Bucher, Mrs Colleagues, on the re-establishment of the commitment to housing aid. I'm asking for your supportive sign. – The request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues, on the strengthening of the Federal Competition Authority and on the increase in fines under antitrust law. I'm asking for your supportive sign. – The request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Bucher, Mr Ursula Haubner and others, on the introduction of family allowances. I'm asking for your conciliatory sign. – The request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues, on the subject of 'genuine pay' for excessive fees. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – It does not find a majority. The application is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Bucher, Mr Ursula Haubner and others on the introduction of an exemption of €7 000 per child. If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – The request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gartelgruber, colleagues on non-re-introduction of vignette control from 1. ==References====External links== Please have a sign. – The request is rejected. [[15:00:03]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e7988	We are now coming to the brief debate on the request of the honourable Members. Steinhauser, Grosz, Dr. Fichtenbauer, the Justice Committee for Reporting on Application 17/A concerning the modification of the Criminal Code, a period of time to 2. ==References== After this debate, the vote on the request for a deadline will take place. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, the first speaker for reasons of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Government or by notifying State Secretarys shall not take more than 10 minutes. First of all, I should like to speak to Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e8022	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners via ORF III and live streams! We are discussing today a deadline application for the Mafia paragraph. For the spectators, who are not insiders: What is a deadline application? – A deadline request is intended to ensure that an agenda item is discussed at the next meeting – in this case the Mafia paragraph in July session. Ladies and gentlemen, the mafia paragraph has been introduced in the 1990s. At that time, people's dealers, gun sliders, money-washers were in the eye. If one hears signs that people merchants strike around in the refugee camps in Asia and Africa and choose women who then lure them into Western Europe under false promises and lead the forced prostitution there, then it is clear that the rule of law needs a reaction to such behaviour. The mafia paragraph, however, has come into the debate above all because it was used five years ago in a trial against animal protectionists – not against human traffickingrs, not against gun sliders and not against money-laundering. No, it was used against animal protectionists who wanted to enforce their concerns with civil society actions. [[Abg. Scheibner: Civil society, well!]] The Procuratorate then determined after this section. We made a request at the time – and that is exactly the one that is to be set a deadline today, five years later – with which we want to clarify these mafia paragraphs so that they cannot be used abusively against civil society organisations. At the time, we have proposed that there should be a clarification that future profit-making and enrichment-seeking should be at the heart of the future, because that is precisely the essence of organised crime. This is the goal of organised crime. This intensification in the facts would have ensured that misuse of this sharp instrument is not possible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There was the ongoing procedure at the time, and it was agreed with the Minister of Justice that there should be an evaluation, an evaluation by a university professor, Professor Reindl-Krauskopf. This evaluation was presented to Parliament in the summer of 2012. It has 140 pages, is very comprehensive, very interesting to read. [[The speaker shows a document.]] The content can be summarized as follows: In this evaluation, Professor Reindl-Krauskopf concludes that so-called Mafia-Paragraph 278a is urgently in need of reform. Professor Reindl-Krauskopf makes three or four different proposals. She says that one could either abolish § 278a or innovation in three points. The Minister of Justice has subsequently sent this evaluation to Parliament and has also sent a letter of support, in which she makes a clear statement, on 19 November. ==References== She says: I intend to comply with the proposal from the scientific evaluation of § 278a and to send a draft of its amendment to the general review in summer. - Quote. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Justice's promise is that § 278a will be changed exactly in the sense of the evaluation. However, the evaluation has made similar proposals and the same as my request, which is being made today, namely that the part that says if an organisation is an objective to exert significant influence on politics and the economy is erased. It is precisely this part that is the dangerous invitation to use the paragraphs abusively, and with the change one would focus precisely on the enrichment intention of the criminal organization. Mrs Reindl-Krauskopf proposed that. The Minister of Justice has promised us that she will forward this proposal to Parliament in the summer of 2012. There has been a consensus – that is very rare, one has to say – which has been reached by Mrs Justice Minister Karl over all five parliamentary parties of that time – ÖVP, Greens, SPÖ, FPÖ, BZÖ. But nothing is passing, and it has gradually built up new obstacles. Suddenly it has been said by the Minister of Justice that we still have to wait for the appeal procedure of the animal protection process, namely the judgment of the Supreme Court. This objection is not justified in fact, since one must know that in the animal protection proceedings that part concerning § 278a has become legally effective in the sense of an acquittal. That is, an amendment to § 278a in Parliament has no influence on the animal protection procedure because this section is no longer a subject there. It has already been found that § 278a is not to be applied. – That’s the first argument that doesn’t stand. There has then been a second argument that has appeared after the last judicial committee meeting. We discussed in detail in the Committee on Justice. There again, in principle and in fact, everyone regrets that the paragraph has not yet been changed – these are bizarre debates, they all say they are in favour, but they cannot agree. In the Committee on Justice, too, it has been suggested that it should be accepted, but it is necessary to take into account legitimate interests in agriculture. Now one has to say that agriculture has no specific interests in the section on criminal organizations. I understand that if agriculture has legitimate interests in sugar beet cultivation, in the wine sector, in livestock farming. All of this can be discussed, as one can be of different opinion, that is democracy. However, there cannot be specific interests of agriculture in a criminal law section. That is not allowed. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is pure client policy!]] The criminal laws are still made by the Minister of Justice and by the judicial politicians, and not by stakeholders who, however, cannot have the slightest link between their representation and this criminal section. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: The revenge campaign of the bee murderers!]] The problem was: I would have negotiated with the representatives of agriculture – although it is strange that criminal laws should be negotiated with agricultural representatives, but in order to reach the goal, I would have done so too – but I did not find anyone who wanted to negotiate. Every agricultural representative you spoke to has said: Well, I actually see that you have to change that, it's not me who's crossing. – However, it has been confirmed over and over again that somewhere in the area of the peasantry is said to be someone against the change. I wanted to make myself look for the anonymous farmer's federal official, I didn't find him. In any case, it is not my wine grower, who does not know himself with § 278a, he has confirmed that to me. [[Abg. Steibl: I thought the greens were just drinking water!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I'm going to find that official either, because now Farmerbundobmann has Auer publicly said that the reform of § 278a should not fail. I say quite honestly, that's an announcement that I'm glad to hear. With this I give up the search for the anonymous farmer's federal official, note that there is a commitment in the Farmers' Federation to change these paragraphs. I have also heard – and this also with joy – that the Austrian People's Party and Social Democracy have today tabled an amendment in the session to change § 278a. That's nice. We could have made this also through a deadline request and could have changed my request in a consistent way. If you want to go another way, I'm right. There are many ways to reason. If the ÖVP goes one of them, I think it's good. [[Abg. Grill: We hope you do!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e8152	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e8173	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Steinhauser just mentioned: We have previously submitted an application which amends § 278a to the condition that in the future significant influence on politics or economy is no longer contained in the provision. That is to say, it falls away from that part of the section, which allows, for example, the public prosecutor's office in Wiener Neustadt to determine against NGOs after this provision. No one wanted that. There was also agreement in the Committee on Justice on this matter. In the meantime, there have also been further discussions that have served to clarify and it has been shown that no one really wants this application of this section. I would like to thank all those who have participated here very much for the fact that we have finally achieved an overall good solution. [[Abg. Grosz: Ikrath, of course!]] Ikrath, we did this. Sometimes it is seen that something is secreted into a provision, which does not in itself produce. If the emotionality is then removed and the materiality deviates, this will ultimately result in agreement. I am delighted and, as I have said, would like to thank once again all those who have contributed their part in bringing this solution – I hope – to be achieved unanimously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e8208	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e8239	Mr President. My dear fellow Members! I have already said in the Committee on Justice that, according to Max Weber, policy is drilling hard boards. A football expert, Professor Schneckerl Prohaska, usually expresses the same thing differently. He says the match's only finished with the end doll, and you just give up one letter. Such findings are sometimes quite appropriate to characterise parliamentarism, for example, this time the intensive effort to adapt § 278a accordingly. In the last judicial committee, I regret that we have failed to reach a common solution. [[Abg. Grosz: Why?]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Why don't you just stand by?]] But now we have the opportunity to do so. That is why I am now bringing forward the amendment by Mr Jarolim, which has already been announced by Mr Steinhauser and which has been mentioned by Mr Mag. Ikrath, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues on a federal law that amends the criminal code include: ‘In Section 278a, the Z 2 does not allow for a turning ‘or a major influence on politics or economy’. We are therefore following a recommendation given by Professor Susanne Reindl-Krauskopf in the evaluation commissioned by the National Council, and restricting the situation to the core area of organised crime. I suggest to the judicial authorities that a brief judicial committee meeting be held on 3 March. In order to meet our demand for a genuinely quality-free treatment of this request, it is to be carried out at 8 a.m. on July 8. I therefore call on everyone to support the decision on this subject. Finally, I would like to say that I personally am very pleased that, in recent days, intensive discussions with all those involved have succeeded in removing all existing concerns – and the concerns were serious – and finding a broad consensus. I would also like to thank all those who have contributed, as well on behalf of Mr Jarolim. I am particularly grateful to the club members, with whom they have been able to cope successfully with this innovation issue. Finally, I would like to say to those in the economy and agriculture who have had the legitimate concern that they might become victims of illegal attacks of radical groups – and I would like to repeat this here again – that there are sufficient, comprehensive criminal offences such as dangerous threat, need, damage, burglary, house peace break et cetera. Thus, if such occurrences, such unlawful acts are committed, we do not need § 278a, but criminal law is equipped with sufficient possibilities and instruments of the sanction.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e8289	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e8311	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! All of us as interested representatives are subject to the opinion of the University of Vienna by Professor Dr. Reindl-Krauskopf and Mr. Assistant Dr. Salimi on the concept of the criminal organisation in the § 278a Criminal Code in the scope of 137 pages. With regard to this opinion, a sentence that I will also quote afterwards describes very well, in short and concise, which would represent the responsibility of the Federal legislator in this regard. I quote my esteemed colleague Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, who said in summary here that you should not change a right tool just because it was misappropriated. – Put on the standard means that a misappropriated standard is not in itself wrong, ladies and gentlemen. One thing, however, is clear, estimated Ladies and gentlemen: It is undisputed, especially in view of the complaining procedure in Wiener Neustadt, that we have here a section in front of us, which is to be carried out immediately due to the possibility of absurd application of a repair. I think that this immediate repair would have required immediate approval from the appropriate judicial committee. She could have received this approval too, but as we all heard today, the Farmers' Association – and this must be broken down on the tongue: the Farmers' Federation – would not have crossed against a repair of the Mafia paragraph, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I do not understand in the current debate, too, Mr Steinhauser, who, with her announcement policy of the ÖVP, wants to reach an agreement next week, says that there will already be an agreement with the ÖVP, since the farmers' association has now given a clear opinion. In addition, you have not read the summary page of the opinion correctly, for Mrs Universitätsprofessor Reindl-Krauskopf has not recommended that the Mafia paragraph be abolished, but she has not recommended the abolition of just an estimated colleague, Steinhauser. Furthermore, I do not understand the access of the ÖVP, which now wants to convene a judicial committee for next Wednesday. What prevents you, ladies and gentlemen, from accepting the proposal for a deadline from the government parties SPÖ and ÖVP? With this deadline, we would have the subject-matter automatically next week at the plenary session on the agenda. And in this plenary session, you could come with your amendment and thus contribute to a correct formulation of the standard, ladies and gentlemen. On the contrary, I fear that the judicial committee now to be convened, from which the EIA announces that it would like to hold it on Wednesday, will only lead to the possibility of further discussion and, in turn, to no solution. Ladies and gentlemen, the Federal legislator should be able to act responsibly to the extent that, in the event of the recognition of an incorrect standard or a standard inviting a wrong interpretation, he will correct this standard as soon as possible. We shouldn't talk about that. The Ministry of Justice did not have a 137-page opinion prepared for nothing. If, based on these facts, we are drawing on the three different approaches to solution, it must be an easy one to bring on these conclusions of the experts a corresponding correct solution in the sense of the legal certainty of the rule of law of Austria. In this sense, I would also like to ask the EIA to agree to the deadline proposal. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: What for?]] [[Abg. Grill: is in the Rules of Procedure!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not necessary to convene another committee, but it is therefore quite clearly necessary for this plenary session next week to provide a final solution to this matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e8372	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e8394	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, seers and seers! I would like to begin by saying that, as an animal protection speaker and also as an environmental spokesperson of the Greens, I am very much relieved that there is now a willingness to talk and that the blockade of the ÖVP, or the absolute will of the ÖVP, to stick to this inconvenient section, is finally broken. My previous speaker has now addressed the variants with which this regulation should take place. So I already agree with the more elegant version of Mr Steinhauser's request, which, in any case, has also made the initiative easy to agree with today and then decide to do so in Parliament next week. But we're not dealing with this sensitive thing now about any variants. In any case, we are going to participate because, for us today, the most important thing is that, if it is not already deleted, it will be changed at last, so that NGOs can no longer be affected by it. Because the message came here, the match is only after 90 minutes: It is also my parliamentary experience now that we have to fight for many things for a very long time, but I would like to remind you that it is very delicate in this case too. The application of this section also threatened existences in Austria. So the animal protectionists who were sitting on the dock that were charged by the Republic of Austria are on the verge of the financial ruin. We must also consider how long it took until, despite this unjust application, there was a willingness here in this House to change it. There is an evaluation that is now thank God – please? [[Abg. Grill: They were off the road illegally, these animal protectors!]] [[Abg. Grill: Provable!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] This is always the same, again allegations of illegality, and that's why you're at the mafia. So I don't understand now. Now, finally, there is the commitment to have a clear understanding here that animal welfare organisations are not mafia organisations. And now we're going to put some illegal stuff under it again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This evaluation has clearly shown that the Mafia paragraph is not to be applied to normal NGO activities. It is also our task as a parliamentarian to take evaluations seriously and to bring about the relevant legislative decisions. By the way, Mr Grillitsch: I don't really need an evaluation of this either, which tells me that an animal protection organisation, an environmental protection organisation or a human rights organisation, or any NGOs – that would apply to everyone – that's not an animal welfare issue, that's a NGO topic – is not a mafia, and that you can't apply these paragraphs there. [[Abg. Grill: The problem is that you feel mixed with law!]] [[Abg. Amon: You can't judge by feeling!]] Exercising significant influence on policy is the goal of every organisation, any citizen initiative, any NGOs. That's why it's going to be like this: Decisions to lead in the right direction. [[Call to the FPÖ: What is a NGO now?]] Nevertheless, there is now a willingness to bring this about. I think it's high time. I also thank all those who have been involved in it. It would also have been possible to include those who made the original requests – and I address Mr Steinhauser in this case – on the joint request. Nevertheless, we will take the decision. However, I would also like to thank all those who have been committed to animal welfare in recent years, although there are these paragraphs and this threat has arisen in Austria. I would also like to mention to the public that this threat to animal welfare is not yet out of the world, that we still need action. § 278a is from the world, but there are still vocations. The judgments say that the threat of campaigns is to be regarded as a necessity. I find that very worrying and very hard. It would apply to all environmental NGOs, animal protection NGOs, any NGOs. I think we should be very sensitive here in the light of the experience of recent years in this House, in the light of the inconvenient animal welfare process, to deal with and see how legal regulations can also be applicable in order to perhaps calm down votes. – This is my appeal for the future. A thank you to all those who have been working for animal welfare in recent years despite difficult conditions. I also think that we should consider, as a Republic, whether the people concerned should at last receive compensation. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] That would, I think, be the minimum that could be given to these people.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e8506	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e8528	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Members of the Austrian People's Party! What we have been able to observe in the last few weeks or days – even with your judicial authority, which you have performed here since the Justice Committee – is unique. I remember the meeting of the Committee on Justice last week, where Mr Glaser – I think he was – said: The ÖVP cannot agree with Mr Steinhauser's request, although it was already taken, even within the coalition parties, because there were significant criticisms from the Austrian Farmers' Federation concerning § 278a. Now we are experiencing that once again the request of Mr Steinhauser cannot be accepted, nor in the way of childhood, can we accept the proposal for a deadline which we have tabled today. But see – heureka! – finally, the insight is also taking place within the Austrian People's Party, and there is a joint request by Ikrath and Jarolim, who is in line with the request of the BZÖ, the Greens and the Freemans to finally reform this § 278a. Ladies and gentlemen! We are not only reforming it in the interests of the NGOs, we are also reforming it in your interest, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, for which party, who could most likely be judged according to the Mafia paragraph? There says: significant influence on politics or economy. I'm just saying, Telekom, Forum Land, advertising, Grasser, Strasser. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You benefit most from the fact that in the future, there will no longer be these mafia paragraphs, who would have you in total, as the Austrian People's Party, a legal control of criminal law. Please be glad! I don't understand why you have been unable to agree to this in the last few days. The fact is that the Vienna Neustadt process, the animal protection process, is a low point in Austrian judicial history, because this prosecutor is then still rewarded by the Austrian People's Party's Justice Policy with transportation, although he has completely misappropriated a paragraph, blamed himself and has not served our rule of law. That's what Mr Darmann is right about: The rule of law has been misappropriated, ladies and gentlemen. Injuriously, it was applied because it was not directed against organizations of crime but against animal welfare associations. The second point is – and I warn you today – that this amendment, which we now have on the basis of Ikrath and Jarolim's request, will not be able to definitely rule out the fact that this section will continue to be applied incorrectly in the future. I also say that to you, ladies and gentlemen. As long as we have prosecutors – and this is in the interest of the Austrian People's Party – who are misapplying § 278a and are now being promoted to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, although they have put in this blamage to justice, we do not send a good signal to justice regarding the proper implementation of our Austrian legal standards. We cannot prevent that. I'm proud of the step we're taking now. I am also proud of the uniform procedure of liberties, Greens and BZÖ, and of the fact that we are with our The proposal for a deadline today has finally brought movement into this matter, because you were not prepared by the Austrian People's Party to reform this § 278a before the National Council election, and therefore it is quite a good day. Whether you're putting the flag to the hat, whether you're successful – I think it's a success for all of us, because this legal standard is finally being tightened up, so that an abuse will be stopped in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e8579	There are no more words available. I'll close the debate. We come to the vote on the request, the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs to report on the motion 17/A by Mr Mag. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to amending the Criminal Code, a period of time until 2. ==References== Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – The request is rejected. [[15:30:30]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-06-27-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00211_d8e8612	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 2367/A(E) to 2370/A. Questions 15256/J to 15281/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 3:32 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
