ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00008_d7e352	The meeting was opened. As prevented, the Members of the Third President, Ing. Hofer, Hafenecker, Dr. Winter and Frank Stronach. [[22:24:10]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00008_d7e386	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00008_d7e1155	The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 29 October. January 2014, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. Before I close this meeting, I announce that the composition of the committees and other committee meetings that have just been elected will take place. Since these are non-public meetings, I would like to ask visitors and media representatives to leave the hall and the committee members and their representatives to stay in the meeting room. [[22:24:42]] Final address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00008_d7e1182	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not close this session yet, because it is a good tradition – and I do not hold you for long – that I wish you all the best before the end of the year and before the holidays, but above all, thank you on behalf of all of you all those who are particularly important to us. I would like to thank the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate very much – at the head of Parliamentary Director Dr. Harald Dossi, Vice Director Dr. Susanne Janistyn and Deputy Director Mag. Wintoniak. [[General condolences.]] I am very grateful to the staff of your clubs, at the head of your club directors. They do excellent work. Without this cooperation between the KDs and the Parliamentary Directorate, efficient work in this House would not be possible. Thank you very much to the club directors. [[General condolences.]] I would like to thank your parliamentary colleagues, who have also become indispensable and – let me say a critical word – where it would not be wrong to think about making a little more available to Members here than it is now. [[General condolences.]] Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Presidential Conference. We're newly thrown together if I can say so, and we're going to find ourselves well. We have already brought a few meetings behind us. I am very grateful to the Second President Karlheinz Kopf. I thank the Third President Norbert Hofer, and I would like to convey to him good wishes for recovery, including on behalf of all of you, and hope that everything has gone well and that he will be back soon. Of course, I also thank the clubmen. There are few who already have a presidential experience. Most of the club members are new to this function, and here too, in the best sense of the word, we will “assemble” ourselves. Thank you for the cooperation. [[General condolences.]] We are at the beginning of a legislative period, we are in the middle today with the presentation of the new Federal Government. Following this meeting, the Committees will be established. Many of the proposals are already in place, which are now, of course, allocated by me to the committees. I can promise you that we will All of us will work together to realize in the President's office what has been said in public, namely that we have a committee plan which is efficient, sustainable and planned, of course also a meeting schedule for the next six months, and that, I hear, the club directors are already on the right track, so that we can perhaps have a presidential tour before Christmas and the Members can already make their own plans in the new year. [[General acknowledgment]] At this point again a very warm thanks for that. I wish you nice holidays in the circle of your loved ones. Relax, slide well into the new year! See you soon. Good luck! That concludes this session.
