ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e3852	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 196. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocol of 193. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website The sitting and the official minutes of 195. Meeting of 21 March 1991 On 1 March 2013, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Board of Directors. As prevented, Members of the European Parliament are reported to be one of the Members of the European Parliament, Mr Praßl, Mr Mag. Schönegger, Singer, Steibl, Dr. Stummful, Ing. Hofer, Kunasek, Mag. Inlander, singer, Dr. Moser, Dr. Pirklhuber, Mag. Schwentner, Huber and Petzner. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e3883	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Beatrix Karl is represented by the Federal Minister for Science and Research Dr. Karlheinz Dägenle and the Federal Minister for Health Alois Stöger by the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Rudolf Hundstorfer. [[10:16:23]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e3925	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e4103	I also say that the Thirteenth report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e4124	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question submitted at the beginning of the sitting, which was raised by Dr Pilz, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for the Interior on the BMI's advisory paradise. The call for urgent request will take place at 1.15 p.m. The meeting will be held live on ORF 2 from 13.15 a.m. to 15.10 a.m. and on ORF III. Before interrupting the session, I would like to say once again that, during the part-session, from 10.30 a.m., the constitutions of committees will be carried out: Local VI: Information Committee, Committee, Health Committee; Local V: Economic and Industrial Committee, Budget Committee, Constitutional Committee; Local VIII: Committee on Sports, Research, Innovation and Technology, Science Committee. I am now interrupting the sitting until 1.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e4177	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[13:15:21]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Peter Pilz, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for the Interior on advisory paradise in the BMI (14346/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e4213	We come to the urgent discussion of the written question 14346/J. As it has now reached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5015	I give the floor to Mr Dr Pilz as the first questioner on the grounds of the question. You know, the speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5036	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, if you have already arrived, the others are still absent! We have today – and this is a joint statement by the opposition parties of the Freedom Party, BZÖ and our Greens – jointly invited us to a special meeting of the National Council because we want to discuss this Court of Auditors report publicly and because we have seen many Court of Auditors reports according to this Court of Auditors report, and this is exceptional! – cannot simply go to the agenda and not even to the agenda of an ÖVP-led Ministry of the Interior. [[the speaker shall keep such a person up to date]] But today something has happened, Madam President and Mrs Federal Minister, what we need to discuss beforehand: We learned about the APA a few hours ago that a response from the Minister of the Interior is to be found in the devastating Court of Auditors report. A report! [[Abg. List: Continue!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who created it?]] An opinion: Legal assessment of the Court of Auditors' audit results on award practice in the Ministry of the Interior, Univ. Prof. Dr. Aicher – whom I respect and value professionally, I would like to expressly say at this point – carried out on behalf of the BMI. This is the political culture in this House, at least as far as the Austrian People's Party is concerned: The Court of Auditors then calculates, in a way that is rare, the agreements of advisers in the Ministry of the Interior, and what does the Minister of the Interior do? – She is once again entering the budget and is tasked with another advisor to explain that it was not so bad – and this, ladies and gentlemen here in the House, is totally unacceptable! [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Mrs Innenminister, take note of the following: The Austrian Federal Constitution provides the Court of Auditors with the control body that you and your officials have to control. You can't choose who controls you. You can't go here and say: Well, I'll spend a few more €10,000, the Court of Auditors is in my mood, with a private opinion, I'll fix all of this again! – This is an unacceptable process! And, Mrs. Federal Minister, I have a single question: What did this report cost? [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] What did this report cost on taxpayers' money? How deeply did you get back into the tax money to apologise for indebtedness in the Ministry of the Interior? [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Now we're still on the subject: You know the Court of Auditors' allegations. More than € 1 million of consultant contracts awarded to the company Headquarters alone – there are still dozens of others – no invitations to tender, free-handed awards, no control, no performance control. If you and your predecessors have insisted that too much has been paid: Well, bad luck! The money's puss! And where there would have been more than €100 000 in procurement, ministers of the ÖVP have gone here and have broken it so long until each order was below €100 000 so that certain procedures do not have to be observed in the tender. Mrs. Federal Minister, you and your predecessors of the ÖVP in the Ministry of the Interior have deliberately bypassed laws, deliberately violated laws to provide you with advantages. Now the question is: Who are these people? Who is this so-called Ulmer network? Who is this so-called Kienpointner network? It doesn't start at the Ministry of the Interior. This begins in 1997 in the management of the Austrian People's Party. There the then Secretary-General, Mrs. Maria Rauch-Kallat, gets two promising talents: an ÖVP man from the military intelligence service HNA, who is stuck in his career and is looking for new tasks, and a unsuccessful poultry dealer from Burgenland. The HNA man who turns to the ÖVP is called Christoph Ulmer. The unsuccessful poultry dealer, who soon becomes a successful consultant, is called Alfonso Mensdorff-Pouilly. These two people are at the beginning of the development quite certain networks which have their center in the Ministry of the Interior, but reach the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture. And we want to discuss these with you today. Of course it's a miracle: I imagine Mensdorff-Pouilly driving his van through Burgenland, knocking everywhere and saying: I would have Hendl, also in pieces, and no one buys him anything. – A year later he is consultant: telecommunications, petrochemicals, military aviation – millions of orders. These are wonders of the company's start-up, as they are only possible in the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These are careers, as they are difficult to imagine outside the Austrian People's Party: from the Hendlflügel to the Eurofighter. This is not possible without ÖVP, and these picture book careers cost the Republic billions. Now comes the year 2000. In 2000, not only Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel takes over the Federal Government, but it is founded by a certain Mr. Kienpointner and a certain Mr. Malaun a company, the Headquarterer GmbH. Mr. Kienpointner is still the advertising treasure of Erwin Pröll. No poster where Erwin Pröll looks into the country that has not been designed by Kienpointner. Martin Malaun is the trustee of the ÖVP in Tirol, today the national managing director, and is active in many functions for the Tyrolean ÖVP. One of the linkages, in very certain other functions – after which we come back later – is called Johannes Rauch. There are consultative contracts. But the first advisory agreement is quite different, which is “TETRON” in 2004. The poultry seller is suddenly needed to help carry out one of the largest procurement projects in the Ministry of the Interior. Millions of people flow from ‘Motorola’, the head of the cabinet can suddenly be selected and takes over a mediation activity described in this Court of Auditors report. He's not taking any money from the Ministry of the Interior. He can only pay the fees. Kassieren does Mensdorff-Pouilly. I ask you, Madam Minister of the Interior, a first question which is not covered by the written questions: What have you done to clarify these obvious lubricating flows? Do you know who got the Mensdorff-Motorola lubrication money today? Do you know what role Christoph Ulmer plays? And if not, do you even want to know? Then it goes on. Then it's going to start with the first consulting contracts, because Kienpointner, Malaun and Ulmer see that there's money to get here. Then the devil is advised out, one counsel after another. It starts personally in 2004/2005 via Kienpointner. Then Headquarters GmbH will be introduced, and later other companies will be moved forward. And then something exciting begins. Then more and more orders will be awarded in the years 2009 to 2011. And in these years, there are elections that the ÖVP must lead. There is suddenly a campaign “Integration Platform” in 2008 – € 81 600. And suddenly, participating companies carry out election campaigns for the ÖVP in Lower Austria, in Vorarlberg. Then the year 2010 comes after the year 2009 has passed €52 000 for the campaign “Stay Clean – Youth OK”. In 2010 it will be elected in Vienna and Styria: Employment campaign “BPD Vienna” – 95 000 €, graphic design campaign “Top 100 Migrants” – 80 971 €, “Vereinungsyear 2011” – 40 207 €. The company Headquarters gets money everywhere and suddenly runs election campaigns in Vienna, Styria and before that the EU election campaign with the top candidate Ernst Strasser. – Madam Minister for the Interior, this is what I am now telling you as the functioner of the ÖVP: In order to be able to assess what happened, we need not only the documents from the Ministry of the Interior, but also the documents from the Austrian People's Party, because we need to know what really happened to this money. We know that the gentlemen of Headquarters GmbH were never professionally able to provide these consulting services. These are not specialized communication consultants. They have no commercial licenses as coaches, neither in the business nor in the personal field. They do not have the industrial and professional requirements, but they receive € 1 034,000 from the Ministry of the Interior from 2007 to 2012. I emphasize: €1034,000 for the ÖVP agency Headquarters, without the possibility to document corresponding services. Then more happens. Then Mr. Malaun at Headquarter GmbH advises the then Minister of the Interior Günther Platter, both Tyrolean ÖVP. What happened in the Tyrolean ÖVP election campaign? And we want to know what these agencies got from the ÖVP! At the expense of the Ministry of the Interior, has the ÖVP received friendship prizes for at least five elections? There must be an explanation of why the Ministry of the Interior is wasting money. There must be an explanation of why, in times when police are saved, there are too few personnel, too little equipment, suddenly money is available, possibly for hidden party funding of the Austrian People's Party. Not only do we have a right to know that, but all those to whom public security in this Republic is worth anything. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] But the gifts to Headquarters, Kienpointner, Malaun and Ulmer, who are suddenly managing director of Headquarters from 2009 onwards, are not limited to the Ministry of the Interior. In preparation for this urgent request and in preparation for this special meeting, we have once tried to see if there has been an infection of other ministries by the ÖVP Headquarter Bacillus. We find the first infection in the Ministry of Agriculture, which occurred in 2006: Suddenly, Minister of Agriculture Josef Pröll commissions the Kienpointner GmbH, title unclear – €22 000, and a concept of forest project – €12 000, and to the company Headquarterer various invoices – according to the Court of Auditors, € 109 111. For what? What is suddenly happening in the Ministry of Agriculture? Why do you also have orders to Headquarters? Then Josef Pröll turns to the Ministry of Finance – and suddenly there are orders to Kienpointner and Headquarters GmbH in the Ministry of Finance: “Creative services” by Günther Kienpointner amounting to €160 919, 2009 by Kienpointner GmbH for Finance Minister Pröll “conceptual and creative consulting of financial management”. You must imagine: In order to provide conceptual advice to the financial administration, the financial advisor of the head of the Lower Austrian state will take office. – What did he have to show about consulting services: The methods, how the Lower Austrian budget has been speculated, the way in Lower Austrian residential construction pots have been seized, and the way in which the Lower Austrian head of state managed to keep taxes away from the federal government? [[Call the ÖVP:Hello?- Oh, my God!]] [[Recent calls at the ÖVP:Na hello!]] Were these the creative consulting services of Kienpointner GmbH? Or what else was it? [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] It goes on: Advisory and creative services: 86 000, 56 000, 18 000 and so on. Bäckerstraße, 1010 Wien Points of interest in the area Josef Pröll will be Minister of Finance, must go and be replaced by Nikolaus Berlakovich. From now on, there are no fixed payments to this network Ulmer/Kienpointner/Malaun. It's over. Suddenly, there are payments to very different companies, which has been very busy with us in the Court of Auditors Committee, to sham companies of the Austrian Farmers' Federation. Suddenly hundreds of thousands of euros run to the sham companies of the Austrian Farmers' Federation, mainly but not exclusively at dubious addresses in Vienna. Whoever wants to, can read this in our Committee of Inquiry's report. With this result, well documented by facts, I would finally like to encounter a false image of the Austrian People's Party that the ÖVP is not a party that has a lubrication centre somewhere at the top. That's just not right! In the ÖVP each party has a central unit, and therefore it is so important that each ÖVP party has as much as possible a member of government as possible, otherwise only the other lot of tax money comes and could not be considered. It must be the farmers' association its minister, it must have ÖAAB its minister, it must have its minister, it must have Lower Austria its own minister, because Lower Austria is the most important federal government in the ÖVP, and, and, and. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] Everyone recruits themselves and says they also need a minister, they also need consulting contracts, they also have a sham company, they also want taxpayers to be diverted into their federal government, to their proposed organization, to their sham company. [[Abg. Clickovits: That's a nonsense!]] This is the ÖVP today a party that operates the same thing in many, many parts everywhere! - Good-bye, Mr. Kopf! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Head leaves the meeting room.]] I know when it comes to anti-corruption, the clubman of the Austrian People's Party leaves the hall. That's a familiar picture, that's nothing new in this republic. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] It surprises me that at all a few Members of the ÖVP sit here and are able to listen to this without saying: Actually, we have to do something about it! This is the point, Mrs. Mikl- Leitner, and the question we are asking is: Are you ready to break with this tradition? It's not just about possible offences, it's not just about the abuse of taxpayers' money, it's about the abused and abused future. It is about schools that are not built, it is about public transport, which cannot be financed, it is about nurses who are missing because in this Republic under the leadership of the ÖVP in the last 15 years so much money has disappeared in the channels of corruption. That is why I ask you, Mrs Bundesminister: Are you ready to break with this tradition? If so, we ask for an explanation on your part. You have also co-financed Headquarters projects. There is a project Strategy Development from 2009 to 2011 over 292,794 €. No one can tell us until today what strategies it is about; I suspect election strategies, from the Vienna election campaign to the EU-Strasser election campaign. In 2011, when you became a minister, there was still a sum open, and under your ministry it has been decided to make available to Headquarterer GmbH 132 643,06 €. At least in this context, you must be able to answer us: For what performance? For what? Have you checked whether Headquarters have actually received the laws and award guidelines according to this order? Mrs Bundesminister, I really do not want to make a preliminary ruling in this case, despite this incident with the opinion which sheds a very bad light on your reform and willingness to learn. In answering this urgent question, we will see whether you are the first Minister of the Public Health and Consumer Protection to conclude with a system of abuse, systematic abuse of tax funds on consulting contracts, whether you are willing to recover as much money from those responsible, and whether you are willing to break into the Ministry of the Interior as the first Minister of the Public Health and Consumer Protection with systematic ÖVP corruption. You can baptize it differently, you can say: We're making a new start without debt allocations! But I want a clear answer from you in the interest of taxpayers to these questions today. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5253	To answer the urgent question, Mrs Bundesminister für Innens Mag. Mikl's head of speech reported. While they should not exceed the speaking time of 20 minutes, 63 questions may not be answered. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5274	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at the audience gallery and in front of the TV screens! Let me hold on to some important things in advance. We, of course, welcome any objectively and objectively well-founded audit and audit by the Court of Auditors on the part of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. This is a matter of course for us, and I think it is very high on the Court of Auditors that he conducts his audits very comprehensively and precisely. For us, on the part of the Interior, the legality, economy and effectiveness of the procurement process are particularly important and have the highest priority. As mentioned by Mr Pilz today, a Court of Auditors report, a two-part Court of Auditors report, on the one hand, on the awarding of the Ministry of the Interior in general and on the other hand on digital radio in particular, and you may remember that I personally asked Mr Moser, President of the Court of Auditors, to carry out an examination. To this end, I would like to stress in general: All procurement transactions are based on three principles: first, the admissibility of award, second economic activity, economy and effectiveness, and third, the interest of internal security. How procurement works with us at the Ministry of the Interior, I would like to give you the following, to explain to you in detail how this looks in practice. In general, the six-eye principle applies to all procurements. How can you imagine this in practice? – A department shall report a procurement requirement. As a concrete example, the department that needs most procurements, namely Section II, the police. She's reporting the need for laser guns for the police. This requirement message then goes to the budget section in Section I, where it is examined in particular whether there is a budgetary coverage. If there is a budgetary cover, that is, there is a release, then the award procedure is carried out through Section IV. I am no doubt aware of the fact that there are three sections in each procurement and, of course, this is also a red tape, but this red tape is important to us in order to guarantee objective and transparent procurement in particular. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I introduced the procurement workflow at the Ministry of the Interior in mid-March. What does this procurement workflow mean? – In the Ministry of the Interior, it means 100 per cent transparency and 100 per cent traceability in each procurement process, at the push of a button. This, ladies and gentlemen, is only available in the Ministry of the Interior and in no other ministry! The Court of Auditors' criticism of past procurement. Due to the partly different legal views of the Court of Auditors and the Federal Ministry of the Interior, we have decided to order a legal opinion – no more and no less. There were different opinions, which is the reason why we have approached Professor Aicher, whom you, honourable Member Pilz, very much appreciate on the basis of his expertise. This legal opinion shows a differentiated view of the Court's findings. In the run-up to this legal opinion by Professor Aicher, I have sent you the Parliamentary Directorate, i.e. every parliamentary club already has this legal opinion. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: What did it cost?]] Yes, parts of the Court of Auditors report were confirmed in the legal opinion of Professor Aicher of the University of Vienna. Therefore, it is not surprising that we have already implemented 20 out of 27 recommendations from the Court of Auditors. However, it should also be stressed that parts of the Court of Auditors report are, of course, relativized by this legal opinion of the University of Vienna. On the one hand, the opinion states that the Court of Auditors – I quote – “uses an overarching interpretation of the contract law”. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: The Pröll’s Diction!]] Professor Aicher also notes that the Court of Auditors does not take sufficient account of the complexity of the procurement of the Ministry of the Interior. In addition, the University of Vienna rejects the Court of Auditors' claim that the appropriate price can only be achieved by obtaining binding comparative offers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Incredible!]] Finally, the legal opinion also states – that is particularly important to me – that the transparency of procurement operations in the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs is now ensured. So I can come to your questions and sum up the questions of the same content. On questions 1 to 9, 11 to 20, 23 to 27, 29 to 33, 35 to 39, 41 to 45, 47 to 51, 53 to 57, 60, 62 and 63 I may have been in principle again and have three criteria for the award practice. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They are not equal!]] Point one: What is the right to award? [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's incredible!]] Point two: What awardable procedure is best suited to the constitutional command of economic efficiency, effectiveness and sparingness? Point three: In the interests of internal security, what awardable procedure is required? As you know, especially in the field of internal security, only the competent and responsible internal establishment can assess whether, in individual cases, an exception is necessary and justified from the public tender. Contractual transactions do not lie – I emphasize: not! – in the power of decision of a ministerial cabinet. The Court of Auditors' holding in its present report refers to a situation based on linguistic uncertainty or on an inexact formulation. After an award procedure, only companies were entrusted with the provision of services, which were also authorised to do so. This was, of course, examined in accordance with the legal provisions. I expressly reject the presumption of party financing in conjunction with award-making procedures of the Ministry of the Interior with determination. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Have you checked this?]] All procurement operations are carried out within the legal framework condition as well as in compliance with the internal directives. In any case, the legal and economic possibility and expediency of competition have been examined and, of course, documented in accordance with contract law and in conformity with the law. Therefore, the award to the companies referred to in the urgent request was legally permissible and economically appropriate. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Ah?- Oh, my God!]] The Court of Auditors has used 59 cases from 2010 for a sample – the Federal Ministry of the Interior has to carry out the 95 000 procurement operations per year. The generalized statements made by the Court of Auditors on the award practice in the Federal Ministry of the Interior cannot be deduced from this non-representative sample. Also the criticism due to the approximately 20 specifically selected and audited cases from different financial years, which were presented on the basis of 12 cases, is only isolated and does not allow generalised conclusions on the procurement practice. Special conditions should be taken into account, in particular in the case of complex issues and sensitive strategic areas of public security. The Court of Auditors' criticism in many cases does not take into account the reasonable interpretation of the laws of the Ministry of the Interior. External orders were and will only be awarded if necessary, especially if specific expertise is not available and the view is needed from the outside. All procurements and services are documented and comprehensible. Of course, every order, and hence every payment, is an adequate counter-performance. Externally accompanied projects were the basis for important reforms and savings. From the internal strategy. For example, the government reform results in the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. The project BORA, the project Budgetary implementation, organisational and resource analysis, results from the electronic procurement workflow. In particular, expenditure in this concrete project totals €523,000 savings of €21.2 million. The Court of Auditors' finding that the Federal Ministry of the Interior does not carry out regular risk-oriented control of procurement operations is incorrect. Such control shall be carried out regularly. The Court of Auditors' finding that the Ministry of the Interior does not have an overview of its procurement volume is incorrect. The Federal Ministry of the Interior has monthly and annual records of its procurements. Furthermore, the records in the Elak are readily available, so that the Interior has all the records that enable the annual reporting obligations to be fulfilled in the WTO statistics. In this context, I would like to expressly refer again to the opinion of Professor Aicher, who essentially confirms the award decisions. You already have the opinion. Now on the other questions. Question 10: ==References====External links== ==References====External links== The subject of performance was strategy development such as conception, development and implementation of communication strategies in the fields of communication, Issues Management, Crisis Communication and Change Management. 248 315,52 € were paid. On question 21: This was to the company Unisys Österreich GmbH and ZACON Unternehmensberatung GmbH. I can answer your question 22 with a clear yes. On the question 28: This was the Fachhochschule Oberösterreich Forschung & Entwicklung GmbH. On question 34: AURA Unternehmensberatung GmbH. Now on Question 40, which has already been put to me in the Federal Council, concerning the official signature: In general, the following requirements shall apply: The Federal Ministry of the Interior and its subordinate authorities carry out around 1.5 million administrative procedural acts in the year. These include anonymizations, administrative penalties, steering surveys and reminders. ==References== In January 2011, the Internal Property was forced to enter into force. Why? – If the Ministry of the Interior had not chosen this procedure, the Republic of Austria would have suffered a damage of approximately €32 million a year. That is, it was done properly so that the Republic would not be harmed. The order was awarded to Raiffeisen Informatik Consulting GmbH. On question 46: That was Kapsch TraficCom AG. On question 52: This is the architect Christian Hochreiter, TBIA. On question 58: The choice of words ‘no specificity’ refers exclusively to the task of this provision of services in connection with the award of the digital radio and not to a repeated appointment of such advisory services. In this respect, there were no other such contacts in other procurement procedures. On question 59: The law firm Hule/Bachmayr-Heyda/Nordberg concluded framework agreements with a focus on consulting on complex civil and procurement issues. These legal advice services require high specialised knowledge. Since 2006, legal advice services have been provided amounting to € 263 118.80. On question 61: There are two orders from 2005/2006 amounting to €4 800 and €226.80. Let me conclude by saying: My experts always comply with the legal provisions and always comply with all procurement rules, here I do not allow a flat-rate condemnation! [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Strasser has already introduced the principle! That's what everyone learned from the streetman!]] Of course, we will continue to take account of the Court of Auditors' recommendations and, of course, will implement all the recommendations as far as possible. Today, too, I can use the opportunity and opportunity to say a thank you at this special meeting, a thank you to my experts in the House, that it has been possible in recent months to introduce the procurement workflow, but not only at the headquarters, but across Austria, that is, also in our country police departments. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who in particular?]] We thus guarantee 100% transparency at the push of a button, making ourselves a pioneer for all ministries, a pioneer for transparency here in this Republic. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5513	Mrs. Klub's chairman, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5537	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am here putting in sharpest protest against this strange way of selective response to the question. I would like to point out to you that we have already received very precise answers from other ministers. And it is the right of Members of this House to request and obtain information on each of the consulting contracts that you or your predecessors have commissioned. It is, I think, unique in history – I cannot remember anyway – that 30 questions are answered under one. [[Call: We've never had that before.]] [[Abg. Amon: There you have a bad memory!]] And it is, I believe, also comprehensible that such simple things as the necessary commercial rights for each individual project are simply to be answered with Yes or No. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, BZÖ and Team Stronach.]] I would therefore ask for a partsession to be suspended so that the Minister of the Interior can read the questions again, so that she can really answer them in detail, as it is under the Rules of Procedure of this House. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] Mrs Minister, you have claimed to comply with the laws, so I ask you to really comply with the Rules of Procedure in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5607	I am not going to interrupt the session now. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that it is not possible to examine from the Presidency, in particular, whether a question is answered correctly and comprehensively, and to ask for such an answer. [[Abg. May. Kogler: It's not answered at all!]] This is a subject that we regularly deal with, which we have already dealt with often in the presidential, and it is actually, as inadequate as it may be, right. [[Abg. Amon: Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig does not remember that!]] That's what I wanted to hold. We will certainly have the opportunity to talk about it again at the next presidential meeting. That would also mean that we should talk sometime about the extent to which we should not have to clarify the Rules of Procedure. Mr Klubobmann's head spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5671	Madam President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam President, first of all I would like to thank you very much for the very correct instruction given by my colleague Mr Glavischnig, which is what the Rules of Procedure are about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And I would like to thank the Minister for the very detailed answer to the many questions. [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] Only to get 63 questions together, it was obviously necessary to put one and the same matter into several questions. And if the Minister then summarizes these questions in the answer, this actually corresponds only to the content of the questions asked, which were many repetitions of previous questions. [[Call the Greens:Not answered!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today's urgent question is, as Mr Pilz has said, already at the border with the Farce, because there have been accusations which have not even been made by the Court of Auditors, allegations towards the People's Party with a choice of words, Madam President, which would have deserved a call for order, namely, corruption without any evidence, all in the protection of immunity. [[Call the Greens: What?]] That is certainly not necessary here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] To accuse others of criminal proceedings in this House under the protection of immunity is the worst parliamentary style that can only be imagined. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for the Interior has answered the questions in sufficient detail. The Rules of Procedure shall, of course, exempt any member of the Government from the way in which the questions are answered. They are to be answered, and I expressly note: You have been answered in detail and in full by the Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5748	Mr Klubobmann, if you use the word “teaching” in the direction of Mrs. Klubobmann’s president Dr. Glavischnig, I must also address you. Of course, each member of the government has to respond in detail and comprehensively, orally as well as in writing. [[Abg. Amon: The mushroom may say what he wants!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Not answered at all!]] The dilemma that we have and in which we find ourselves again and again is the examination and evaluation of whether the law text has been acted on accordingly or not. And this has always been a matter in the presidential, and if it were to be clarified differently or better, it would have to be reformed in the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Head: How do you want to do this?]] That is what I wanted to say in this context. Another word on business treatment: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5810	Madam President. I would like to join with the sharp protest and also draw attention to the fact that we are elected President of this House, and that is also why we are in a position to ensure that what we have in our business regulations is properly securitised. And if 63 questions formulated here are summarized in the answer, where not even the greatest creativity can be identified, then this is a violation of the sacred right of interpolation, which is regarded here as mandates for us. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: “Holy”?]] [[Abg. Großruck: That sounds almost Germanic: the “sacred right to interpolate”!]] I do not want to refer to what Mr Klubobmann Kopf said – that was a political opinion – but only to you with the request to take the interests of the House into account accordingly, here to defend the rights of the mandates, and then, if gross violations of the Uzances and the Rules of Procedure take place, not to argue here in coalitionary unity, but to stand behind the mandates and insist that these 63 issues, all of which are highly different in their entirety, be answered accordingly in order to ensure that the mandates receive their right. [[Congratulation with FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ]] I support the concern expressed by Mrs Klubobfrau Glavischnig after a partsession and holding a presidential to discuss this very case here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5868	Mr Grosz spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5903	The BZÖ supports the concern of club chairmen Glavischnig after an immediate interruption of the meeting, because – without you, Madam President, wanting to give you an instruction – it is not only about the breach of the right of interpolation towards the Members whom we now had to hear from the Minister of the Interior – it has not answered us questions, simple questions, their management and the authority, the Ministry of the Interior, but I have also taken with us today a series of written parliamentary questions, in which Mr Bucher and I have asked for information on the advisory agreements since 2008, but where we have not been called in the reply to figures or names. And these answers from you, Mrs. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner, and your predecessor are a disgrace to the right to interact with this House. We support the request for adjournment of the sitting, but we also call on you to ensure in the future that Members of this House can fulfil their duties. The task of our elected parliamentarians is to control the government, especially when the suspicion of corruption and malversation has been hardened, as is the case today, by the Court of Auditors – in the Ministry of the Interior under this EIA leadership.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5938	A further word on business management: Mr. Klubobmann Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5962	Thank you very much, Madam President. – There are huge accusations of corruption here today Space, and now there are two options: Either these accusations are voting, then clearly the Ministry of the Interior has a problem, or they are not voting, then I do not understand why these questions are not answered here, where, as we have already heard, Parliament is the control instrument to control the government. And if there are questions raised here and there are disagreements, it is strange that this is not cleared out. It would be very easy to answer the questions, if nothing was wrong. But if that is not the case, then there is a lot left in the room, namely that there may be something really about it and corruption is in play. And both of us are not doing well. You are not doing well, it does not work well for the interior, and Parliament is not doing well if we do not get through here with our intention to bring light into the matter. So, ultimately, damage. It is with your approach to the High House, democracy in general and the reputation of politics in particular. All of this cannot be good, and I therefore support the intention here to interrupt the session and finally bring in clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e5994	Again: I am not going to interrupt the session, but I have already announced that once again, in the forthcoming presidency, which will be held soon, it will be a very detailed discussion on this subject. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Well, if that requires three parties!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Four!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Cap wasn't yet!]] You know very well that there are no rules of procedure, which would allow me to intervene in the political assessment of whether the questions were answered or not. As far as written questions are concerned, there is the instrument for discussing responses to questions, which can and will be used. But, once again, all of this has to be reformed, which has not been done so far, I would like to say that again. Everything else will take place within the framework of the next presidency. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, each club has an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e6058	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Federal Minister, shame, shame, very shame! You have played a great chance to free yourself from the old loads of your predecessors and to leave the shadow of these ministers, who have the most responsibility for the points we have presented, to free themselves from and to argue about this old load by giving clear answers. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Mrs Bundesminister Mikl- Leitner, I can only say that is not only a pity but also unacceptable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It's unacceptable! And you have, unfortunately, already started your term of office as an interior minister with this old load. It's a shame that Mr Jarolim won't talk today. I would like to mention a request from him from 2011 because it has not been answered in a particularly impertinent way. This request was not addressed to you, but to your predecessor Fekter. Mr Jarolim, like many Members of Parliament, including FPÖ Members, BZÖ Members, asked many specific questions about procurement in the Ministry of the Interior. He wanted to know which companies received orders. There were a total of 40 companies he mentioned – some of these companies have already mentioned Collaborative Pilz. He also wanted to know what's going on with orders to Strasser, Ulmer, Krumel, Gattringer and Zach. So 2011, that was before the investigation committee. That was exactly when you were transferred to your office, Mrs. Federal Minister, you were then appointed Minister of the Interior in April, and you had the very ungrateful task of signing something that was ahead of your time and which you could hardly influence anymore, namely in the reply. You signed it. They have signed – the ‘enforceable contract’ – the following: “From the mention of exact amounts due to the general accessibility of replies to parliamentary questions on Parliament’s homepage in the interest of those concerned” – “the interested parties”, these are the companies, not the citizens, not the taxpayers, not those who have to make the money – “to be removed.” [[Abg. May. Kogler: But a transparency law!]] What does the Ministry of the Interior say? – You can't get an answer because companies' interests are at risk when we call concrete numbers and names. That's incredible! [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I admit, Mrs Federal Minister, it is not primarily your responsibility, but you have signed this answer. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But of transparency phasers all day!]] That was the work of your predecessor, which then gave you this writing, and you signed it. I admit, Mrs. Federal Minister, during your term of office, you have also set out in detail, at least for me, signs that you want to deal with otherwise. It is indeed incredible and unimaginable that Section I is responsible for the procurement, because you did not tell us that it is responsible for combating corruption and that it is also responsible for controlling the procurement. [[Cheerfulness with greens and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Very practical!]] And that's what you've changed, Mrs. Federal Minister: The revision, which is responsible for the control, has now passed into your direct responsibility. But this reform does not convince us yet. It is still not convincing when we know that the head of this Section I, which is responsible for procurement and corruption at the same time, is also the one who has been closely associated with this circle of friends around Strasser, Ulmer and so on, and who, of course, has also received his post as head of section through this circle of friends and through this all-eminent network of relations within certain circles of the ÖVP. - Okay, be it, Mrs. Federal Minister! Let's get to the core of the whole thing! What you have now tried quite massively to dementate – I will come back to it again – is the accusation of party funding. You can choose it, Mrs Federal Minister: either party financing or self-service shop, there is no third possibility. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Both!]] I would like to explain this to you now, Mrs Federal Minister, perhaps it has still not been sufficiently clearly explained. Since 2000, Headquarters has received orders from the Ministry of the Interior as one of many companies responsible for services. This company then said in a certain period of time: We also take on strategic advice on our designated experts in policy-strategic advice. Mr. Malaun has made this strategic consultation of the Head of Division, Mr. Kienpointner has made her, and then it officially stops. They have made this consultation partly under their own name, with their own companies. Headquarterer is a company, the company Kienpointner GmbH is a second, although Kienpointner is also at Headquarterer, and at Malaun it was similar. Not only did they provide strategic advice to the Minister of the Interior, but at the same time they also advised Mr Finanzminister – or before he was Minister of Agriculture – Pröll; also strategic-political. And about the time when the woman Marek had to wage a municipal council and country election campaign in 2010, Headquarters was also in the Ministry of Economic Affairs with an assignment. Since 2000, Headquarters has not only been active in the Ministry of the Interior since 2000, with increasing sums up to 2011, where one can no longer imagine what they have been so intensively consulting – because most of the “coal” has been spent for strategic advice – and Headquarters also worked at Pröll in the Ministry of Agriculture, at Pröll in the Ministry of Finance, headquarters or Kienpointner were working at Fekter in the Ministry of Finance. Headquarters, i.e. Kienpointner and Malaun, and others working in this network, were active in the Ministry of Defence; they also received orders there. So we already have some ministries – from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and now, I think, I have forgotten a ministry – where headquarters have gradually stretched out their tentacles like a crack and widened themselves to get orders there and tap off public funds. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it! But be “transparent! ”]] One thing is clear, Mrs. Federal Minister If you do it and at the same time – at the same time! – when these advisory agreements were made for the head of the department, an election campaign for the ÖVP in Lower Austria, in Styria, in Tirol, in Vienna, for the European elections across the country for Mr. Strasser, then the fun ceases, namely, when strategic-political advice is given to the head of the department and thus to Vice-Cancecian Pröll, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Finance and, and at the same time, to advise. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Black hole!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[Abg. Rädler: That's a premise!]] That's where the fun stops! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] What's that? Is that party funding now? [[Abg. Rädler: It's a fool!]] – “That’s stupid!” Yes, it was stupid from your side, not from the sides of those who criticize it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You are, Mr President, obviously still insolent enough to believe that this is the right thing to get into these cash registers. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Repay!]] No, that's not how it is! And that is exactly what the Court of Auditors has found. That is exactly what the Court of Auditors has criticized without addressing matters in terms of content. There is nothing in substance either, for one thing the Court of Auditors has also noted: there is no record of this strategic-political consultation either. This may have taken place – but whether and in what form the advice of the Headquarters has been given by the Headquarters company, this cannot even be documented. "To be understood," did I not hear this saying from you, Mrs. Federal Minister? “I can understand” everything. Not with you, Mrs. Federal Minister! It is not understandable, and you provide a long way – with “you” I mean your predecessors and officials – for the reason that you have to doubt. If an order of 99,99,99 € is awarded and then you claim to be over the private expert paid by you, it is an overarching interpretation of the contract law, then I tell you one: 99 99,99,99 € is 1 cent lower than the limit in which this free-handed award is no longer possible. Then Mr Amon says: Yeah, what can you do? It's just one cent lower. Can't do anything!° – But if you read the Court of Auditors report, you also, Mr Amon, know that the order was of course continued and that it was from the beginning the intention not to carry the order up to 99,99,99 €, but, of course, to pick it up. [[Abg. Amon: Do you know why? You've got to deal with this already!]] Mr Amon! Please explain to me why, in the reply to Mr Herbert von der FPÖ, for example, consulting services, which are included for a year in the answer to the question, are being reproduced for three years! “Booked” is in the request response inside, for 2009, 2010 and 2011. Book it! The advisory services have occurred in one year, totaling a total of € 169,262,40 for this one year of consulting services. – Why is this recorded for three years? Yes, of course, because of the threshold, Mr Amon! There is nothing to be done, Mr Amon. No, no, no! - Yeah, I know. [[Abg. Amon: You have to look at this!]] They also have a statement on this, but it is not enough for the Austrians, the taxpayers, and it is not enough for Parliament either, Mr Amon. It's too little for you to think about. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] I would like to believe that the Federal Minister is making serious efforts to stop this incredible and unique practice. Even with everything I've seen in recent years by your ministries, this award practice in the Ministry of the Interior is unique. [[towards ÖVP]] The Freunderlwerk, the mutual advantage of private contractors, is in this form only available in the Ministry of the Interior. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The suspicion of party financing or self-service is more than justified, Mr Amon, and it only affects the ÖVP. Unfortunately, the Minister of the Interior is also responsible for this, and she has not done so enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e6319	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e6341	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this issue is important in the interests of Austrians, in the interest of taxpayers. I do not understand a little if, in many discussions, when the President of the Court of Auditors is sitting here on the bank, I would like to thank and thank the whole House and commend the Court of Auditors, but if we have a Court of Auditors report as the basis for today's special meeting, we are actually partly discussing at a level that I think we are called together to stop those processes that appear in the Court of Auditors' report. [[Abg. May. Kogler: A counter-report!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since I assume that today most of the speakers will probably take the floor only with regard to the award procedures at the Ministry of the Interior, I would like to pick up a point, or else he will go under: The Court of Auditors report has two parts. One is the award practice in 2010, the second is the entire blue-light radio situation since the 2001 Council of Ministers lecture to the present day. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians have a right to know – I have also been an enthusiastic follower of this so-called digital radio – what came out of it when you look at what has happened since 2001, within the federal and federal states. In reality, calls have been repeated, where one did not even have a basis where one did not even know the number of transmitters, where one did not even know the height, whether that was enough for the helicopters or not. It was nevertheless written out and forgiven. Ladies and gentlemen! We also need consequences. [[Complementary by members of SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I have often been told that we need to see that we clearly separate the interdependence of officials or, if you wish, the special contract staff in the departments. If you look at this since 2001, then it must not happen that a person who becomes the head of the cabinet at Strasser, Mr Ulmer, grants a contract, then he can choose, and as a senior official he then administers it. I can't! It's an old story, but it doesn't have to happen anymore! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] We need to work together to ensure that something like that doesn't happen again. The person Ulmer draws like a red thread through this Court of Auditors report, ladies and gentlemen. There is nothing to do with bringing the discussion in a certain direction. I understand all of this, why this is argumented and debated, but I am concerned that such processes will no longer occur in the future, and I want to land again on the so-called blue-light topic – to strengthen the operational organisations if you want to. The citizens have long had a right to this radio function, because who, Leopold, is working on whether these organizations can or can't spark each other? [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Right!]] [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] We currently have, after 12 years, three federal states and two state capitals where this works. I already know that Mrs. Minister is now trying and doing everything that works quickly – no question! – but according to these experiences that we have gathered in the last twelve years, it must be clear that such processes have not lost anything in a modern administration or in a modern democracy! That's so simple. [[It was in favour of SPÖ as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I have often been told that I have a great affinity – just when you get out of the office – to the officials. But: Who will stop us from making it clear that in the future it is impossible for staff members to operate such a springing and springing shop, where they just want it to be stopped? We just need to do it. I'm sure the public registers this, I'm sure the taxpayers, if you want to, are waiting for people in our home country to see that consequences from these stories are also drawn. In this blue-light story alone, we have once paid 29.9 million so that we are not accused as a Republic or as a Ministry of the Interior. You have to let that break on your tongue! In fact, there were in the meantime additional costs of 340 million, total costs of 1.1 or 1.2 billion are expected. [[Abg. I know, it's me, it's her last wish.]] And the Austrians are still waiting in vain for it to work. It is primarily because of our politicians that we give the people of our home country the necessary framework conditions, the necessary security, so that rescue, fire brigade, police, federal army, whoever is, can help people quickly. I'll invite you to: Let us try to implement the necessary measures constructively! Then we made an important contribution to this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e6436	Mr Klubobmann's head is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e6457	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Question No 7 in this urgent question is: "In the course of the mandate, were the necessary commercial authorisation to carry out the services offered also examined? “ Question No 13 is: "In the course of the mandate, were the necessary commercial authorisation to carry out the services offered also examined? “ [[Abg. Vilimsky: From other projects!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Can't you read meaningfully? There's no such thing as that!]] The question 18 in this question is: "In the course of the mandate, were the necessary commercial authorisation to carry out the services offered also examined? “ Question 25 – You already guess, ladies and gentlemen – is: ‘In the course of the mandate, were the necessary commercial authorisation to carry out the services offered also verified?’ [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Question No 31, by Question No 37, by Question 43, by Question 49 and by Question No 55 have the same wording. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Answer! Answer me!]] And you are surprised that the woman minister summarizes the answer to these questions and gives the answer under one. You'll be surprised and echoed by it – artificial excitement, ladies and gentlemen, and unwarranted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: She didn't answer her!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Yes or No she didn't say!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Pilz House of Deputies took place on 11 November. A press conference was held on 1 March. At this press conference, he was very intensive in dealing with the Court of Auditors report, which took place on the same day, on 11 November. March, and he has, as eyewitnesses report, dealt with a subject in this press conference at two thirds of the time, namely the so-called Darabos comparison of the Eurofighter procurement contract and only in a smaller part of the press conference with procurement assignments of the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. May. Kogler: So what?- Oh, my God!]] A slug, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, a connection with today's urgent request and the country elections in Tyrol on 28 October. ==References== A bad man, ladies and gentlemen, who does that! And fungus is not a slug. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can still remember: In this comparison, Darabos reduced the number of Eurofighters originally bought to 15. He has cancelled operating equipment, he has reduced the purchase price by 250 million. The Court of Auditors notes, however, that this decision to go from 18 to 15 pieces does not involve any planning variant of the Federal Army, but was a sole decision of the SPÖ defense minister Norbert Darabos. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's incredible!]] The Court of Auditors, which we all appreciate, also notes that, contrary to the Federal Budget Act of the Federal Minister of Finance, there has been no such contribution to these negotiations as the federal financial procuratorship. The Court of Auditors also notes that the procedure in this comparison – even fungus has found all this – was extremely diletantic and that at the end of the day we pay for 15 instead of 18 Eurofighters by 370 million more than for 18. You have to let that break on your tongue! The Austrians' taxpayers' money! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In his press conference, Pilz rightly paid much more attention to this aspect of the Court of Auditors' report than to what we have a pressing question today. The Court of Auditors goes even further. It fears further acquisitions by undetermined terms, such as “almost new” or “adequate supply” or similar, contained in this comparison. He fears that we will suffer further damage from this comparison. [[Abg. May. Worm: On the matter!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The question here is: Who besides the supplier EADS has of this supposedly diletantic – supposedly dilettantic! – Deal also benefits? – The Republic of Austria was not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now to the question: Communication is a matter of trust, and it is therefore quite understandable that government members do not go around without further information and engage in sensitive areas of strategy advice, communication advice at all events, in the context of the political competitor. No, no, no, no, [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: But why?]] It is probably not a coincidence either, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and Mr Pilz, that your colleague Van der Bellen, University Commissioner of the City of Vienna, in Vienna has commissioned the former Green Candidate Niko Alm with his agency to design his homepage – out of tax funds! [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] No coincidence! I'm not gonna throw it in front of him, but it was certainly no coincidence that he didn't take a black or a red one. It is probably not a coincidence either, ladies and gentlemen, that the Ministry of Education and the Minister of Women, for example, the former VSStÖ candidate and parliamentary staff of MEPs Kuntzl, Dagmar Hemmer, commissioned her communication – at least 160 000 € – or the former SPÖ Head of Communications Dietmar Ecker about 230 000 €. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly not a coincidence! But I understand that one takes someone to whom one has confidence – when all these procurement procedures have been done: first, according to Professor Aicher, the price-adequateness has been verified; second, when awarding according to the principles of economy, effectiveness and economy. Then I do not propose this to the BMUKK or the BKA or to Mr Van der Bellen if this has been taken into account in all these cases, because, as I say, communication is a matter of trust and it is therefore quite understandable that not everyone wants to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last, ladies and gentlemen: The Ministry of the Interior will complete 15 000 procurement operations in the year. The Court of Auditors has taken 59 samples and has criticised one or the other. But the Court of Auditors, as I mean – and the Minister of the Interior has already said – has put forward a legal interpretation, and the Court of Auditors is not sakrosanct in its legal opinion. We all appreciate him, but it cannot be that there can be no other person in this House or anywhere else except the Court of Auditors' opinion! [[Abg. New builder: if you don't fit into the stuff!]] It is quite possible to represent a different legal opinion. Professor Aicher is of the legal opinion that it is legitimate, in individual cases, to proceed in sensitive cases according to the principle, of course, to examine the appropriate price and to show economy, effectiveness and sparingness, but not always to see the offer of comparison as the only comparative, the only compelling process in order to determine price proportionality. That's what Professor Aicher says. One important thing is that there has been no demonstrable damage to the Republic of Austria in all of these cases which the Court of Auditors has examined! This is what the Minister of the Interior said earlier, and I would like to stress it once again. This is in the direction of the Court of Auditors and, above all, in the direction of Mr Pilz. Now to you, Mr. Pilz: It is immense, without having any evidence to accuse the ÖVP of flat-rate corruption or corruption-like behavior. That's just because you're enjoying immunity here. The worst parliamentary style one can imagine is to raise allegations that are relevant to criminal law without being able to present any evidence. Shame! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: (uplifting from his place and keeping the Court of Auditors report in height) This is proof of corruption!]] One last thing, ladies and gentlemen: If it always leads to discussions that, in individual cases, the examination of price adequacy can also be different from those offered by comparison, because the matter is sensitive and confidential, as Professor Aicher claims – which all, as I do, seem to very much appreciate – then we have to talk about whether we do not necessarily have to make some legal change in order to save ourselves such discussions in the future or in order to save ourselves in the future that such things are misused by people like Mr Pilz in election times.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e6737	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e6759	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! At the outset, holding: Mrs. Mikl- Leitner, you have left a little the impression here of wanting to put a strange flea in our ears. You can't even say that otherwise. What you have done here with your answer can only be described as an affront. That was really an affront, an immeasurable one, as you have dealt with the questioning right of Members here. And you are also personally responsible for that. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] Respect Mr Pendl for his very, very open and correct words. Yes, it was important to address this openly once in a while. But also thanks for the material parts of the contribution of the clubman's head. I am only waiting for the urgent request from the ÖVP on this subject. It would be important to bring in a urgent urgency here to the Eurofighter so that we can also deal with these processes more closely. This would, of course, not only concern Darabos, but essentially also the ÖVP. Of course, it is important to highlight all these things, but today we are dealing with the area of internal affairs and the Court of Auditors' report. And, of course, you have to quote that, Mr. Kopf. The Court of Auditors' report, which I am now quoting, comes to a disastrous assessment of certain procurement operations and notes that there has not been a complete and reliable overview of the volume of procurement in the Ministry of the Interior. I quote: 'The volume of procurement to be reported to the European Commission in the case of supply and service contracts for 2010 included: 72 million EUR excl. USt and therefore reached the highest of all resorts.” There is already a need to assess what it is for, because it would be good if such high expenditure were to be incurred to maintain and guarantee the safety of the own population through a good equipment of the executive. If you insist that the money has flown anywhere else, then you have to critically light it up. For example, for rhetoric and communication orders by former Minister of the Interior Fekter. – A really cut rough diamond, rhetorically, one must say where obviously the taxpayers had to make a big contribution with € 110 000. I wonder where the extra value for the population can be seen in these consultative orders when it comes to concrete steps for the executive, namely, the safe and solid West, which it is waiting for in vain, which has not been purchased until today. To date, the executive, faced with increasing crime and violence on a daily basis, does not have sufficient vests of protection and thus no protection. By this, it is seen that the security funds have unfortunately not been spent in the proper way of God. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But this is probably all pure coincidence, not at all a method. No, no, no, It is also likely that more than 15 000 procurement cases of the majority, as the Court of Auditors points out, have been below € 100 000. This too is pure coincidence, not a method. 9999,99 – pure chance, no method! Yes Believe You really think that's what the citizens are buying you? The Court of Auditors also writes: ‘However, regular risk-oriented control of selected procurements was not carried out by the BMI.’ That’s what the Minister of the Interior and Mr. Kopf call ‘excellent formulation’. Ah, peacock! - What's overstretched? Well, you can define things that are not too high. What's overstretched by that? These are realities, these are facts! I quote: ‘In more than half of the procurement cases selected and reviewed by the RH in line with a risk-oriented approach, there were shortcomings in compliance with internal requirements.’ They call it “excellently formulated. ” - Oh, that's interesting! In particular, the Court of Auditors criticises the lack of comparative offers and price fairness reviews and insufficient documentation. – They call it ‘excellently formulated’. Yes, please, what's overstated about that? This could have been much more pointed, perhaps even to make it more apparent what was done by your responsible side. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All just chance, no method! – try to present it. And there you have to say: It's really hard to see how you're trying to twist things and show things differently. Or: The introduction of an electronic signature – which the colleague Oellinger has already shown – with the superior pricing of 99 999. There you can only say again: pure chance, no method! And: The Ulmer connection, which has already been addressed today – pure chance, no method! The fact that Ulmer worked for Strasser and Marek in the Vienna election campaign is also a coincidence. That with a volume of over € 1 million orders to the company Headquarters have been received, that is also pure coincidence, not a method. This continues in various ministries, as has already been pointed out today, from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Interior to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. – All pure coincidence, no method! Yes, you really can't do that, Mr. Kopf! And then you go here and say that it is actually tactical that the record is now in the Court of Auditors' report, that the Court of Auditors' report has included the record in the report for tactical reasons before the Tyrolean country elections. – I ask you: Do you really want to sell this to the citizens? So, please, it's not really any more senseless! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of Greens and BZÖ.]] Mr Platter, of course, appears in the Court of Auditors' report, and Mr Malaun, of course, is in it. It is true that today's head of state of Tyrol once had a responsibility here as a minister, also for several PR orders of over € 140 000 and more. The Court of Auditors did not include this in the Court of Auditors' report for tactical reasons before the Tyrolean elections, no, these are facts! And it is good and important to show these circumstances. If you look at the situation of the executive as a whole, you really have the doubts, and you wonder: Where are the money shifted? Perhaps directly or indirectly for the benefit of a party trying to gain an advantage with public funds?- Oh, my God! This must be pointed out, because where the money should be, it has not arrived, the 72 million, where one would have to expect it, namely in the equipment and optimization for the executive officials, so that they can stand in their day-to-day fight against crime. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Last year, there were 548 027 crimes in Austria. These are about 1 501 more crimes, four more crimes per day. Last year we had 62.5 crimes per hour, practically one crime per minute. These are serious statistics that sound very dry, but people outside are directly affected by this rising crime every day. And unfortunately, they must observe that staff are saved, that natural retirement exits are not re-occupied, there are too few trained executives and they are still abandoned. Finally, it is the citizens who stay on the track at the end because there are more and more burglaries and violent crimes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There's a stop. And this is the negative spiral that has consistently passed through under ÖVP Interior Ministers, with a completely missing reform, where one has tried to equal a city with the country, according to the principle: Vienna is just as organized as the countries, because there are the same or similar mechanisms of crime. I don't think so. We know that, especially in agglomerations, especially in Vienna, almost 40 percent of the crimes take place. And you have to evaluate it differently. There is a need to build structures other than those made in the framework of the reform. Today, we are unfortunately experiencing the negative results of the disgusting police reform under Minister of Interior Strasser. These things should be addressed openly, as it is necessary to make changes. Then: The officials are today the sufferers of the policy of the Interior Ministers, who have been responsible for this negative development in recent years. And you don't even have a genius to stand out here and defend that. That was rightly criticized here. You do not have the responsibility for your predecessors, but you have the responsibility for your actions, and you at least have had to answer this question as correctly as you can as Members not only expect it, but have a right to it. If you believe that you can act or act in this way, then democracy and parliamentarianism are a very bad service. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] Then you will not be able to detach the suspicion of corruption that exists correctly, and then you will not be able to eliminate the images about painting suspicions, about suspicions of dirty business practices, where friendly business has been built up in the Republic, where you have served each other and your friend has somehow provided company constructions with tax funds and orders – on the contrary! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Klubobmann Kopf, you have done a very, very bad service to your party today with what you have offered here.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e6930	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e6953	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have seen very well what happens when one quotes a Court of Auditors report and criticises one government partner, how the other government partner reacts to it. I would also like to thank Mr Pendl for speaking an open word about the practice of awarding in the Federal Government and also about the errors to be corrected. The shame for us parliamentarians is actually that we are being put into a situation where we are almost dependent on the two government partners to start to argue with each other so that we can get to some grossity at all. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Questions that we are asking have not been answered for a long time, as we have asked the questions, or as the questions are meant. Thankfully, every few years, a Court of Auditors report comes into the house, which enables us to discuss it. But it is embarrassing, Mrs. Federal Minister, how you behaved in the House today when you answered this urgent request from the Greens – a farce! We have been complaining for some time now that the Federal Government has no interest at all in giving us information on individual expenditure before the National Council elections in autumn. This is a white increase in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, a white increase in those governments in the House, which are actually here to control the Federal Government. This is a testimonie for Parliament. That should give us all to think! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, black Zunderkellerkruppe!]] And you are talking about the Court of Auditors' interpretation?- Oh, my God! You mean that's an overarching interpretation?- Oh, my God! Well, I'll tell you one thing: Just as you have been born on the government bank today or as the colleague head did at the speaker's desk earlier, this is not a superlative form of argumentation, but a superior kind of greed for power and the possession of power of the ÖVP. That's really it! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] The 26 or 27 years that you have now spent on the government bank by the ÖVP have already corrupted the ÖVP in such a way that it can no longer distinguish between right and wrong. That is your problem, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA. [[We welcome Mr Strache and Mr Mag. Kogler.]] I can still remember how we discussed the individual accusations to the Minister of State Strasser here in the House. We can still remember that. We have criticized him in connection with some of the rumors that have been spread there. But the representatives of the ÖVP have gone out here and defended Mr Strasser, defending him with words, often defending him here. When I look into the ranks of the ÖVP today and ask: If you know Mr Strasser, then the answer is: No, we don't know him. We never heard the name Strasser, he was never at the ÖVP! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The system, which has now been discovered by the Court of Auditors, concerning which Mr Grosz and I have already made questions before the Greens have taken action – you have quoted our question in your urgent question – has been established by Mr Strasser at the Ministry of the Interior. This is the system of Strasser, which Mr Ulmer has finally perfected as the head of the cabinet of Mr Strasser. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's how it looks!]] And you are still working with this system today, Mrs. Federal Minister. And that's the scandal! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You should finally consider that this country does not belong to Austria. You may have taken this attitude from Lower Austria. But Austria is the Austrian – and not the Austrian People's Party! That was finally clarified. [[I should like to congratulate the BZÖ and the Greens.]] You can't do and leave whatever you want in this country, and you can't do in our country on tax-payers' costs to drive and bypass procurement rights and abuse the award as you like. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I would have liked to hear a confession from you today, and I would have expected you to say it wasn't all right. But you allowed yourself to be caught up in the statement that there was an overarching formulation or interpretation of the Court of Auditors, and that shows what arrogance you live in the ÖVP, how you are without certainty now dealing with this country and with the money of taxpayers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Farmed in your own pocket!]] I am not talking about your colleague Fekter, who has done so in advance, but is always playing in here as the taxpayer of taxpayers. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] This is the nightmare for every taxpayer, this federal government behind me! Who You're acting in our country and wasting your money is legendary. And, of course, behind all these paintings is the presumption that there has been illegal party funding. Yes, how is this to be explained – this is a very simple question that you, Mrs. Federal Minister, can still comment on now – how do you explain that a certain Mr. Ulmer was selected in 2004 and has been awarded an advisory agreement for years to come? Do you argue that there have been security considerations on the part of the Ministry of the Interior? - That's in there somewhere: There are security reasons that make it easier for you to decide. Yes what security reasons – tell us this in here! – Is it still paid for by Mr Ulmer five to six years after leaving the ministry? [[Abg. May. Kogler: silent money!]] What are the reasons for security, Mrs. Inner Minister? - That's a simple question. I'd like to know that from you. But much more important, ladies and gentlemen, it is to draw the right conclusions from all these points of view and criticisms of the Court of Auditors and to ensure that we reform the right to award in our country. And you know, Mrs. Federal Minister, if I, even in tribal tables, have discussions with the citizens, I notice: What citizens do not understand is that government politicians can turn the right to award and turn as they want, but when it comes to public procurement, when there are public contracts – for roads, for tunnels and cetera – then in Austria we only have a limited to no way to influence. Many people in Austria do not understand that, for example, in Carinthia, too, foreign workers and companies have been employed in the construction of the Koralmbahn in Austria – where we had so many skilled tunnelers in Austria, who would like to have an employment there. But they have to go to Switzerland to work, they have to go to France to work in the Fréjus Tunnel. But at the Koralmbahn, where Austrian tax money is used, they get no employment. No one understands. There families are torn apart, there is the use of tax money to promote foreign companies and to employ foreign workers with us. Let us consider whether we do not need to change something under contract law, so that Austrian workers are primarily employed and bought bread, and not foreign companies! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It could also be argued by saying that at least a percentage of this should be allowed to deal with Austrian companies; but not to transport a hundred percent of tax money abroad! – We should think about it. I hope, Mrs Federal Minister, that you have recognised that there is a need for action now and that we need a reform. I do not expect any admission of any misbehavior, but I expect you to be willing to stop these circumventions that you have made and tolerated in the future from taking place in future and that we will also impose strict penalties on infringements of the right to award.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e7113	It is now Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e7176	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! - Well, did we calm down? [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls.]] - Wonderful! Self-service shop Interior Ministry, BMI, the Ministry of Money Absorbing – these words have fallen today, have also been used in the debate on the Court of Auditors report we are discussing today. And I can quite say that these terms are used rightly and have rightly been mentioned in the discussion. The report we are discussing here today covers more than 200 pages. On the one hand, it sheds light on the award practice of the Ministry of the Interior, on the other hand the blue light radio – we have already heard it in the previous versions. The report clearly shows that the Federal Ministry of the Interior spends more money on procurement than any other resort. In 2010, more than 15 000 procurement cases amounted to € 72 million, which were granted free of charge. What “freehand” means has already been explained today, and I will come back to this term later. And in 2011 services, infrastructure et cetera were purchased worth € 182 million. These figures, ladies and gentlemen, must be seen and really closer. There money is wasted, money is thrown out – and in the executive, with the police on the street, whose equipment lacks this money and would certainly be more sensible and better invested. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] There were hardly – or not at all – comparative offers. The previous speakers have already said that in part, Mr Pilz has also mentioned it in his explanatory statement. The boundaries have been lowered. The trick has been applied that if 100 000 € are to be granted free of charge, exactly 99,99,99 € have been spent, such as in the case of electronic signature. In this case, however, an amount of €427 661.53, ladies and gentlemen, was paid. The Court's figures speak for themselves. In the course of the debate, the Minister spoke in favour of her accepting the recommendations – of 27 recommendations already implemented, 20 she has mentioned them again today – but on the other hand, she says that the criticism is not correct, it is not right that she is overturned, and, as we have heard today, she has commissioned her own counter- opinion. You have not yet mentioned the costs of this consideration – at least I have not yet received it. The Pilz colleague addressed this question to you in the introduction. Perhaps you can make up for this later and tell us the costs of this consideration, Mrs Minister. I would like to speak briefly about the names and the network Pröll and Strasser, because this really draws itself – Mr Pendl has previously meant like a red thread, I mean, like a black thread – throughout the whole blue-light radio story. Mr Christoph Ulmer, former Chief of Cabinet of Ernst Strasser, was often addressed by the public and, in connection with the blue light radio, always comes negatively to the political stage. There has also been an investigative committee last year where this issue has been discussed in detail. But nothing came out. He can no longer remember much, and there are no records about the conversations. So there is a great need for information, ladies and gentlemen. We must carry out this information, and I really appeal, as some of my previous speakers have, to all of us here in the House, because we owe taxpayers this to do. And the Court of Auditors deserves recognition for its good work, for the control work it does for this House. He is the guardian of taxpayers and taxpayers. He looks at the money and sees to it that it is also properly spent. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for their work and also for this report. And I would also like to appeal to you again, Mrs Minister, that you take this report very seriously and participate in the education in the sense of taxpayers – and not simply wipe it out of the table. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Allow me to speak a few short words to Mr Spindelegger, who is not present at this debate today. In recent weeks, Mr Spindelegger has felt obliged to express himself in a number of other areas, to act as a schoolmaster and to tell Members what they have to do or not to do. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to me! Perhaps you will direct Mr Spindelegger to take care of his own party and return at the door of his own party. Then: If you look at what is going on in the Federal Ministry of the Interior in the award, what is going on with Berlakovich, the “inserator”, if you consider that ex-minister Strasser – although not yet legally, but in the first instance – was sentenced to four years of imprisonment that Mensdorff-Pouilly had been sentenced to a one-month imprisonment sentence, that against your former Minister of Smoking-Kallat the corruption-state prosecutor's office in connection with the purchase of the flu masks determined that in Innsbruck you had lost the citizens's most popular oppitz-plorers, no longer candidates for the EDP, that you had left Goldegger Mayor Hans Mayr in Salzburg and now is the top candidate for the team Stronach, then you can tell your lord that he should come at his own door and take care of order and cleanliness there. [[Abg. Head: Who is there now? – Why are you so schoolmasterly now?]] [[Abg. Amon: Mrs. Colleague, you know the saying with the glass house?]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Since we are already there, I may also finish by addressing a few words to two parties who like to preach water and drink wine – one more, the other less –: If you have accused me of the FPÖ or in the recent past also accused others of having made a party change, or whatever, then look into your own ranks! I think you have forgotten that you have three Members who were still on a different electoral list in 2008 and who did not register for the FPÖ. As far as the Greens are concerned – Mr Kogler is not here now – the Members of Parliament have been Christiane Brunner, whom I value extraordinarily and which I consider to be an enrichment here in the House, not always with the Greens, but before she was the councillor of the ÖVP. Or: Where was Mr. Van der Bellen before joining the Greens? Maybe he was a party member of the SPÖ? Mr. Pilz detto. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] So, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, you should leave the church here already in the village and come at its own door. I can tell you one more thing at the end: You should look at those who call out the loudest “Hold the thief! ”
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e7258	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e7287	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, seers and seers! Mr Kopf – he is not here right now – has accused us of having asked the same questions several times, and that is why we can sum up all of this. Yes, of course, there are similar questions in our request, but I think that if you read the request through it, you can very well see that it is different orders. And the very important thing is that in all these contracts the same questions must be asked, for example: Are the necessary commercial rights available or not? Mrs Minister, you could tell us, for example, whether there has been this commercial right even in one case. [[Abg. Amon: That was answered!]] [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: That was said!]] [[Abg. Amon: You must listen!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Mikl-Leiter: That was answered! - Listen!]] You have answered 30 questions under one, and you cannot tell me that you will receive an answer to every question in detail – to which we, as parliamentarians, have a right. And the public also has a right to know what it has to do with this award practice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another question that is open and where we and the public have a right to know the answer is what this opinion cost – an opinion that you have financed and with which you have more or less freed yourself from the criticism of the Court of Auditors. I think this is an incredible process. The Court of Auditors is a very, very valuable instrument in this House. As Members of Parliament, we have the opportunity to ask questions to control the government's duty and we have the Court of Auditors as an aid instrument. The Court of Auditors has had massive criticism. And who is to understand that you are funding an opinion yourself and then use this opinion as proof that what the Court of Auditors says is insufficient and that you can continue as before. I think the public at least has a right to know how much you have paid for this opinion. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] Today, however, we have heard different examples of awarding practices, and I think it is not about individual cases, it is not about individual ministries, it is not about individual levels – because as a municipal councillor in a community with absolute ÖVP majority, I am also well aware of dubious awarding practices – but rather about a system on which we meet in the ÖVP to a massive extent. I think that if you have a public office, you have a certain responsibility, you manage public funds, and you have to deal with these public funds in a serious and efficient way. The ÖVP's access is to go there and say: That's ours, and that's what we're distributing now! [[Abg. May. Kogler: “I sane!”]] – And this is happening at different levels. In my view, it is particularly bad in the case of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. It could already be demonstrated in the era Pröll that there have been awards of various advisory services to the company Headquarterer, to the company Kienpointner GmbH, where the question is already to be asked: How does an advertising agency advise the Ministry of Agriculture to a very large extent? I believe that this question is justified. This continues in the era of Berlakovich, where advisory services have been purchased by the company Heidi Glück media + public affairs consulting the former press spokesperson of Wolfgang Schüssel, apart from the various advertisements and the grants to the Farmers' Federation. It is therefore a system where close organizations are used: under Pröll the system Pröll and under Berlakovich the system Farmers' Federation. Our source to understand this is the Court of Auditors. And the Court of Auditors has criticised the fact that, very often in this ministry, there are fixed contracts for public work, without estimated labour costs, without the extent being defined, and that there is no control and no evidence of performance, and contracts are often concluded only in retrospect. Addressed to the ÖVP: It is very likely a massive damage to the Republic. It is our greatest duty as a Member of Parliament to control this, to show it and to bring it to the public, because it is public money. And I think if you don't think all these accusations are right, then you should be grateful for these questions, because this gives you the opportunity to get up and correct all of this. – You didn’t do that, so we suspect that our allegations are justified. We therefore continue to see it as our duty to control you massively in this regard and to inform the public. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that we need more public funds, especially in the Environment Ministry, when it comes to combating climate change or the energy transition. If funds are used for unnecessary expenses, then a massive, a great deal of damage arises. That is why I think Austria urgently needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e7396	Mrs Lueger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e7418	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the digital radio for a short time. I think you can remember why we said that digital radio should be realized at the time. It was – unfortunately – the avalanche accident in Galtür and the flood 2002 where it was proved that then the helping organizations could not communicate with each other. Mrs. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, this example is one of the most negative examples of procurement in your ministry, which the Court of Auditors has also taken up, and I think it is right. Already in 2002, he criticised the fact that there have been additional costs of € 340 million, and he also criticised the fact that full expansion, which should work in 2018, unfortunately – as my colleague Pendl has already mentioned – only works in three federal states and in two state capitals. I think it is your job to put an end to Mrs Minister, who, in the interests of the population as quickly as possible, also to the security of the population and also in the financial framework. The criticism points that relate to the procurement itself actually do not concern you, but your predecessor. You will have to listen to these accusations now. We are discussing today in particular the procurements made in 2010, with an extra € 72 million – without VAT – being added. And with that, your ministry is also at the forefront. What has not yet been said here: In the Federal Ministry of the Interior, €90 million is awarded by the Federal Award Office. And the € 72 million you freely granted in 2010 will be added. What is the real criticism point? – The Court of Auditors writes this very clearly and clearly in its report: 45 percent of the total orders are those you have awarded directly – with an order value below €100 000, there is also the possibility to do so – but these orders are also awarded directly. There are no comparative offers in 39 percent of these cases. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Each of us is also a private person, and if I make a bigger purchase in my life, I get at least two offers. Each one takes two offers – because no one is his own stockbroker's enemy – to weigh: What is the cheaper variant, and where do I get the corresponding quality? In 29 percent of the cases, there was no need test – I then come to speak later – and 15 percent are very inadequate until not documented at all. – Ms. Minister, you had to go to 14 on 14 May. March of this year to send a urgent request from the Greens in the Federal Council. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: The FPÖ!]] There you have already done the answer, and in part the answers have overlapd with today's reply. You said today that you have now introduced a procurement workflow in your ministry, which means that you have transparency at the touch of a button. – This procurement workflow was introduced in 2010 in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, and at that time he served to optimize the purchase of mobile phones. So that has already been done, but I am very glad that you want to introduce it in all areas now. You say that the six-eye principle also applies to you: A department reports a need for finance to check whether this is so necessary and can also be financed, it goes further to the awarding department, and in the case of procurement over €40 000, the internal revision will also be added. – Mrs Minister, how can it then be that within six years no single procurement was examined in-house? [[Abg. Mayerhofer:... you can check!]] Was there no procurement worth €40 000? You yourself have said that the procurement has always been in accordance with the directives of the federal award, and according to economically acceptable terms you would also carry out the documentation. However, there is inadmissible direct payments which the Court of Auditors clearly lists in its report on page 65. There is an exception in which one says there is no need to make a comparison, but it is always only about internal security. And if I only take this page 65, which contains ten orders, where we are talking about organizational development projects, where communication coaching is concerned, where we are talking about future strategies, where we are talking about biometry in the residence title, about the official signature and much more, then there is no comparison offer there, Mrs Minister – no one! – and that is not just the internal security of Austria! I can tell you one thing, Mrs Minister – although I still have very, very many points, but unfortunately my speaking time is going to be very slow –: If you are not actively helping to reveal and clarify these points of the Court of Auditors, this is not a situation that we can explain very easily to citizens, taxpayers and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e7468	Mr Kößl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e7489	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Colleague, of the 27 critical points mentioned here by the Court of Auditors, 20 have already been implemented. So it's more than two-thirds implemented, and it's going to work very hard. Today, we have only heard suspicions, accusations, assumptions, suspicions, but is there anything, a single word somewhere in the Court of Auditors' report that a damage has occurred or that there is something corrupt in this whole matter? [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strache and Dr Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I would like to clarify the following: The Federal Ministry and the 33 000 officials are responsible for security. You do it day out, dayin, and you don't need to question security in Austria in any way! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[Abg. Mayerhofer: They're not for the debate, Mr. Chief Inspector!]] We are still among the safest countries in the world, and I am convinced that this will continue to be the case in the future. This year, €2.5 billion is available for security tasks, and today we are talking about a very small area, namely a procurement area of between €60 million and €80 million per year. There are 15 000 procurement operations carried out at the Ministry of the Interior, and the Court of Auditors has taken out 59 and 79 procurement operations, according to points of view that cannot be understood, but that is one of the Court's things - and twelve of them more detailed. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ollinger and Mr Mag. Kogler]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: You can count it up!]] So this criticism, which has been brought by the Court of Auditors, is flat-rate and is not clearly understandable in itself for any procurement process. And in this Court of Auditors report, there is no way in which many positive events have actually occurred. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Probably there is no one!]] – There are certainly, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] In any case, the fact is one: that this review has been required by the Federal Minister himself. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Court of Auditors... St. Pölten site!]] She has also said that there is the six-eye principle in the Ministry of the Interior. And tell me where there is a six-eye principle, where every process is really comprehensible! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] And I can't see that there are illegality, waste and transparency here, but rather I believe that there is, of course, a time pressure in different situations. [[Abg. Oils: Ha, ha!]] [[Abg. Oils: Aha, time pressure! Sure!]] Especially in the case of..., in the case of...,... in the case of the official signature there has certainly been a massive time pressure, and the damage would have been much greater if this order had not been done – we have already heard today that perhaps more than €32 million should have been placed in the sand. [[the speaker is hesitant]] [[Abg. Strache: Now he's stuck in the text!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: With such a text I would also hang!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That's just more embarrassing!]] The fact is, of course, that advice is of course a very personal matter – and that has also been addressed by Klubobmann Kopf. And I already believe that it is right and important that people use their trust in order to be able to take advantage of this advisory activity. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Does it serve?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Strache: “minister ” is the right term!]] So take note that the procurement process in the Ministry of the Interior is on and on its own comprehensible that there is no evidence here and in itself that anything has gone wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: It's really all right!]] And regarding these suspicions and accusations and precepts, it would certainly be a good thing that They'll stop it and perhaps come in front of their own door. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] And to my colleague Pilz – because he just came in – I would like to say one thing: So, Mr Pilz is making himself here and making massive criticism, Mr Oellinger, is insolent, where the colleague Pilz is still sitting in a community apartment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e7751	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e7772	Mr President. I'm gonna have to get in there right now: So, Mr Kößl, it really is not possible to say that there are only 60 to 80 million purchasing volumes anyway, and we do not need to talk about them any further. And if a few hundred thousand euros go to an ÖVP party special, that's all right. – You have confirmed what Klubobmann Kopf has already said, namely that in a political function, of course, someone is engaged in his trust. [[Abg. Strache: Well, he said “beggar”! “Provide”!]] I'll give it to you, just confuse herb with beetroot. You can do this if you are a party observer if you have a party function: then you can choose from someone who is in your party environment. The whole thing certainly doesn't work anymore if you're ministers, a public body. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] Then you can't say: So, I now grab the phone listener, I have an order of a few hundred thousand euros, then I call a party specific, and he does the whole thing to me – and this is also free-handed and away from the award guidelines. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This is something quite sensitive, and you have actually been caught in the trap in the course of the whole debate, because you have admitted that it is very well for a minister to contact a man of his party trust and to redirect orders in this direction. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kößl.]] This is certainly not how public procurement works, and precisely because of this, we are discussing these paintings in this area that are not in order – I will come back to them in detail. Madam President, with regard to the beginning of the debate, I am unable to answer a reply because I cannot agree with the fact that you have said that we are not discussing and debating today that 30 requests have been answered on a flat basis, that 183 mandates have been called for their right of question and that we are being discussed in a few days away from the public. – I have heard this for years that we do not discuss on the spot, but wait a little, let a few days pass, later advise in the Presidential. Whoever sits here on the chair of the President has the majority of this House and has not only when the time has gone by to ring with the bell, but he has to preserve the rights of the mandates. And that is what I expect in the future: that this will be done differently and that if three or four political groups desire to make a stand-in-chief, they will also comply with this desire. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens]] There is something else that has emerged in this debate today and which, in my view, is anything but acceptable, if I do not like a Court of Auditors report – and the Court of Auditors is not something, please, it is an auxiliary body in this House; the President has the majority of this House – to say: Well, he was overstated. And now I'm calling around, maybe back in the party environment, and I'm asking: Who is willing to send me contrary perceptions in an expertise?, perhaps also pay for it, and then I go to this House and say: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it's all right anyway; the Court of Auditors may have formulated a little bit of admirable. That is not true at all, as is the case in this Court of Auditors report. I have an opinion here, and there's inside, it's all right anyway. – So, please, you can’t do it any more in the future! There is the agreement of this House that the Court of Auditors, as a democratically legitimate control body of this House, is here, please, to take seriously! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is contained in the Court of Auditors' report is anything but a bagatelle. And what bothered me with the... – Yes, yes! [[Abg. Grossruck: But you can already criticize him, the Court of Auditors!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] You'll criticize him if you don't like it! Then, once the ÖVP is criticized, then, once many pages prove that procurement operations in the ÖVP environment, orders to an ÖVP special are criticized, come into public discussion, then it doesn't fit. [[Abg. Rädler: Mr. Meischberger! Meschberger!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] If others are involved and affected, then it fits. [[Abg. Riedler: Meischberger!]] This is not a self-service shop where you say: The Court of Auditors report does not fit me and the other does not fit. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] There are so many things that are not well. The chief police officer says it himself. “It doesn’t fit together,” says the chief of the police union. “On the one hand, the ban on sparring and partly downgraded police inspections – on the other hand, questionable acquisitions and expensive consulting contracts. ‘In the case of equipment, there is no lack of staff and there seems to have been millions of money allocated here.’ I'll tell you one thing: Before I forgive 2 million € to a party specific for a campaign – if I were an interior minister – I would rather distribute this money to the police, I would rather make sure that those in the agglomerations receive an allowance, I ensure that the inspections are properly renovated, and I ensure that the police in Austria have proper and decent conditions – instead of serving a party specific in permanence. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Strache: A broken cover! Raise the basic wage!]] [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] In this context, I would like to make another request, which you can agree to today as a nail sample, in order to improve the conditions for Austrian police officers. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Mikl-Leiter, you could have admitted today: Yes, that was the era of fecter, which has been in very massive criticism here. That was the minister, who – I quote her – has passed to the area of "fine". It has also placed public funds in the sand in the field of "piving" as well as in the area of "fine", where the money of the savers now comes away and flows into various bank packages. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] There it would be all right to say, just as the SPÖ has partly done today: Yes, there were failures here, yes, there were some things wrong here, and yes, I put the procurement of the future on proper feet. – To say only: I'm doing a workflow now, it's too little from my point of view. Ask out on the street, which is a workflow! If you were pure conscience and could say to the public: Yes, in my house, procurement processes of the past have been prepared; there have been mistakes, but in the future this is no longer happening!, then everyone understands. To say: I am now doing a procurement workflow!, is something that seems to be hiding things behind it and that – and I quote your supervisor – it goes on the way it has been before. That was not enough today. Shame! You missed good chances. Voices At least you agree that the money will actually flow towards those who need it in future instead of in the direction of consultants of the ÖVP, namely to the Austrian police. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e7963	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8025	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8046	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! An interesting and, above all, very important debate – the question is whether the government bank is as busy as it should be in this debate. I'm saying no, because I'm just missing the Minister of Finance. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] – We are debating errors for which there is a responsibility of the Minister of Finance Fekter – then Minister of the Interior, now Minister of Finance. So we have a minister who is confronted with allegations of things that took place before she took office. Now there is a typical ÖVP-reflex. There's a Court of Auditors report, massive errors. What are you doing? – Small speeches, talk away, and now one even brings us a credit: award-making legal consideration. [[Abg. Oils: How much did it cost?]] Mrs. Minister! They persistently conceal the number all interested here: What did this opinion cost to implement your ÖVP strategy? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is not true at all what the Court of Auditors has said! Now I call you two numbers: The Court of Auditors issued 27 recommendations, and you are delighted that you have already implemented 20 – three quarters of the recommendations have been implemented. Now you have to explain to me what you want to tell us with this opinion. If three-quarters of the recommendations have been implemented, then the accusations were correct, and thank God they were shown and you started to implement the recommendations. 20 recommendations have already been implemented; But you could have explained to us today what happens to the remaining seven: whether they will be implemented, and if so, when, or why you do not implement something. – But you don't tell us that. You make a question answer where you say with regard to 30 questions: That's flat-rate, in a sentence. The big question – does that correspond to the letters of the Rules of Procedure? – will be discussed again with the exclusion of the public in the presidential. – And then you try to give us an example of why all of this is so, and that’s what you’re telling us on the basis of radar guns. What you've delivered here could actually be summarized under a title: That was kind of Grimm's fairy tale hour. You have missed out on the possibility of submitting mistakes here and explaining what the correct answers are. We discuss the award procedure here in a way – direct award, sulphur value: 100 000 €. From my point of view, the following is also important: Instruments for the economy down to the municipalities, in order to be able to react quickly so as to clarify the need for a measure – i.e. an examination of the need – to ensure that prices are adequate to clarify the serious accusation of Mr Pilz's party financing – which is not so adventurous, but has a lot to do with the interrelationships of those who are all acting as actors here. You didn't give us any answers to all of this. These advisory contracts were examined with 59 samples. I do not want to add up what was shown here by the Court of Auditors. On the other hand, we also have to ask ourselves the question again and again in these advisory contracts: How useful is that? How necessary is that? What could we not do with this tax money alternatively? I count you a few areas where we always get the same answer: Health care, health reform, school reform, more personnel for safety, care, a better family policy. The same answer always comes: We're missing the money! The consultative agreements, on the other hand, are generous. There's money for everything. What will be the taxpayer's answer? What will be the answer of your staff at the Ministry of Interior? Look at the situation of the security forces, the police and the police! What's the state? – Overtime lock and there are defects everywhere: in the armament, in the uniformation, in the fleet, in the accommodation. Again, the same answer always comes: We don't have any money for that now. I have a comparison from the police inspection of Wiener Straße, Schwechat, so that I can also present this in numbers: In 2005, there were up to 39 officials, now 23, but in fact there are 19. There is an even more dramatic picture in the criminal service, at the Mannswörth outside. You know, these officials just shake their heads over your policies in your house. It's money for everything, just not for those who guarantee security. I think you should finally open your eyes. I know you've got your desk culprits in the ministry that carry these spargical thoughts down to the bottom. But does that always make sense? – I can tell you, I very much doubt this, because I know one thing with the staff involved in the police. I can only advise you urgently: Turn around! Leave This way, and invest the money where it is best lifted, namely in more personnel for security! Stop with this nonsense, with these consulting contracts! The Court of Auditors report clearly states: This is an advantage for the taxpayer. Hit You're taking a different course!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8097	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8118	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! These proceedings concerning the Court of Auditors' report concerning the Federal Ministry of the Interior are really to be questioned, and that is why this special session is more than justified today. This is not a question of any private money from the Federal Minister Mikl-Leiter or from her predecessor, today's Minister of Finance Fekter, who, in my opinion, should also be here, because it concerns mainly her. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] So it's not about their private money. Nor is it about the party money of the ÖVP or another party, but it is about tax money, ladies and gentlemen, about tax money from you here in the high house, about tax money from the ladies and gentlemen in front of the television screens, about tax money of over 8 million Austrians. One has to be aware of that! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Party money from taxpayers!]] I also want to know about the conditions that we have heard a lot about today, not to push anyone to the Black Peter, but one has to assume that officials are instructed. I believe that the whole thing has not grown on the dung of several officials in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, but that there is a party system behind it, and that is what it is to be investigated. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kößl referred here to the fact that this report has already been implemented in 20 out of 27 points by the Federal Ministry of the Interior. For me, then, I am surprised by the statement made by Mrs Mikl- Leitner, who some time ago spoke of the fact that the Court of Auditors report as a whole only has the status of a discussion paper. So if she sees it this way, and she does two thirds of it, then I wonder if it was really such a discussion paper or whether the Court of Auditors has rightly criticized it, and I assume it is. It has also been discussed here – that has already bothered me very much – the Federal Minister Fekter – unfortunately I can only pass it on to her – has spent €360 000 for coaching and strategic consulting. Ladies and gentlemen! This is something that the ÖVP could pay for, or perhaps the Minister himself, if she needs it, but that's not the taxpayer's business. You have to say that quite clearly here. It is also interesting that this company Headquarterer – we have often heard it – has always come to the train of Mr. Ulmer, former cabinet employee of Mr. Strasser. If you look at what Mr. Ulmer's or this company Headquarterer's dayset was – 2 400 € was the dayset – this is already objectionable. If you consider that this is the income of a auditor, the monthly income, you already know what numbers are thrown around here. [[Abg. Amon: But now, hopefully, you don't want to put anything under the control of the examiners!]] And then you have to look even further: This Mr Ulmer put his cabinet job on the nail in 2004 and, of course, went directly into the advisory work, and that as a duty-free official. This, ladies and gentlemen, is already giving a very, very shaky light. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I was particularly impressed by the fact that I read somewhere else that €2.2 million was used in an advertising campaign for the recruitment of police recruits. Ladies and gentlemen! To illustrate: That's 4 400 € per police student who's been hired here. Now you have to give it to yourself: 500 young people were recruited there. 4 400 € per police student spent only for one advertising campaign. Ladies and gentlemen! That's overstretched. It can't be. Now I would like to pass on a little more: We had in Vorarlberg a state police commander, the Siegbert Denz. He has proposed a head premium in Vorarlberg, so that every police officer who advertises another police officer will receive a few euros as a head premium if he stays with the police. This would have been a much cheaper system. I think you could have set up a whole company at €4 400, which each of these 500 police students would have cost here. That would have been the right way. That's where I have to say, money's being sluggished, and that's what it's supposed to be. This is tax money, which belongs to the Austrians and not the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I believe that it is urgently necessary – and this has already been mentioned here – to use this money for police work. There was a lot of investment here in advertising campaigns, in coaching, in party organisations that then organized ÖVP elections, instead of using the money for the really important points in the Interior Ministry, namely that the executive officials are well trained that they have a good payment. That's an important point. I can come back to my request, which has been in the House since autumn. At the time, I called for a separate executive service law for the executive. I would like to give you an example of how: Ladies and gentlemen! If an executive with 20, 25 years of service has an accident – not in service – then he loses all the additional charges. Everything's falling away. This official then has an average of 1 200 € total income. Family father, two children – we figured this out. I have seen this from the example of a colleague: €1,200. In Vorarlberg you pay for a three-room rental as a single earner with promotion, if you get the state or the one from the municipality, about 700 to 800 €. It's just for the apartment. What do I do with a four-member family of 1,200 €? Ladies and gentlemen! This should be secured, because otherwise the job becomes totally unattractive. There you can switch advertising campaigns by hundreds of millions of euros and you will not get the police officers together to do proper police work. That's where it's packed! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Take the money in your hand for sufficient personnel! We still do not have the 1,000 additional police officers that Mrs Fekter promised years ago. They're still missing. It's still not that far. I would also like to address the savings measures that are now coming to the executive. We know exactly that it's happening here at many corners and ends. All over the world, the executives can no longer afford overtime because they can no longer cover it from the Federal Ministry of the Interior. The budget is spent on such measures as we have heard today, but where it is necessary to combat crime at the borders of Lower Austria, all over Austria, it is there. You can't follow these dawns properly because you don't have the staff because you can't pay it because you can't pay the overtime. Ladies and gentlemen, it's packed! That's where the money would be really invested. Please pick it up there, Mrs. Minister! Change your course! Our support is yours. Let's take this together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8198	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8219	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! The use of taxpayers must be carried out correctly and efficiently. The resolution shall be carried out properly. This is the top responsibility of policy makers, the obligation to taxpayers and taxpayers. Free movement of goods with rising costs is not a confidence building measure, on the contrary. The transparency and comprehensibleness of procurement processes and decision-making processes in procurement is a priority. The Court of Auditors shall list on over 200 pages the need for improvement. The Quintessence from the test results is that there were no comparative offers and insufficient documentation. There is no complete and reliable overview and also no rapid availability of the procurement volume. The interaction between the resort and the Bundesbebeschauf GmbH is also to be improved. The control of current procurement and the review of procurement operations is a risk analysis in order to be able to slow down if costs rise. That would be the task of an internal revision. This internal revision – Mr Oellinger has already indicated it before – was located in the section in which the procurements were carried out and only carried out a single review in six years. [[Abg. Oils: Practical!]] Another example: As part of a future strategy on advice and scientific monitoring of the section on budgetary reform, there was an increase in expenditure from € 171 000 to € 551 678. As a reason, the Ministry of the Interior formulated that this strategy-building process was necessary for the reform of the budget law and therefore increased expenditure, after the conclusion of a contract, in a work contract which was concluded retroactively. There were no comparative offers in this case. One argument that appears on the part of the resort is that the protection of essential security interests would be a priority and, so to speak, a veil could be placed on it. In the case of procurement operations carried out freely and without documentation and with very large increases, the protection of security interests has always been given. This is not a confidence-building measure, however, because the strategicly sensitive area is for taxpayers that the tax money is properly and efficiently transferred. In order to explain expenditure where the estimated amount was exceeded by more than twice as much as possible, it was also most often argued that the essential security interests were presented, without providing comparison offers and having made a documentation. The Ministry has stressed that there should have been no comparative offers and no documentation in strategic sensitive areas. Many measures have already been taken on the part of the Interior, but, ladies and gentlemen, where confidence in taxpayers and taxpayers is to be created, there is no possibility of comparison and documentation? – That must be changed! We have an obligation to taxpayers, because they have an equally important security interest in the successful organisation of the state. It is important that taxpayers do not lose the confidence that their money is used correctly and efficiently and that it is not used without documentation and comparative offers in procurement operations. – We are obliged to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8256	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8277	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Today's urgent request starts with a quote from a fairy tale. Mr Pilz said today in his speech that he was a Member or a functional member of the ÖVP... [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: He certainly didn't say that! I don't think so!]] It all sounds very fairy tale-like, but it does not solve serious security problems. I should now like to turn to the figures and facts, and to illustrate the course of a complex procurement process by means of an example, namely blue light radio. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] At the time of Federal Minister Karl Schlögl, it was recognized that analogue radio technology is technically and technically at its limits. For example, hearing safety was not optimally given or communication with other blue light organizations was not possible. An optimal supply in the area was not given either. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, in the Ministry of the Interior and beyond, the decision to implement a comprehensive and cross-sectoral solution in the field of radio, which is the subject of this request, with a new digital technology. Ladies and gentlemen, the first execution attempt with Mastertalk was unfortunately not successful. [[Abg. Oellinger: Unfortunately, unfortunately!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's a bad luck!]] In short, Mastertalk means little “Master” and much “Talk”. Unfortunately, Mastertalk and Siemens have given the opportunity to implement a European solution. [[Abg. May. Kogler: A speech of advice!]] Why the original demand has been reduced from € 180 million from Mastertalk to 29, is an interesting question and would be clarified by Siemens. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Yes, exactly!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian population has a right to be optimally supported by all security and aid organisations in crisis situations, such as fire disasters, floods or avalanches. This requires optimal communication, a digital blue light radio. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, right!]] After several years of hard work, the blue light radio has largely developed into a success story. [[Abg. Oils: Black light!]] The situation that the police cannot communicate via radio with the aid organizations is a thing of the past. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Blaulichtfunk is implemented and was implemented in the federal states of Vienna, Lower Austria, Burgenland, Tirol, Styria and in the cities of Salzburg and Klagenfurt. Fortunately, this technology and method are used by the police, the rescue organizations, the firearms, the federal army, the ASFINAG, the Austrian Federal Railways, the Ministry of Justice, the BMVIT, and many others will follow. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Lauter Geschätzte!]] Ladies and gentlemen, whether you are right with a decision is to be recognized by making a comparison beyond the national borders. A comparison in this context only makes sense if one appeals to competent bodies of abroad. In this context, I should like to make a few remarks from the report by the Supreme Bavarian Court of Auditors: The Supreme Bavarian Court of Auditors presented its annual report in Munich. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: We are talking about the Austrian Court of Auditors report, not the Bavarian one! You caught the wrong report!]] In this, the cost explosion is criticized for expanding the digital radio for police, fire brigade and rescue services. Instead of an initially assumed amount of € 650 million, the cost is € 1 billion. [[Abg. Ollinger: That must not be true!]] However, the Court of Auditors has already spent 1.1 billion on the development of the network. [[Abg. Ollinger: Well, that's embarrassing!]] And now it comes: The Court of Auditors is also not yet fully informed whether and under what conditions the non-governmental security bodies, such as fire and rescue services, are participating in digital radio. [[Abg. Oillinger: The Bavarian Court of Auditors! That's absurd! Absorbed!]] Mr Oellinger, this is embarrassing for others. Austria has implemented this excellently, and we can all together be proud to have a future-looking and modern technology that we can use in crisis situations. I had to experience as a fireman myself that these communications techniques were not available in the past. In Austria, however, this is the case now. If you are already talking about objectivity, I would like the Court of Auditors to present in its reports a balance sheet, which is also such – with a agenda and with a target page. This means that this report does not assess what it would have cost Austrian taxpayers if this technology had not been introduced. [[Call the Deputies Mag. Gaßner, Neubauer and Oillinger: We don't have it yet! We don't have it]] Without this technology, the old stock would have accounted for 400 million. Many other countries in Europe envy us about this situation because we are simply pioneers in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8490	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8511	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! So, very briefly to my previous speaker: Mr Commissioner, I don't know now, is your speech about laughing or crying? [[Abg. New builder: Incredible!]] First of all: First of all, we do not have that as you have now presented it to us. We have heard several times today, it is best implemented in three federal states. And if you present this as the great achievement, I say here, then I say: Well, you come from Lower Austria, the Federal Minister Strasser also came from Lower Austria, because the walls started. And that is, as it were, the first gift that really showed a conspicuousness. Let us remember how it all happened: In July 2002, ADONI was awarded the contract. A year later, it was re-exhibited. Only this new invitation to tender cost €30 million. [[Abg. New builder: Unmistakable!]] This is once a loss, 30 million for nothing, written off. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] That is what you call success and quote from the report of the Bavarian Court of Auditors. I do not know, Mr Commissioner, if you had read the Austrian report, you would not have done something like that here. But that was wrong anyway. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] But then we'll just stay with your blue light radio: How was that? – Half a year after ADONIS had received the award before he was rewritten, a gentleman from the cabinet of Federal Minister Strasser, a certain Major General Peter Skorsch, suddenly became a gentleman on intervention – and perhaps you can explain from the ÖVP exactly who intervened there; Mr Bartenstein, perhaps, or also the company Kappacher?, that is that company, where we have already heard today, that she has also received orders from Mr. Skorsch when he was still working in the cabinet, to the head of this consortium. But still, we've re-inscribed it. Then, all of a sudden, the documents were stolen from Mr. Skorsch – just to remind you of how great it was: In 2004, the documents were stolen from Mr Skorsch with the call for tender, where exactly how much this may cost. And see, a little while later, Point landing of TETRON, it has reached exactly the cost point. It was never explained who really stole the documents from Mr Skorsch. So don't talk like that was a success story! The opposite is the case. That was the first corruption case. At that time the walls in the Ministry of the Interior were raised. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: A glamour!]] And, Mrs. Federal Minister, today you have done the following: They have further compacted these walls. Due to your answer, you have shown that you have no interest in making this system Straster only somewhere transparent or transparent. No, you're doing the exact opposite. You have further built the walls, you have put yourself here, you have read from some opinion – and now I do not want to criticize the expert in any way, that is not for me – which you have certainly also paid again, literally read, I quote: The Court of Auditors did not understand the complexity of the contracts. Well, now quite honestly: If that were the case, it's no wonder, because there's no record in your place. Everything will be given free of charge, without any documents. The Court of Auditors has rightly criticized this. There are no documents available, no records available. Therefore, it may be. But I'm wondering, What does that have to look for in a legal opinion? In reality, the Court of Auditors has to review the award practice here. He did that, he did it very well. That's what he made very transparent. But You obviously need a legal opinion to say: Well, it's all pointed anyway! And from the legal opinion, you quote us two sentences, they throw us down and tell us that the world is in order again. But now we are going back a little bit to the more recent times, namely the years 2010 and 2011, and there we see – we have already discussed this in detail today – the company Headquarterer is, for example, one of the companies that have benefited quite massively. Mrs. Federal Minister, you said last November, with the company Headquarterer – because it may not be so pleasant now – you will not do any more business at all. It is only interesting that Mr Ulmer founded the next consultant company, namely exactly on 13 March. December. So one month after you terminated the contract with the headquarters, Mr. Ulmer, together with Mr. Thomas Zach, Mr. Zach, for all who do not know, is the Director General of State Printing – the consultant firm Gradus Proximus. We do not know today how much your ministry has passed on to Gradus Proximus again, how many orders have gone in this direction. I could continue this now: Wolfgang Gattringer with his REPUCO, all these stories. Time won't allow me. [[Abg. Amon: Condemnations!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You have done neither this House nor the Republic a good service today by defending this system of Straster by not allowing you to take a look behind these walls. And I suggest to you that you are not willing to break with the system, but, on the contrary, you are still at the expense of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8623	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8644	High house! In contrast to you, Mrs Mikl-Leiter, Mr Klubobmann has said something in his speech. I would like to congratulate him on this refreshing openness, which was formally defamatory. That is, if one accuses the ÖVP that it operates post chess, nepotism, gives public orders to party-related employees, then the Austrian People's Party responds according to the motto: The SPÖ is doing it too! [[Abg. Head: Do you have anything in your ears?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] That is to say, it is a competition for those who make themselves part-time intellectual support wheels of the individual ministries: Who needs more support, who needs more mental support wheels in the government? – because you are obviously unable to rule yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, but also of Social Democracy. What we have in Austria, and this is also documented, is the system that all the departments are holding around Zigmillions Euro consultants, consultants for the simplest activities that any ministry itself could accomplish. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Mr Kickl rightly says, surrounded by consultants, ladies and gentlemen. It is embarrassing and embarrassing that an interior minister in this House would obviously need an advisor to read a parliamentary request, in order to provide this Parliament with proper information. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] But today I have brought with me a selection of parliamentary responses to the questions that show what purpose the consultations have been collected: the design and presentation of flags for all the country police commanders: €5 760. So for bringing in a red-and-white-red flag in every national police command, nine in number, the agency has the Headquarters, namely this ÖVP-near agency Headquarters, €5 760. That would have been the case with your Wastln in your ministry, Mrs. Innenminister. [[He-Rufe at SPÖ and ÖVP]] We do not need an ÖVP-near unit to do this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For the design of autograph cards by Mr. Günther Platter: 216 €, for the face of Mr. Federal Minister, who has never been embarrassed in the time of the hopelessness of his own political ideas, that someone asks him for an autograph, ladies and gentlemen. But for this, the Austrian taxpayer was asked to cash. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There are also other responses, not only from your department, but also from all other departments, such as the Federal Chancellor's Office, where 98 000 € were awarded in 2010, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, that is exactly 2 000 € under a legally standardised award, to which Demner, Merlicek & Bergmann Werbgesellschaft has been awarded – for strategic communication advice from the brusque Mr. Bundeskanzler, who, before going to the door, also needs an advisor. Or Mr. Thomas Hofer cashes 500 € for the management and preparation of a fireplace conversation, or Mr. Peter Filzmaier – all these usual suspects, who then post the polls false and party political comments on the state of parties before the elections, can be found on the Judas-Lohn list of Austrian Social Democracy, but also the Austrian People's Party. [[BZÖ and FPÖ representatives are welcome.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] And if you look at the parliamentary answer to your ÖVP Justice Minister Beatrix Karl from March 28, 2013, you will find old friends on the advisory list: Heidi GLÜCK, spirit & support, media + public affairs consulting GmbH. So the one who has been in the service of the Austrian People's Party for many years and under the Schüssel system at the service of the Federal Chancellor will of course be quietly supplied by the Austrian People's Party, the Federal Ministry of Justice. Only on the subject, as you supply tax money to your own party guests in these security devices in the Ministry of the Interior, but also in the Ministry of Justice. [[Abg. Riedler: Meischberger!]] In the Federal Ministry of Education and Culture of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Schmied a certain Mr Mag. Peter Menasse for general cultural policy advisory services for the resort 41 778 €. Now explain to me what Mr Menasse has contributed to this, except that he is a left-wing virtue terrorist, who constantly gives up all his greetings about the bourgeois-right empires in this country. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] [[Call the ÖVP:Na hello!]] For this, he receives tax money that he makes party policy in the office of Ms. Teaching Minister Schmied to write her speeches to her. Or: In the department of Mr. Stöger we find prominent names, such as the so-called French rider media – former ORF editor. It is much more exciting, however, that he first worked at the Austrian Trade Union Confederation in public relations and then was editor of the happy Social Democratic Party newspaper “New Time”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl.]] He finds himself again in the reply of a parliamentary question to Mr Stöger, where the Social Democracy would have diligently supplied its party guests with tax money. I could now use the entire speaking time of my group – but I do not want to use this, in favour of my constituency, Mr Widmann – to refer to all the parliamentary questions about these criminal unsituations of yours, how you take control of tax money, provide your party guests and abuse our Republic's departments as washing machines of your cheap party donations! [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8790	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8812	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! We have gathered here today for this special meeting to discuss the award practice in the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs, in particular the digital radio. It is, I believe, very important that we come together today to discuss some points. Mr Grosz, I think you have enough to do in your party yourself before you present something to others. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] First of all: There is a system, the system Straster, which has been working on us here for some time. Many of us, who have stood out here today, have been in the Committee of Inquiry, have invested many, many hours to bring this system up. The system was perfected by the former Minister of the Interior and his chief of the cabinet, Christoph Ulmer. It is unfortunate that this system has been continued, namely by Minister of the Interior Platter, but also by Minister Fekter. The only one who has reached a conclusion here, I must say, is the current minister who has terminated the contract with this consultancy firm or advertising agency. On the other hand, there are inconsistencies, as this report by the Court of Auditors clearly states. There are inconsistencies in an area where the Strasser system has created a procurement control, but also documentation and transparency at the procurement points, which is already unique. There is a volume on one side: 72 million € Direct award. This is where the Ministry of the Interior is leading, all the other ministries. On the other hand, there are also €95 million, which were awarded via Bundesbebeschaffung GmbH. At least that is, I think, a point that has been designed very transparently. Let's go to the €72 million of direct awards that were made in 2010. There are inconsistencies in connection with the then Minister of the Interior. I would just like to take one point that has been raised here. This is about the advertising agency, where almost €293,000 has been paid. It is no longer possible to understand why this sum has been paid. Next point of criticism, direct awards. That too, I think, is very important. There is a range of up to €100 000 for direct payments. Only if there is a cost estimate of 99,999.99 € now, then it is self-explanatory and, in fact, to be condemned. There is, I also have to say, to ask if there is no conditional intention and whether the tender criteria have not been circumvented. One more thing. There was a project BORA. There has been much more expenditure, namely €523 000. It's just as directly forgiven. Only one thing has to be considered: just this project was awarded with 90 000 € just a few days before the legal increase in the Rules of Procedure in the direct award of 100 000 euros. - The first stunk. And that, although it was still not possible to forgive like that at that time. I don't understand! There are certain rules, and as mayor we also know that these rules must be observed; and especially those officials who have made this call should therefore also be held responsible. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Mayerhofer]] The next point is the blue light radio. I am an official myself at the Ministry of the Interior, currently exempt from my political activity. Only what has been done in the years 2000 to 2006 is already unique. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Amon, Mr Mag. Gäsner and Rädler.]] 2000 to 2006 – if we look at the blue light radio under Ernst Strasser alone, we see a cost explosion. I am now quoting the Court of Auditors, which has made it quite clear: ‘The comparative amount () came about without concrete evidence of actual expenditure. () The BMI did not remain usable assets from the ADONI project.” That means, 30 million € were put in the sand here, ladies and gentlemen, my dear. [[Abg. Wheeler: 29!]] – If you add the money for consulting, it is €32 million. If you want to concreteize the sum, it is even higher. However, what I am concerned about is the fact that at the time the thought was expressed that these €32 million, which have been in the room, have been tapped off by the Ministry of the Interior from various areas: from the refugee budget, but also, that has been added by the Civil Service budget. The total amount to be paid is € 1.15 billion. I think with fear that by 2018 a lot of money will be needed in addition to the Ministry of the Interior so that you can finally implement this costly project. And that's disgusting! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, one last thing to say is: Digital radio is very important, I'll give you that right. But if it is implemented so diletanically when €30 million is put into the sand – the Court of Auditors has confirmed this – when waste of tax money is carried out, then that is not all right, and that must be said so! In addition, I have something to say as a police officer. It is very unfortunate if so many things are saved in one area, namely in the police sector – the criminal police in Vienna is being reduced and the equipment is becoming more and more defective, computers in the police guards need to be renewed – and on the other hand, this money is necessary to implement a digital radio network, although the cost estimate would be € 340 million lower! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8887	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e8909	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr Plessl! This was in itself a joint project, and it is indisputable that the Austrian executive needs the digital radio, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rädler: I believe that too!]] No one has disputed that errors have occurred in the implementation of such a mega project at the beginning, Mr Plessl. [[Mr Oellinger and Mr Belakovich-Jenewein.]] But what the Court of Auditors completely disregards in its calculations is any form of opportunity costs. The Court of Auditors does not have a comparison, as it would have been, to the digital radio. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] And, of course, the Court of Auditors must be criticised. Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, everyone knows it's election. It seems that everyone is going against everyone here, and in fact the facts and politics remain on the road. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] For if you look at today's parliamentary question, ladies and gentlemen, then there is an incredibly false impression here. There is a list of lots of award cases attached, and then it is as if the Court of Auditors had criticised the same list. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] There are, of course, agencies in which there are individuals who can be put in a close relationship with the EIA, which is true. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: The fourth one who can't read!]] Only what it is, ladies and gentlemen: If you read the Court of Auditors' report very carefully, you will find that the Court of Auditors does not criticize these awards. The Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, writes – I quote page 10 of 66 – that: ‘The content of the selected procurements was not the subject of the review.’ [[Abg. May. Widmann: Page 19!]] In other words, the Court of Auditors has not at all looked at the content of what happened. The Ministry was not given the opportunity at all to comment on the awards in terms of content. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how many forgivenesss there are every year in the Ministry of the Interior? – There are 95 000 individual awards running across the central office. The Court of Auditors shall write in its report: ‘With a view to a comprehensive review, the RH – the Court of Auditors – ‘takes a risk-oriented sample of 59 cases from the detailed reports of all the collecting bodies on the statistical reports for 2010’. There are 59 cases of 95 000, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] And then the RH writes, in 39 percent of cases there was no collection of comparative offers. If we put this up, then I have to say, we are moving towards criticism in the promille area, ladies and gentlemen. So serious is the debate! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And then for the opinion – it is really remarkable that the Greens are criticizing it. Please, on any possible and impossible occasion, you will come with a legal opinion by Dr. Heinz Mayer. Therefore, at every opportunity you come and believe to be able to argue. [[Calls to the Greens.]] But if a Minister of State takes this opportunity and asks a recognized university teacher to write an opinion, then you, ladies and gentlemen, are running censorship because he is different from you. That's how the Greens act politically. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also very interesting, because the Greens are particularly active as a clean party. “The Press”, 21.2.: ‘However, there are similar refreshments in the greens: The agency Super-Fi – which has nothing to do with the peasantry – “was responsible, among other things, for the green campaigns of the National Council elections 2006 and 2008. And now Super-Fi is on the payroll of the city of Vienna.” [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] A logical conclusion would now be, my Ladies and gentlemen, we may be making illegal party funding available to the Greens, which I do not do, because I want to remain serious. But you're doing this, ladies and gentlemen, and that's inappropriate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We would like to talk about more important issues, about jobs, about economic growth, about innovation, about living, for example. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, please!]] There you would have to make some of the greens in your ranks order. Or is it wrong for Mr. Pilz to live in a social apartment? [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Is that true? Is that your claim to social justice? By the way, I would also invite the Social Democrats to go along on this path, finally to say: The social housing of those who also need it socially, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have nothing against a mix, but those who get a higher income should also pay more. That would be social justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e9082	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. There are 4 minutes left. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e9104	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Amon, the executive needs blue-light radio, I agree with you. However, what it does not need – and that is the subject of today’s special meeting – is this striking and most worrying fixture between money flows and ÖVP-near associations on the one hand and former cabinet members on the other, which then cash down the big money in precisely these ÖVP-near institutions. We don't need that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have heard a lot about the TETRON company today, with the help of the former cabinet members from the interior ministry of Gattringer and Krumel – TETRON was the successor company of ADONIS, who was paid €30 million to the army tax money and sent to the desert so that this company TETRON could come to the train – the big money has made. We have heard today what role Ulmer played, who was also head of the cabinet and also made the big money with the company Headquarterer at the taxpayer's expense. We've heard of some cases, I'm allowed to bring you a little closer. In October 2010, the new program of the Ministry of Interior, called INNEN.SICHER, was presented. 57 pages, four hours presentation, cost: 617 000 €. That's what I'm wondering if that's appropriate. The order has gone from the Ministry of the Interior to an ÖVP-near advertising firm, where the head of the former cabinet head of the Ministry of the Interior is. That this is appropriate, I dare doubt. It would have been much better to use this money at the base – and then I join my colleague Vilimsky – where the executive officials who care for the safety of Austrian women do their daily work and often have to do an unthankful, hard job where there is a lack of equipment and where there is only so much of Marod services. I also think that an approach which has already been taken by Mr Vilimsky today would be to create incentives and thus also to give appreciation to the executive staff. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why? – Because this E2b allowance is currently paid only from grade 12. And we do not see why officials of the same rank should be paid differently with the same task and the same activity. I would ask you to support this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e9188	The application is properly filed and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e9255	Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e9277	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to answer the questions at this special meeting. However, I also say that I have the right to sum up equal questions and the same issues on the subject, and that for logical reasons, because if you have 63 questions to answer within 20 minutes, it is logical that you summarize the same questions in terms of content, questions such as whether a review of the qualification or a review of the commercial rights of providers or contractors has taken place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] This question was often asked by the various companies or by different procurement procedures. You, Mrs Brunner, have accused me of not answering this question by the Greens. I say with full respect I have answered this question to you and to you in full appreciation. However, I would also ask you to take the minutes off and read what my answer was. [[Abg. Oils: And what?]] My answer was that only companies were entrusted with the provision of services, which were also empowered to do so, and that all of this was naturally reviewed. I would kindly ask you to withdraw this protocol. In any case, all the answers were given by me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then to the legal opinion of Professor Josef Aicher. – Yes, the Federal Ministry of the Interior was important to ask an additional independent body, Professor Aicher, to produce a legal opinion. Why? – Because there are simply different legal views on the part of the Court of Auditors and the Federal Ministry of the Interior. That does not mean, however, that we are saying that this legal opinion has acquitted us of all mistakes. I repeat here: I have clearly said that this legal opinion has confirmed parts of the Court of Auditors' report. That is why we have already implemented 20 out of 27 recommendations, which I have said quite clearly. However, I also said that parts of the Court of Auditors' report have been relativized. But it is also important to me, once again, to communicate quite clearly, that I am concerned with a hundred percent transparency and comprehensibleness. Therefore, it is not about that we have introduced the procurement workflow. And this procurement workflow is the guarantee of a hundred percent transparency and comprehensibleness. This is the only ministry that has such an instrument. Take me by the word! I am concerned with transparency and perceptibility. And I would also like to thank my officials, because it is not without carrying out 95 000 procurement contracts each year. And I'm not going to let the experts in my house act negligently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank my experts for the really excellent work and for the really great competence, and I can also promise here that, of course, we will also continue to examine the recommendations of the Court of Auditors which we have not yet fulfilled and see that we can continue to implement them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e9331	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e9353	Mr President. High house! Mrs Minister, if your officials are so qualified and do such good work, I wonder why you or your predecessor will award orders in millions or hundreds of thousands of euros freely to ÖVP-near consultants. I wonder, because that is in my opinion a clear distrust of these officials, because you know very well that we have enough good lawyers, enough rights experts and also enough marketing and PR experts in the civil service. [[OBJECTIVES]] So either we have too many officials or too many ÖVP-near consultants, which you need to serve with appropriate bold orders. Mrs Minister, this is the subject. But I am also glad that the opposition parties today together make these urgent, I say, take place, because the question of the day is yes: Where's Mrs. Fekter? – That’s the question of the day! For you, Mrs Minister, today must be able to understand what Mrs Fekter has done in front of you in many areas. And I wonder if a Minister of Finance, who has made sure that black artists have been taken up land with a lot of money from land – the ÖVP says nothing has happened – whether this woman is suitable for the money of Watch out for Austrians, or if it were not better, she would resign as Minister of Finance. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The citizens are tired when the SPÖ here slanders about the ÖVP and the ÖVP slanders about the SPÖ, and ask: What's going on here? One could say that what is happening here is, in fact, a barrage of democracy policy, but I do not want to say it at all, because it is an unword. You could say that, but I'm not saying it, or I'll get an order call. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you: At last, citizens want solutions that citizens want to finally act here, in the form of a good new right to award, or that top positions, those of section heads and ministerial officials, are only granted temporary. Where are we? In the last ten years, the number of posts has exploded in the ministries or cabinets occupied by the Party. Their number has risen from 117 to well over 170. You'd have had experts, too, and you didn't. But the worst thing about it is that this is the system Straßer, my dear ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, which is the system Straßer. Straster's gone, the system has remained with the ÖVP, that's the core. But not only at federal level, not only in the ministries, but also at national level, also at local level. There are enough examples for this. I know national leaders who stand up and finance great advertising campaigns with taxpayers. Incidentally, the same advertising agency also carries out the ÖVP campaign – yes, such a coincidence! Or I know enough councillors, even in Upper Austria, who say clearly, I have to go to the ÖVP, then it fits with the order. – That’s how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! And that's what's to be done in the future. Or another example: The company REPUCO has already been mentioned today. – There is a total of €380 000 for the external monitoring of the Central Registers project. Yes, can this not be done by a good lawyer in the ministry itself? Or Headquarters, Ulmer has been mentioned: To sum up, the cost of the homepage INNEN.SICHER.at €551,000, each expert says you can do the same by €5,000. Where's the rest of the money, Mrs. Minister, where is it? Where are the remaining €500 000? Is this now party relationship if the same agency for the ÖVP makes the campaign, yes or no? I would like your answer to that. And more generally, Mrs. Minister. What has the opinion of Dr. Aicher cost, which really discredits the Court of Auditors? That's the question once. That would be the number of the day. You could also call them. Minister! Her predecessor Fekter got a coaching of €113,000 to discuss in the public the case of Arizona, where national leaders were whirly standing in front of the camera, where they performed a theatre. I'm telling you quite frankly: If someone abuses the right to asylum in Austria, there's a departure, ready! - That's how you do it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This costs much less than € 113 000 for coaching for the minister who is unable to get her ministry under control. Finally, on the subject of security: I was at the Wels motorway police last week. There are no safety locks there, there is no listening room, there the overtime is shortened. There the police have to move in the heating room because there are no own sanitary facilities for women, no There are separate rooms. This is the condition of the executive, but not only in Wels, also in Linz, also in Haid. And that's where you need to clean up, Mrs. Interior Minister, then you'll have our trust again.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e9449	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e9470	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, first of all, I would like to address the Members in the Members' ranks and less to you, because you have at least tried a second attempt and either really did it or at least pretended that you still understood the meaning of the questions. But the ÖVP speakers here at this speaker's desk certainly didn't understand the whole thing. Either they couldn't or didn't want to. But I may still understand the Graz mayor, who just recently – he has always had so strange ideas, but perhaps they are understandable – demanded a test of suitability for politicians. [[Abg. Amon: He wanted to work with you once!]] In view of what you're doing here, I can imagine that this is still getting its permissions, because you don't know if you can't read or count. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What you have offered here from the clubman – I do not want to talk about downwards at all – was really a special class performance, for example from Mr Kößl and then from Mr Amon. But I am going to address these quotations, and we still have a little time for the parliamentary debate. But you don't know if you can't read, because then you would have You may notice that the questions relate to other cases, or whether you cannot expect them because you did not count them through. You can still make that up with yourself, but this is certainly not the case, as you have already done here, as a Member of Parliament, even abuse Parliament, and here you are going to make government proceedings, where we are called for control as Parliament, and not only we, but also the Court of Auditors, who works on our behalf, the Minister himself says that she has commissioned the Court of Auditors to look into it, so that he can finally get an opinion on it, because the result does not match. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] However, this is another matter, and we shall go into it separately, and I shall probably have to do so as chairman of the Committee on Budgets. But first of all there is a preliminary remark because it is really difficult to bear in the Members' series if you look at the image of the government bank. Mr. State Secretary Kurz is sitting there, who is what he is like to all media campaigns – probably he has had better advisors than Mrs. Fekter – always explains what great initiatives he is taking in terms of transparency. He's sitting there, grinning one down, while here the government bank is deceiving the Members. And that's where you want to talk about transparency? – It's not going to work at all! They are not even willing or able to provide transparent answers to the people's representatives, let alone the population. So dig up all your transparency initiatives again, even this consultant money is misinvested. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] But now to the Court of Auditors. – Look, this is one of the few points where I can be positive: Yes, I too sometimes do, I say that the Court of Auditors is not sakrosanct, although it is the institution of this House, it can also be mistaken, it can also be different opinions, especially on complex legal issues, of course. – Whether this was so complex, however, is another question. I think, no. But what is certainly not going on is, in the dispute with the Court of Auditors, to instruct them first and to be proud to extend the scope of the examination, so to speak, and then act in this way. - That's how the process was: There has been an orderly procedure when the Court of Auditors' report was presented when it arrived at the National Council. There was a test result, which was already going to your house. Do you know when this went to your house? – Of course you know: in July 2012. Then you had a maximum of three months to return your answer. You have obviously complied with the deadline, which you do not all do – if you want to do so, there is still a little praise on your part in this regard. But what is certainly not going on is, the day after this report is officially presented to our house – on 11 November. The Court of Auditors' statement of 4 March – after all this now and then – the test result, the statements of the House, which are your good right, against the Court of Auditors. February – to present an opinion. It cannot be that you are waiting for exactly the day on which the report will be presented, and the next day you will have an opinion ready. I don't know what Mr Aicher has for the ability to do something like that overnight. I looked at that. You have made this available to us. ==References== He's drawing this one day later. Yeah, how did he do all that? You've already had this in the drawer, waited for this final result to come out with it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. New builder.]] What happened in this house is the last thing. I believe that this has not yet been done in the Second Republic, at least not since Mr Wabl, my predecessor, and I have been chairman of the Committee on Budgets. There's never been anything like that before. – And you want to sell this to us as a transparency offensive?- Oh, my God! You know, you can be critical of the Court of Auditors – perhaps even at the expense of tax money, which I would doubt – only to do so in the appropriate procedure, and to do so would be the three months in which you have to express yourself, so that the Court of Auditors will again have the opportunity to address these reservations, which you are now doing here. That would be in the sense of the procedure. But You have avoided this in order not to say: misused – at tax payment costs! History continues: You have spoken here a second time, once again, as if everything had been answered – which, of course, was not the case – but the one question that we could not put in writing, because you only made us aware of the existence of this opinion today, you have not answered it. That would have been the only thing you could have said. You too have rejected this second chance. Sign up for a third time! The Rules of Procedure provide for a great many freedoms for the Government Bank. What did it cost you a day after you presented this report here in the drawer? – You will have to explain that. I tell you that exactly such processes should result in the ÖVP – you are now adressable person when you think about the tradition of the Ministry of the Interior – being paid back. Pay this back! Pay this back! This is misuse of tax money in multiple manners. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I now come to the abuse that is originally based on it. You know, it may happen once that you are tasked with an agency for certain activities that cannot be done in the house – it even happens often – but that you are from the side of employees from the ministries' cabinet who then construct and construct companies themselves, set up agencies that are neither particularly active on the market nor successful there, but obviously exclusively there to form a framework, a rounding for the black holes, in which you then tip into the tax money, which is not clear. – Pay back that too! Because it is not clear that, in this way – in a mass and repeated manner – you are favouring companies set up here by black cabinet employees with tax money, although, incidentally, it is not at all clear what the special performance was. One thing I would like to take out after the country's special security has been strengthened. Discussions of €100 000 for press conferences et cetera have been carried out only in the Eurofighter scandal so far. However, where the country's special security is concerned, when Mrs Fekter – your predecessor – sends herself to hold a press conference, I wonder. By the way, the consultation was particularly successful, just as the public performance was at the end. But you kept it that way. That's what I'm saying: In fact, the ÖVP should be forced – for it does not voluntarily – to repay these funds. Pay back or step back! That's a very simple bill. In any case, the money has been misused – since you don't need to be a great prophet. If you are not able or willing to disclose your business connections and accounts, especially as regards election struggles, this only hardens suspicion. Because whenever election struggles were – Mr. Pilz did refer exactly to you – the flow of money to these black sub-contractors was particularly high. You'll have to explain that. One last thing: The headquarters case wasn't the only one. There is an entire structure built up by your predecessors. Mr Strasser obviously founded the whole system – that has been said – but it has gone on all the time! There have also been consultative contracts to state printing. Well, wonderful! Who is in the management of state printing? – Mr. Zach from the Ministry's cabinet. Who was in the Supervisory Board? – Mr Ulmer from the Ministry's cabinet. And who was in the advisory board there? Your predecessor, Strasser. They get tens of thousands of euros to advise on anything that would have happened anyway. Explain this once! Sign up for a third time or pay back everything or step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e9544	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e9565	Mr President. High house! So that some things are clarified here once. I also have a press quote from 12. March. I am not referring at all to the urgent or other words. After the publication of this report by the Court of Auditors, the ‘Press’ states: ‘The list of errors of the Ministry drawn up by the auditors shall be long: inadmissible direct award, choice of wrong procurement procedure, missing or unenforceable contract value, performance before written contract, inappropriate contract design and poor performance documentation and calculation.’ As one speaker said today that we did not have sufficient criticism of this awarding practice, I would like to say the following: Part of our opposition work was that we were a political opponent of the highest category of Interior Minister Strasser and that we always criticized this approach. I also emphasize today that we stand by it and that Strasser is not just about Strasser himself, but about a system that was always to be fought and that should never be there again. - On the one hand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the BZÖ.]] On the other hand: The Court of Auditors shall be a Parliament institution. We can find his criticism sympathetic or not sympathetic. He's independent. It is his job to make criticism, and we have to deal with it. Now no one says that all of this must be sacrosanct, as it is so beautiful, but you can deal with it. And not only that, but also the necessary consequences. And this can sometimes affect one, sometimes the other resort. In any event, it is important that the Court of Auditors also feel that it is being respected here in the future and that its proposals are also taken seriously. But: Testing is one thing, making politics is another. Politics is being made here. I think that should be noted in this connection. But respect is crucial, and we will take that up in the future. Next point: I fully support the President-in-Office. In the next presidency, we should talk about all of this, including the question of whether we are considering a reform of the Rules of Procedure, so that there is a certain number of questions, a ceiling, or whether we should prohibit answering 10, 20 or 30 questions at once in the future. But if you get questions asked, you have to answer them, that's quite logical. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Whether these are 10, 20 or 30 questions, is a matter for itself. However, we should consider whether we do not find a regulation here, then we do not need to discuss it every time. Because this debate on the qualification of questions and answers we have here every time – every time! – and this is often very subjective, I must say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] To be honest, I would rather discuss this in the Presidential. I therefore support this view because it is not possible to imagine the extent to which it is justified that one says that this is consistent in content and the questions X, Y, Z are not, and what do I know? I think that we should make a provision in the Rules of Procedure. If we have the regulation, I hope the matter will be resolved. Next point: The question of transparency in awards. There are now proposals to create a transparent disaster for these awards, possibly on the Internet, while preserving business secrets and business secrets. Here again, we should try to find a real regulation now, a general and truly fundamental one, so that this eternal renunciation of secrets ceases and that things which have always been rightly criticized here in the house can no longer be repeated. On Optics, Minister: You have already given your views twice today. It doesn't have to be all that the media say. This is also an interpretation of the editor. I could also bring a quote from the “standard”. The current look, however, is unacceptable. It is therefore in all our interest to take seriously certain developments which have been and will be taken seriously by the Court of Auditors, the media and at that time – and sometimes by the present – opposition. This is in the sense of the credibility of parties who claim to bear responsibility in this Republic, to shape in this Republic and to ensure that the relationship with politics becomes another, so that these prejudices do not become a breeding ground for populist politics, in which at the end of the day an uncoordinated mess results in a damage to democracy. That is the concern we have to bring in. In this sense, I believe that this should also be a push in this direction today, so that we can actually implement these changes.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e9657	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We come to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky, ladies and gentlemen, on investment in its own levy for executive officials. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herbert, colleagues, on the extension of the E2b supplement. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[16:41:59]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00196_d7e9715	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 2247/A(E) to 2250/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Questions 14346/J to 14372/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 16.43 p.m., which is immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
