ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5087	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I will open the session and ask you to go to your places. The official protocols of 211 and 212. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: In June 2013, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported to be Grossruck, Kickl, Mag. Unspoiled, singer, Mag. Honey and Ing. Westenthaler. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5121	I announce that the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Rudolf Hundstorfer is represented today by Federal Minister Alois Stöger. [[09:06:19]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5151	From the Federal Electoral Authority, the notices have come that Members Dr. Günther Kräuter and Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer have renounced their mandates and Mrs Mag. Karin Greiner and Hans-Jörg Jenewein were newly appointed to the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formulas and calling for names through the writing, the new mandates will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I'm looking for the writer now, Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer, to read the vow formula. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5205	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” By name call by the writer Mag. Mr Lohfeyer, the Members of Parliament are Mag. Karin Greiner (SPÖ) and Hans-Jörg Jenewein (FPÖ) are fishing with the words “I praise”.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5242	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[09:07:30]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5269	Mr Klubobmann Bucher spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5295	Madam President. High house! We object to the agenda because we have been discussing and negotiating in this House for over half a year now to ban constitutional speculation. The excitement was at first very great, the effort was also very great. In the end, however, the government parties have left red and black the courage to enforce the heads of state and state and to write a ban on speculation in the Constitution. We want this ban on speculation to be dealt with here in the National Council, that it comes to the agenda, at the very top of it, in a prominent place so that we can actually implement it in the interests of citizens, taxpayers in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5326	You heard the objections. Mr Klubobmann Bucher made written objections to the agenda for today's sitting in writing within the meaning of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure. The objections are intended to put the reports of the Committee on Budgets 2183 to 2187 of the Supplements on today's agenda. I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. Since there is no word for this, I shall also vote for it. I would ask those Members who want to take account of the objections – that is, to put the reports of the Committee on Budgets as Agenda items 1 to 5 on today’s agenda – in order to be a sign of approval. – It does not find the majority. The agenda for today's sitting, which has been communicated in writing, remains valid. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. [[09:09:59]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5374	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: “Fathers are not a banknote!” [[Call:And mothers are not bumpers]] Mr Klubobmann Bucher is the first to speak. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5403	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have chosen a theme for today's current hour, which is actually a very high concern in Austria, if you look more closely at family policy conditions in our country. It is about the situation of the divorced fathers, it is about, even once the lightning on those birds. In this context, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is pleased to note that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. This is necessary in the sense of an equal society and, above all, an equal family policy, where the child's well-being, where also the well-being of mothers, but of course, also the well-being of fathers must be taken equally into account. And the situation of the divorced fathers, ladies and gentlemen, is often marked by distress and distress. Many fathers who are divorced often have no basis of existence and are often unable to establish a new family. That is why, in the current hour, we want to point the headlight at the population group in our country, which has been neglected in recent years and which no one has actually looked at. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Strache and Mr Ing. Hofer.]] It is true that we have a right of maintenance and we also have a family policy that is no longer close enough to life – to the lives of people, to the lives of the family, to the reality of life of our citizens. Therefore, we want to change some things in maintenance law and point out that in Austria we currently have 1.1 million people living in patchwork families. It is no longer true that the old family image of the last millennium is applied, but we need to focus on changing forms, conditions of human cohabitation, family start-up, in order to take the right measures and make decisions. 17 000 divorces per year, my honours Ladies and gentlemen, where 19 000 children are affected are a fact and an indication that society is changing and we must take account of these changes. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On all these injustices in family law, in maintenance law, the only important and right principle for us is: A common care must be implemented! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Children are entitled to mother and father. If we succeed in allowing all the parties in this House to bring the child's well-being to the centre of all family policy considerations and measures, then we are right, because the children want an intact family, and they want a mother and a father. They do not want to have a father who has been divorced, but they want to have an active father – with the right to visit, ladies and gentlemen, for his own children. This is not a matter of course today, and we want to do so on a regular basis. The rule must therefore be that divorced fathers also have access to their children and that they are also considered to be entitled to education. Probably every one of you knows a divorced mother or a divorced father, knows the worries and the necessities, knows the circumstances in which they are then pushed into. And we should make it our goal that, as far as child welfare is concerned, we do not distinguish whether the child comes from a first marriage or has come into the world in a second life relationship. Every child has to be worth a lot – and that, of course, before the law! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want to create a basis of existence for these divorced fathers, on which they can build a new life in a new partnership and do not deny them an existence by leaving no financial basis for them to enter into a new relationship, to create a new family. Therefore, it is important to limit maintenance services to 50 percent of income. Up to 50 percent of income may be available for maintenance. Currently we have a minimum of 783 € in Austria, in the Federal Republic of Germany it is 1 150 €. Therefore, it is also necessary to raise the minimum of existence. I give you an example of a divorced father with two children, who is actually one of the somewhat better earners. He gets 1 800 € net and has to pay 684 € per month for his two children. Only €116 will be available for the re-establishment of a family. Now I ask you: How should a divorced father create a family with €116 per month? How does that work? – That’s impossible! That is, we do not allow a divorced father – due to his obligations to do – to establish a further life relationship and a happy family. Therefore, it is necessary that we treat all children the same after deduction of the minimum of existence – whether they come from a first marriage or from a second life relationship. Every child has to be worth a lot – that is our foreign exchange and our political approach! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the other side Page there are vulnerable mothers, many mothers, who are unable to live by the maintenance they get from the father or often do not get them, of course – completely right. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] We don't want to take anything away with our new family model. We only want to ensure equal rights. This is the approach we have, because many mothers have no access to the father's maintenance services because he either cannot fulfil them or is unemployed. That means that the state has to jump into the intermediate. The state must ensure that these mothers also have money for their children, and there must be a state-backing advance, ladies and gentlemen! This is an important social policy measure, because what can be more important than a family or a child? It is therefore very crucial and important to implement this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Many fathers suffer that due to the high maintenance services they no longer have money for their second family. It is therefore necessary for the State to support it by one thing, namely that maintenance services are at least 50 percent deductible from the tax. A 50 percent deductibility creates a larger financial space to finance the second family as well. This is an important family policy measure from our point of view to help those who are in a new founding situation after divorce also financially on their feet. So we want a better job for mothers, fathers and, of course, children. This is our family policy approach. We want to combat this paternal poverty in Austria and ensure that the share of fathers increases again, that fathers regain courage by getting these financial spaces. We want these fathers to be able to develop further in an equal society and to have a right to help and listen to them and that their circumstances of life are finally taken into account by politics!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5520	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Karl spoke in response to a preliminary statement. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5543	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Klubobmann Bucher mentioned that there is a large number of patchwork families today. – You are right: Family structures have changed. This is a fact, whether we like it or not, whether we want it or not: It's reality. Of course, this reality must also be adapted to family law, and we have done so with the family law package. I would remind you that in December of the previous year, you decided here in the National Council to amend the Childhood and Name Rights Act 2013. They have thus taken a very conscious view of the subject matter that it is best for the child when mother and father are there for the child. With regard to today's theme, this also means that the father-child relationship, like the mother-child relationship of course, is not simply to be reduced to the maintenance performance. In this sense, the law has been seen since 1. Therefore, February 2013 explicitly states that reliable contacts between the child and both parents and key reference persons and secure ties between the child and these persons are of crucial importance for the child. The fact that both fathers and mothers are just money machines that have to pay for their children on demand without having any rights has therefore given the Austrian legislator a clear rejection. Mr Klubobmann Bucher also mentioned that child welfare must be brought into the centre of the judicial decision. - I'll give you the right thing. We have also implemented this with the family law package already mentioned. For the first time, we have defined the child's well-being in detail by law. Thus, the child's well-being is the benchmark for all decisions at the Family Court – regardless of whether it is about contact law or whether it is about care, et cetera. But let me take a little further on this important subject. The Austrian family law does not distinguish between fathers and mothers in the area of care, contact law and maintenance; both are to be treated equally. It is therefore not true that mothers automatically have more rights and fathers automatically more obligations with regard to children. – No, our legal situation is really clear: The rights and duties of the parents are the same for fathers and mothers! This also applies to the children’s relationship with their parents. A child has a right to father and mother alike. Of course, I also know that the classical role model – the mother takes care of the children, the father works – is often lived, though not always. This is also reflected in the distribution of legal roles with or after the separation of parents. Often the mother primarily cares for the children and thus also meets their maintenance obligation. The father provides money and has contact and information rights. This cliché, however, is by no means predetermined or favored by family law. In the same way, this shows practice in more and more frequent cases, more and more cases with reverse signs. That is, the father primarily cares for the children that Mother works and pays Alimente. Of course, there are also these cases. In this context, it is especially important to me to note that care and contact law on the one hand and maintenance for the children on the other hand are quite different pairs of shoes. The operation or non-function of contact or information rights cannot be decisive for maintenance. There is no need for any dispute between the parents on the back of the children. And above all, they must not go at the expense of the children. Of course, entertainment is something quite different than a premium for the child’s well - being or for the welfare of the other parent. Both aspects need to be seen separately. Otherwise, children are in danger of getting under the wheels through the discussion of their parents. I am well aware that there have sometimes been massive problems with the right to visit in practice in the past. That is why improvements in this area have also been a very important focus in the reform of family law. From the right of visit, the right of contact became the right of contact, because I believe that no parent should be a mere visitor of a child. A parent must be more than a visitor. A parent must also have the opportunity to live everyday life with the child. In new family law there is also a new catalogue of measures which makes contact law more enforceable, because this has always been a great criticism: How can one better enforce the earlier right of visit, the right to contact today, in both directions? – With the Family Law Package, childship law has really been significantly improved in the area of contact law and care – always with the focus on what is best for the child and what is best suited to the child’s well-being. But let me take a closer look at three very central points of this new family law. Firstly, the creation of family aid. This is a very important instrument for supporting families and family judges. Family judicial assistance consists of social workers, psychologists and psychologists, educators and educators. At the beginning of the procedure, they have the task of interacting with parents that parents should again focus on the needs of children. They must not forget that in the course of a dispute with parents, there are diseases, injuries, and with the help of the family court, parents should be able to put these injuries and infirmities back and again focus on the children's needs, on the children's needs. It is the task of the Family Justice Service to work as far as possible at the beginning of the procedure on a common solution of the parents, because it is best for the children if there is a common solution of the parents quickly. ==References== In July 2013, the first stage of the national extension of family court aid began. We have now set up the Family Court Aid in all agglomerations in Austria, and until the 1st century. In July 2014, the Family Court was set up in Austria. We have also introduced a new instrument, the so-called visitor. The visitor has the task of supporting parents, the right to visit, new: the right to contact and to be able to live in practice. We see very often that although the court lays down the right of contact, in practice the parents do not live because there are resentments or problems. This is where the visitor starts. The visitor should help to ensure that the contact law is actually implemented in practice, actually lived. In this context, the new phase of provisional parental responsibility is also important. This is quite simply a matter of making a preliminary decision quickly so that it does not come from a parent because of a long court procedure to alienate the child. We want the child to be in touch during this period of provisional parental responsibility. the parents. It is also very important that both parents take responsibility at this stage. Both parents are meant to exercise rights and duties for the child, because of course responsibility is to exercise rights and duties. And both parents are interested in entering this phase constructively, because their behaviour at this stage will also involve the final decision on care. The second point I would like to address is the common care as a rule case. I've already mentioned: I'm convinced that it's best for the child when Mother and Father are there for the child. And that's why I'm convinced that the common care for the child is usually best. That is why we have established rules which will make common care a regular case, because, unlike in the past, even in the case of divorces, the court has the opportunity to entrust the parents with the common care. In the event of a disputed divorce, there was only the possibility to entrust either mother or father with the care. Now there is also the possibility of entrusting both parents with the common care, and that will become a regular case. This is already the result of the literature on the Childhood and Name Rights Amendment Act 2013, where it is said that, in the absence of other points of evidence, the court has doubts that the common care should not be assigned to the sole care of a parent. – Of course, I agree with this literature fully. The third point I would like to address from the family law package concerns the full right of application of the fathers. Remember that we have been sentenced by the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court because it was possible for the mother to prevent the father from applying for care. Now the mother's veto right has been removed, and the father can also apply for care against the mother's will. And then it is up to the family judge, the family judge, to decide what corresponds best to the child's welfare in such a case. Does the common care or the sole care of one of the two parents best correspond to the child’s welfare? – This is only from the independent judge to decide by the independent judge. This decision is of course also facilitated by the accompanying measures already referred to, such as family aid or the visitor. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you see, there have been very many steps taken to strengthen the law of childhood and especially the right of contact and child welfare. These measures will, of course, not be able to solve all the problems in this area from today's point of view, and this too is quite clear, but these measures will make a significant contribution to improving the situation of all those involved. This also shows the feedback from the practice. Ladies and gentlemen! However, child welfare requires not only father and mother who care for the child personally, but also, of course, the material needs of the child must be safeguarded. And that's what I'm talking about. From the point of view of child welfare, it must be the primary concern not to disadvantage children out of failed relationships with children from working relationships. This will often not be avoided by the fact that a separation also means the disunity of the “economic community family” – under quotation marks – which is also linked to losses in this area. But the aim is clear: We must keep these losses – and thus I mean losses in the material sense, but also immaterial losses – as far as possible in limits, because we always have to keep in mind, children must be secured in their existence – and that to a substantial proportion also material existence. The responsibility for the children must be maintained regardless of the separation of the parents – and this, of course, applies to fathers and mothers alike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5647	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. First of all, Mrs Binder-Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5671	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The title of the current hour has been somewhat strange to me, because I assume that men are really not money-lighting machines, but that they are people who are compassionate, have both the sense of responsibility and feelings and act accordingly. For, ladies and gentlemen, after divorces, after divorces, I would mean, there are three categories of fathers: fathers who take their duties, their maintenance duties very seriously and also comply with them; Fathers who completely disregard these duties, shine in absence, and don't pay; and fathers who see themselves wrongfully. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned that 90 per cent of the divisions are agreed in Austria, 10 per cent of the divisions each year have problems that are not to be wiped out, but in principle they are about support, assistance and, above all, commitments to children. They also have a right to do so. Mr Klubobmann Bucher, since you meant there should not be children of different categories: The family support system in Austria makes no difference. [[Abg. Scheibner: But in maintenance!]] Even though fathers, mothers, parents separate, the responsibility for children remains upright. In my opinion, it is of course a matter of course that common solutions should be found at the adult level. Senses – the Minister has pointed out – such as infirmations, disappointments, injuries are, of course, in the event of a separation, but the common children must not be made a match in the match of the unreasonable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This issue is not there to act and argue populistly, I think it is time we had to make changes in maintenance law, close existing gaps and eliminate injustices. For example, the granting of the maintenance advance until the end of the training of children or the granting of the maintenance advance if the person obliged to pay is in detention, or the inclusion of standards of evidence in determining the maintenance. Of course, we can discuss the level and calculation of the rule requirement, but in no way, ladies and gentlemen, to the disfavor of children or to the disfavor of women. Of course, fathers and mothers have the right to a life after a separation, Mr. Klubobmann, no question, but the responsibility for life that has been led until then cannot and must not be simply given up, forgotten or denied, even if children are in this relationship. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The model of advance by the state in all cases is worthy of discussion, in my opinion. The State pays in the first instance and recovers the paid money from the respective maintenance payer, from the maintenance payer. I believe that this would be a positive approach – and many inconveniences would be eliminated by it. The fact is that the amount of the maintenance entitlement depends on the performance of the parents and the need and the age of the child, and on the one hand, a parent who lives, is cared for and cared for, thereby making his contribution to the other parent's performance of money maintenance, of so-called aliens. They're always individual decisions. This is good and right, ladies and gentlemen, to look at this aspect, that men often hold back very noble even in sincere relations when it comes to taking on housework or childcare. We know that unpaid work remains in the hands of women. The Minister has already pointed out the new family law novels and highlighted their essential points. I would like to end my remarks with a contribution by Elfriede Hammerl in the “profile”. I quote: ‘In short: The men's judges don't want traditional duties, but apparently the old privileges back." For us it is about a forward and about justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5720	Mrs Steibl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5741	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear sisters at home! In Austria, according to statistics from the Austrian Institute of Family Research, at the end of 2012, there were 780 000 couples, i.e. marriage and living communities, with children under 18 years of age in the household, with 73 000 step and patchwork families and 145 000 single mothers, of whom 9 000 single fathers were single-parents, to take the picture here. All these families, in whatever form, have decided so for themselves according to their circumstances, according to their possibilities, and I assume: for the child's well-being, knowing that the reality is sometimes different. In despair of a failed relationship, of longing to live together in a family, children are often used as a means of pressure to the partner, from mother to father, from father to mother. And in our materialistic society, we always forget that we should work more closely on parental responsibility and also force partner and parent education. In this context, I would like to express a great deal of thanks to the advisory bodies in Austria from this point of view. We have 21 men's counsellors, 437 family counsellors, 10 violence centres and 87 women's services. If one would also be useful for prevention, then there could be a few things here too, because then these places In a situation where it is not always about happiness and satisfaction, it is also possible to intervene in a supportive way. The maintenance services for the children, for the partners are often a tipping cap. Yes, I know it from many hours of speech: It is often more difficult for fathers to take it seriously only after a separation with the child, the children think when it comes to obtaining the right to visit or to record or practise the common care. But in our laws this is clearly regulated, you have to say. The parents also have the same rights and obligations to their children. Who brings in the natural achievements? Who is responsible for cash benefits? – In my opinion, we do not think that any interference on the part of politics is appropriate. No prescription has anything to look for here. But what policy has to see as a task is to create framework conditions, set priorities in family policy. And for the ÖVP, the family is the core of our society, for us the families are a matter of heart. In this context, I would just like to mention three points: The first thing for us is, of course, the child's well-being. This is the goal to give children the best start-up requirement along the way. Secondly, freedom of choice. And of course, what plays very strongly into the family is the compatibility of work and family. It is not about the compulsory division of housework, but it is about being able to create one another's life – in a professional world, in a family world. And this includes compatibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have said that policy has a role to play in creating framework conditions and, of course, this includes a mix of money and property benefits. For this, I tell you, the ÖVP with its Minister of Family and its Minister of Justice is a reliable partner. For example, we want to eliminate the wrong situation in the tax system and make courage a child, a family. In the future we want a child- and youth-free amount of € 7 000 per child, so to speak per parent and per child a free amount of € 3 500. For example, this also relieves the child's maintenance tax. Or: We have now created a claim for all parents – just to mention what we have done – for the benefit of all parents. There are now also divorced fathers or mothers who do not live in the household who are entitled to care. The Federal Minister has already mentioned the common care. The new Childhood and Name-Law Amendment Act, which has now entered into force, brings new custody and visitation regulations. Thus, empty fathers receive an application for care. In the event of disputed separation, the court may also have a common custody right against the will of the parents. Yes, and the current maintenance calculation system should, of course, be improved. We had also planned a joint survey, but it did not come about anymore. All in all, it is an important concern for the new working period or for a government programme, which concerns the well-being of the child and the well-being of our Austrian families.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5805	Mr Klubobmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5827	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the family is natural. characterized by the necessary and important living mutual responsibility of all concerned in the family, mothers and fathers towards their children, who have a right that parents also live in responsibility for their child as the social core of the family. And I think, as a rule, that every parent, every mother and father, is, of course, in this living responsibility. Unfortunately, there are, of course, problems there or there, as mentioned. And these are often deeply personal and emotional problems caused by separation, where injuries play a role and where, unfortunately, God on the back of the children is often carried out these injuries of the adults. And this is exactly what it is all about, and it is precisely there that one must ultimately try to stop unjust developments that are being carried out on the back of the children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is, of course, a very personal and emotional issue, but an important issue, because unfortunately many fathers, parents, are affected by the fact that they are reduced in reality only to providing maintenance services, but often not to receive their rights. It has now been done and implemented by law in this respect too, but it will only be seen if this is proven in reality. Because we know incredibly many cases, and there are indeed thousands of fathers, grandmothers, grandparents who are affected by the fact that children are deprived of their fathers, that fathers have rights to their child, visitation rights – which are fortunately not only reduced to the right of visit but also to the right of contact – but, and this is the decisive one, in reality often fighting before court for years and a alienation takes place when, after six or seven years, there is still no judgment and no implementation of the right to visit and contact that every parent, and thus, of course, should have, because it is the right of the child who is always lost sight of. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The child's right to both parents is very important, and that's why it has to prove in reality now. And I hope that the legal mechanisms will work in this direction in practice. What you have to say: In the case of joint care, we are not where we should go – because in the case of divorce there is not automatically the common obsor-right, as it would be reasonable and in the Federal Republic of Germany legal reality. Unfortunately, you have refused this from the Federal Government. So a judge will be turned on again, so to speak, who will then have to make this decision. It should be reversed: There should be an automatic common obsor-right – and if there are problems, then these problems should be assessed, and where it is necessary, this common obsor is to be removed. That should usually be reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And of course we have many single mothers today – we have heard it today: 145 000 single mothers – 10,000, rounded, single fathers. There is usually also poverty, where there are children, where there are families and where there are separations. There is poverty in our society today, and we must take it seriously. It is also visible for women's pay differences that women with children usually earn much less than women without children. There is usually also the wrong situation in society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must therefore make it much more important to ensure that families are supported! And, of course, a family doesn't end in the event of divorce. 50 percent of all Unfortunately, marriages are divorced in our society today, but this, of course, does not end the family, but it goes to another level of relationship. The family remains. And, of course, we must also be politically concerned about ultimately holding down this poverty trap family in general, whether families in a genuine marriage or, after divorce, families with single parents. And to do that, we need discharges! There is, of course, a need for the maintenance of tax reliefs, but it is also necessary to consider the fact that child rearing is finally appreciated – and not always playing down and pretending to be mothers at the stove. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] No, this is an incredible work and responsibility for our society, where a lot of positive things are done, which one also has to appreciate much more and also have to relieve accordingly. And I think we still have a lot to do in our society. There's not everything as optimal as you described it, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5926	Mrs Mag. Musiol now speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e5947	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speakers have all spoken of child welfare as being in the foreground. All have also spoken of the fact that divorces, divorces, emotional pains and obstacles can be overcome as well as financial ones. Of course, it is true that in many cases there are real financial difficulties here, but apart from the title that child welfare must be in the foreground, I have not heard any proposals or arguments on how to achieve this child welfare. And to both of you, Mr. Strache and Mr. Bucher, the point to be made is: If you say that child welfare must be in the foreground, and in the next sentence talk about the fathers, then that is not very credible. [[Abg. Straw: This is not credible when fathers are kept away from their children? – The child has a right to both parents! What's bad about that?]] – If you talk about the child welfare and talk about the situation of the fathers at the next moment, this is not argumentatively coherent. Then: You yourself have spoken about the poverty trap. – Yes, we know that numerous children, numerous families in Austria live in poverty. We know that there is an increased risk of poverty when it comes to single-parent, single-parent households – you yourself have spoken of 145 000 women and 9 000 people – and we also know that 31 percent of single-parents actually live below the poverty line. [[Abg. Street: "People"?]] [[Call the FPÖ:Are women not people?]] If you do a current hour here entitled “Fathers aren’t a banker!” then you absolutely discover that the first need, when it comes to the child’s well-being – that is, the well-being of the children – must be good to ensure the existence of these children! And if we know that 17 percent of children do not receive any money at all, either because of the other parent, and usually it is the father, who does not pay, or of course, because he often cannot pay, then you have to start there and then it is not about discussing long and wide over the preserved visiting rights of the fathers, but then it is primarily about ensuring the existence of the children and the mothers, but also the fathers. I therefore do not understand your argument in this regard, except as another attempt here in relation to a situation which is difficult for all parties to engage in black and white painting and to make the debate, so to speak, a victim debate for fathers. A problem is, of course, the maintenance right. We know that there are numerous gaps in this area. For example, if fathers cannot pay indebtedly, if fathers have died – or just those parents where the children do not live, but usually they are the fathers – no maintenance advance. In such a case, there is a maximum of the minimum guarantee. However, this is not at all at the level where the children's normal needs are normally granted. So we know that there is an urgent need here. We know that the procedures take too long and that there is an urgent need to do something here. These are quite orders to this Federal Government or also to the next Federal Government. In the last legislative period, we Greens have repeatedly encouraged us to really start an intensive discussion on this subject, to hold an interview on entertainment. We were the only ones who pushed this forward. It hasn't come. The reasons for this are unknown. Nobody took care of it except us. And finally, we are just standing here and having a family-political debate about the fathers, about poverty, although we have had the whole legislative period over time to change the maintenance right, to close the gaps, but also to make a family law and above all an obsoric justice which, unlike what we now have, even more allows parents to agree on this issue after separation, that there are no further problems here and that, in particular, existential protection of children is provided. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So when we talk about this issue, please leave the subject of child welfare where it belongs, namely in the security of the children's lives. As long as this is not regulated, we do not need to discuss other rights and obligations at all. For if a mother does not know what to give her child to school, how it should pay his clothes, how it should be for his food, the question is whether the father can spend sufficient time with the children, whether the grandparents can have contact with the child can understandably not the first point on the agenda. [[Abg. Strache: But you already know that fathers are not allowed to pay and their children are not allowed to see? You know that these fathers will pay and keep their children away? - That's a joke! You seem to represent only your own interests!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] One last sentence, Madam President. – To stay with your picture of the banknote, which is absolutely inappropriate: But you already know that sometimes it happens that you go to a banknote and there is “outside operation”? – And many children experience this when it comes to wanting to have contact with their fathers.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6039	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6062	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Musiol, if you have listened to our Bundesobmann in his speech, then you know that this is not a victim debate that is not about black and white painting, but about showing a problem that has not been solved in the context of a family law package. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I am also opposed to pushing this into a corner now, but I think it is right that we have chosen this provocative title. And, Mrs Musiol, you have said perfectly correctly that five years we have had time to make a modern, contemporary maintenance right – and it has happened zero. And that's the problem. Although we have made some adaptations to the common care, which have not usually led to a common care. This is, as it were, one of the many first steps that are announced in the laws again and again – and in this the government parties are actually very great to take first steps, but never complete steps, but always only half-heartednesses and compromises. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Here too, in this family law package, one should have negotiated the maintenance right. This is urgently necessary. If you look at yourself, you notice that the basic law of childhood law has never changed anything since 1977. If you read it through, you think you're in a different age! The government, the two government parties, must be blamed for having slept in this area and not having done anything. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our family image, the family image of the BZÖ, focuses on child welfare – that is so – and therefore it is independent of what relationships children are born into or in which relationships they live. But one thing for us is quite clear: The right to father and mother exists for all children. And this right to father and mother must be protected, this right must be constantly demanded by politics, and it must also be viable. We just have situations or many situations where it is impossible to live. Now you can say, well, these are individual situations, these are individual circumstances, but I think you can't do it so easily. In general, the frameworks must fit. Happy for all of us, I believe, is that in the last decades the fathers have developed very positively towards the family. The compatibility of work and family becomes more and more also a question of parents and is not only a question of mothers. Above all, the fathers want to spend more time with their children, take on more responsibility. And this must ultimately be possible, because, even if partners are divorced, parents stay for a whole lifetime, and there is no matter whether they are children from a first-time or from other relationships. Mrs Bundesminister, you have now greatly praised the Childhood Law Amendment Act, which we adopted in December 2012, but I must say that you have missed so many opportunities there, such as the chance that we would have defined the common care as a rule case and the sole concern only in the exceptional case. They have also missed the opportunity, as I have already said, to create at the same time a modern maintenance right, in which the maintenance not only depends on the father's income, but ultimately also on the care services – which we all demand that the fathers be more there for their children. We have an absolutely unclear legal situation here, which is urgently regulated, because: On the one hand, to call for responsibility to demand the care period of fathers, but on the other hand to maintain the right of maintenance under the old scheme – you have said it anyway: Mother cared for and Father pays – that can't work. You have also denied the chance in this new family law package that you will also discuss the model of a double residence. That's kind of taboo with us. Why not look at this as a possibility? There is a study in which experts say quite clearly: There are advantages, there are also disadvantages, and that is not suitable for every child and for every family equally well. This issue should be discussed once, but it is not even discussed. Finally, once again our demands – our Allianceobmann has already said it –: Maintenance right, in which the minimum living conditions for payers and dependants will not be undermined, a general maintenance advance by the State – to which I belong general or multiple consent – and, above all, a child-friendly tax system with a child-absorbing amount, which can also be divided between the individual partners, mother and father. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, it is urgently necessary to create a new reformed...
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6148	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already given you quite some time to do so. [[In the case of BZÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. Haubner.]] Mr Hagen has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6187	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are talking today about a very serious issue. There are a lot of people affected, but I will come later. I would like to say, in principle, that this family package, which was decided here in February, was a step in the right direction for the common care. It has been recognized that there are very serious problems in this area and that child welfare needs to be given priority, and this has certainly been addressed correctly in first steps. A common solution, as you have said, Mrs Minister, is reasonable, assuming that the problem should be solved well. And now I'm at the point: It should be well solved! – Ms. Binder-Maier mentioned that around 90 percent of divorces are resolved by common accord, but it is only that the procedure under the law is concluded by agreement, but then the problems begin. To this end, it must be said that these are common divorces which are often imposed by the system, in which not both partners are granted equal rights and in the end there is no reasonable solution. And then the problems come, and if children are in play, then it will be quite problematic, because then comes the problem of contact law, which is negotiated and often not respected. The problem is that the children become the playing ball of the ex-partners and the child welfare is no longer in the foreground. Thus, children are often deliberately deprived of the ex-partner, for example, it is pretended that the child is ill. In any event, the right of visit often cannot be exercised, and the means of enforcement in this respect are very limited. – I often deal with such problems in my civil profession as a police officer. However, the police are not responsible for this because it is a matter of private law, and then the problems begin. I really want to address the specific problems now. The problem, if a child is abstained and the right to visit is not respected, is that the ex-partner concerned can not really take legal action or take legal action at any later date, and then it is of course difficult to prove that the child has actually been abstained. – This way there will be major problems. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now taking an example from practice. Imagine the child's father standing in front of the door and wanting to pick up the child – that is regulated by law, that was decided by the judge – but the child's mother doesn't give up. Then the father has the opportunity to impose the right of visit by means of a lawyer to impose expensive money in court, and it is of course always difficult to prove why the child was deprived. I have mentioned this before: It is often claimed that the child is sick or whatever. I see major problems there. After the SPG, in connection with the directions, there is a Journal Judge who decides on this. Why is this not possible with the right to visit? I think that would be a real step and a good tip for you, Mrs. Minister: They could implement the possibility that this journal judge will also have the opportunity to be available on such matters and to make interim orders in the district courts. So it could really be proved that a child was abstained. I would like to give some examples of the practice. A friend turned to me: He has the children about half of the month, but pays for the children. [[Abg. Lueger: There is no such thing as that!]] - Yes, it is! The mother gives the children, when they are with her, to the grandparents and almost does not care for them. He then spoke at court and tried to get the care of the children because they are usually with him anyway. The mother then wanted an increase, and when he took this step to get his children completely, the lady went here and told the children that they were no longer allowed to go to the dad because the dad would not give them any more money so that they could buy something. – Ladies and gentlemen! These are examples of how it actually works in practice. You should look at that! There are the problems, and they are not solved. Mrs. Minister, you could help people through instructions and internal regulations at the District Courts, that they will come to their right and that, above all, the children will be entitled to see their father or mother, depending on how the situation is. The children have this need. I know a second case, which I would like to tell you briefly: Again, the father has no chance of seeing the child. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Mother always says the child doesn't want to see the father. There's always something going on with the child. The father does not come to his right, he can only contact the child through school, and that is the wrong way. Ladies and gentlemen, something has been changed in this respect.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6235	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6256	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to return to the issue which the BZÖ has raised today with Mr Bucher, and to bring a few more facts. Yes, there are 1.1 million patchwork families. There are 17 000 divorces per year. And it is true, Mr Hagen: 90 percent of these divorces are agreeable, and you can't regulate with any law in the world that the parents don't carry out their personal ailments on the back of the children. Unfortunately, you won't do that! And the worst thing about it is for me: Of these, 19 000 children are affected. There are 176,000 single-parents in total, as I now deliberately say neutral. 30 percent of single parents are at risk of poverty, and 12 percent of them live in manifest poverty. Mr Bucher! You said at your press conference yesterday that you do not want to have a rule for child support, but rather that this Düsseldorf list or Düsseldorf table should be applied. Continue writing two paragraphs However, it shall: If the father doesn't pay, then the rule must apply to the child. – With this in mind, I think: You haven't thought it all out and are very polemic! Let's get back to the facts. Money maintenance is the responsibility of the parent who does not live in the household with the common child and the other parent does his share through the care. The money maintenance obligation – and there is the second mistake when you said that a father cannot be taxed beyond his income – is calculated from the average income level and amounts to 18 percent for zero to six years, 20 percent for six to ten years and 22% for ten to 15 years of age. This is the basis of which it is expected and from which a little can be deducted, but I still come. The representatives of the BZÖ believe that fathers not only have to pay support but also care for their children. - Yes. To that end, we have the Childhood Law Amendment Act. This is true – it seems to have forgotten colleague Haubner – since 1. February of this year, and after that, men would have the opportunity to take care of their children's daily life, and there would be a lot of opportunity. Unfortunately, a microcensus survey confirms that there is an absolutely uneven treatment between women and men in the family task: Not even fathers in upright marriage participate almost equally in child care. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: How did you get this? What are you telling me? That's probably your own opinion!]] However, if you think that living men separated from their families have to pay too much for maintenance, I would like to resist the following: The maximum maintenance limits for children are based on a 1964 consumer survey, and I have already asked you, Mrs Minister, why this value has not been renewed. The values of the shopping cart – you know that very well, because we always talk about the consumer price index – are increased every five years. However, the values of the 1964 consumer survey have never been changed. The credit of the family allowance already favours special well-earned fathers tax, and this tax relief is deducted by the children. The Judicature regarding special needs is very restrictive, i.e., school-school courses or extraordinary promotions are imposed on maximum fathers who pay only the rule requirement. And if a father deliberately fails to provide an opportunity to earn, then the child gets only the simple rule requirement anyway. Care costs that the mother has in addition when she may go to work must be borne alone. In addition, fathers may only deduct a fictitious rent from the maintenance for the child if both wife and child remain in the former dwelling. This reduces this rule requirement that I have previously explained to you. In case of above-average care, i.e. if there are more than five visiting days per month by the father if he does not live in the common household, there may also be a reduction in the allowance, up to a level of 20 percent. There is also this so-called Playboy border so that there can be no overalimentation for children. This is twofold the rule requirement for up to ten years and two and a half times the rule requirement for over ten years. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Positive throughout the story is that the Childhood Rights Amendment Act is aimed at child welfare. Maintenance gapes are closed, and ministers Mitterlehner and Hundstorfer have revitalized the challenges to family policy in the last Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6309	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6330	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This has been referred to several times, and I would like to clarify it once again for the EIA. We are trying to shape all the legislation that has to do with children in such a way that the child's well-being is always the focus. Our first principle is: The child welfare is the benchmark for all legal designs. The second principle is: We want children to continue to have father and mother in the event of a failed relationship with their parents. The third principle is: Fathers and mothers should and must have equal rights and obligations. At these anchoring points, we have been able to make significant improvements together in the current legislative period. We have defined twelve points to which the courts are bound in the assessment of child welfare, and in future the courts are very precise. It has rightly been criticised several times that procedures take too long, and we have put in place measures to speed up procedures. 140 more family judges were recruited, and the institutions of the Family Court and the Visitors were created. A previous speaker said critically that the right to contact, which we have placed in place of the right of visit, is sometimes difficult to enforce, especially for fathers, if mothers show no willingness to grant the father his rights. – For this there is now the institution of the visitor. It has already proved its worth in the first place. Visitors are people who have been trained accordingly, as mediators, who enjoy the confidence of both sides and can ensure that the child's most important contact experience with both parents is actually implemented. – This is certainly more important for fathers than for mothers. We have ensured through common care and this contact law that in the future children will normally benefit from a common concern even in the course of divorces and in particular disputed divorces. There is also a substantial improvement for the fathers. In this respect, we have had a regulatory deficit which has always proved painful for fathers in recent years. Now, dead fathers have been granted a right of application, an unlimited right of application, to care, and it is the courts and not the mothers who decide whether to grant such an application. – Mr Strache is no longer here: He expressed concern, among other things, but I can tell him that this concern has already been taken into account. Let me conclude by saying the following: Yes. I also regret that we have no longer come to a comprehensive reform, which is necessary, and that we have not been able to implement the planned surveys already prepared by the Ministry of Justice in the broad outlines. But that will certainly be one of the first priorities in family and child law in the new legislative period. It is clear that: Children must be mentally and materially protected in their existence, and the failure of the parents' relationship must not result in the child being put in a worse position or even at risk in its economic base. In particular, it is necessary to amend and simplify procedural law in a reform. For example, different future acceleration options are to be discussed and then introduced by us. All in all, it is true that there is still something open, especially in maintenance law. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It is equally true, however, that in this legislative period we have succeeded in a large number of decisive improvements.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6397	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6419	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Honestly, I have to say: It is a somewhat embarrassing discussion that we are having here today. In this context, we have a very serious problem: It is certainly true, if the title was something – as I would like to say – in need of habit, that some fathers simply feel like a banknote. But this is not because the fathers are so evil and only have to pay or not to pay. And that is exactly the criticism I have in this debate today. We have ideologies here that collide. I have a bit of a feeling that, especially from the SPÖ, only fathers who have nothing else to do were talking about how evil the fathers are, who do not participate in anything and do not pay in any way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stutter.]] In principle, I think we should divide this discussion once and for all. On the one hand, it is about the maintenance right. These are the questions: How do fathers pay? Are fathers willing and willing to pay on a regular basis? On the other hand, we are dealing with the care units. Of course, it should not happen that fathers who say on the one hand, now I don't see my child anymore, so I don't pay anything anymore, or on the other hand, that's all too much for me to make the child play ball. This is deeply opposed, but something like that happens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore believe that we need to decouple these two points so that we have a thrust and the maintenance performance is seen separately from them. In principle, however, the discussion also shows one thing: that children generally lead to poverty, that our family support in the way we have it today is obviously not sufficient. Mr Lueger, I think, mentioned the following figures: 19 000 children of divorce live in poverty. That must not be the case in Austria! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] There is a failure, namely an overall failure in Austrian family policy. We have to start there, too, and there is a need for action. I know, Minister Karl, that you are not directly responsible now, you are not the Minister of Family Affairs, but there is a real need for action, and we also need to talk about it intensively. But now on the legal side and on the subject of common care: There is still no automatic joint care in Austria. This has also prevented your male hater, Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek. That's a fact. We would have liked to have the automatic common care for all children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also believe that this is the right way, because the Federal Republic of Germany shows that it works. And it also works there, because parents have the damn duty to take care of their children together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier.]] – You can get out again and talk here, but save your calls, you don’t understand them anyway. So this is really a manko in Austria. And I'm going to show you this on the basis of an example, Mrs. Federal Minister, on the basis of a family. The parents are divorced. The mother submits the application for sole care, it is rejected by the court and the sole care is transferred to the father. This is very rare in Austria and in itself that something like this happens at all. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Poor woman!]] Poor woman! I immediately believe that you say ‘poor woman’. The woman at court: The man is violent, he beats me, I want the sole care. The court orders an expert who comes to a completely different conclusion. In fact, the matter is exactly the other way round: The woman has been violent against the children – but for you this is the “poor woman”. That's exactly the zeitgeist you're living in! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is your family policy, and that is why we stand where we stand today. And that is why we have to have such debates here today, because your family policy is one of ideologies that goes completely beyond the families that completely pass through the inter-eating of children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For you, children are just a means for the purpose, just a means of pressure that you give to women. And that's wrong, because with it you're breaking the souls of the children, which is sustainable. You should also consider this in your ideology. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, brief on this case: The father receives the sole care from the court, but the mother refuses the children to the father. For two years, this story is moving back and forth. And finally, in the second instance, it says – and that literally in it – that, because of the mother's bonding situation to the children, the measures could not be taken and the existing care regime could not, unfortunately, be accepted by God, because the Father is alienated from the children, and this has led to complete father's abduction; although the father had originally been granted the sole care, but he was estranged, the children now come to the mother. This is the real scandal, and you're talking about the “poor woman” – so I'm really wondering! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Faith Do you really think that these children can be truly healthy in such a situation in which the mother is found to be violent? Mrs. Federal Minister, this shows that your courts are obviously failing in this case. There are judgments, but they are not executed. There is a need for action, Mrs Minister, and we are far from finished.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6522	Mr Mag. Steinhauser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6544	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear BZÖ, the title “Fathers are not a banknote!” has completely failed you. Listen to me! Fathers do not see themselves as banknotes, fathers are not seen by mothers and children as banknotes, nor are fathers actually no banknotes. This is a black and white painting, which does not help us further, the same black and white painting, as when colleague Belakovich-Jenewein goes out and presents SPÖ delegates who bring a view of women as male haters. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] This is a black-and-white painting, where we are bunking in tombs and come to no solutions. That's unscrupulous. Mr. Klubobmann Bucher, when we talk about father's rights, we also need to talk about your "professional father's rights" Stiglmayr; he is a deputy BZÖ-Obmann in Lower Austria. In an area demonstration to the rainbow parade, this man has been taken to account for the following statement against gays: “All these people are just lucky. They live in a country that gives them the freedom to live this unnatural desire to live this abnormality too.” He also says: “We don’t kill you.” After how generous! Mr Widmann will still be speaking; I expect there to be a removal of the BZÖ here, I also expect there to be consequences of personnel. I'll tell you something. I'm writing to fathers who want to make sure that I know as a green judge that they don't have anything to do with such people as Mr. Stiglmayr. They want to do it because they find that such people hurt the fathers. That's the fact. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, back to the subject: The key to paternal participation is that fathers will be able to participate in family work from the beginning. The relationship work at the beginning, when it is not yet about separation, when it is usually about children coming to the world that fathers bring themselves into family work in the same form, is the guarantee of success that a relationship with the fathers arises. That's 50/50 in education. That means 50/50 in the care and care, cooking, cleaning, laundry. That means 50/50 when there are school problems. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a relationship between the children and the fathers. But if we look at the numbers, then we see that unfortunately it is still so that only a very small part of the fathers goes in karenz or partcarence. I want it to be natural for fathers to go in Karenz the same way as mothers. I know that's not always easy, not all service providers understand that. I am familiar with the stories where termination is threatened, where career losses are placed in the room. But all these are fates that, of course, concern women. And we in Parliament must ensure that it is natural for fathers to go in Karenz and thus create a bond with the children, who will then also be in difficult family situations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When it comes to separation, this is actually not a simple situation, and we have to find that it always breaks down the relationship between the children and the fathers. There are many reasons for this, for example, professional reasons – fathers reorientate and leave – or family reasons – fathers remarry, and contact with the old family rips off. A reason is also high-conflict separation, where these conflicts are then carried out in civil and supervisory disputes. But here too: Unilateral representations do not help us any further. It won't be enough to put the mother's guilt in the shoes. We need to work on solutions in high-conflict cases. And we have always proposed that we try to solve these problems in a family conciliation centre and not in court because we know that the best solutions are those developed jointly by fathers and mothers. Once again on the topic of “Bankomat”: The maintenance obligation is not a banknote function, but an important prerequisite for child rearing. Of course, we have a problem: low maintenance heights, maintenance that is not paid, on the one hand, and on the other – and here I see a need for change among the fathers – the possibility that in the case of maintenance debts under the minimum of existence is executed. That means that fathers can be executed once again under the minimum of existence and then actually little left to live. I have a relatively clear position here: Maintenance debts before forwarding debts. The minimum existence must be absolute, and maintenance debts must be privileged to other debts. That would be the solution. This would also help fathers in difficult financial situations, which always represent divorces. In this sense, one must continue to discuss the subject with the necessary seriality. Black and white painting does not help. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6629	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6652	Madam President. High house! That was to be expected now, Mr Steinhauser, but I say quite clearly in the direction of the Greens: Whoever has a Causa dönmez with all her facets in this green, supposedly democratic party, should not express himself on the Causa Stiglmayr. Ladies and gentlemen! I spoke very briefly with Mr Stiglmayr and told him that the choice of words he has made is totally unacceptable, is not tolerated by us and is not a party line either. - Point one. Point two: Mr Stiglmayr has told me that he is apologizing for this and it will no longer happen. They will not be able to demand from us – point three – that we put a young family father who himself has care obligations on the street at the call of the Greens. We will certainly not do that, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that's really what it's all about. Once you have to see what has been posted in the Causa Dönmez on Facebook, up to comparison with the Third Reich, where there was no excuse on the part of the Greens. So come at your own door! But now on the subject itself: 1.1 million affected patchwork families – Mrs Minister, this is a big topic. I sometimes wonder where the representatives of the SPÖ and also of the Greens live. Which world do you live in? We know that of speaking in the street, where fathers come to us and say: I can't afford life anymore, I'm put on up to 25 percent under the minimum of existence. Why does politics fail me just because I'm a father? And I confess to my children – the fathers say so too – I want to be there for my children, and I also want to take responsibility. And I want to pay for it, too. You also have to let the fathers live in this country. And that's exactly what it's all about. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, the whole story usually begins before marriage. Then one swears one another, one will appreciate one another, love and honor one another. Then, in many marriages with child rearing, the pragmatism of marriage is added. And some marriages fail for whatever reason. But there must also be a life after it, for everyone – for men, for women, but especially for children. Today, child welfare has often been discussed, and this must be the focus. But what I don't want is a gender struggle. What I don't want are party political slogans like from the Greens. I want a proper matrimonial right, a family law and also an obsorial right, which will also make everyone live in the future. Mrs. Minister, you have a lot to do with this, because the 2013 Childhood Rights Amendment Act has left many gaps. We have already mentioned this. The term “child welfare” has been defined – positive. There is common care, but only in sub-areas. She's got a lot of gaps. Some men have to prove themselves for up to six months, empty fathers have to apply for them first. There is also no enforcement of the right to visit or contact, as you say. It's not the concept. It is actually about the fact that fathers may also spend time with their children when they pay for it. And there is the saying: “Whoever buys, who pays!” – or vice versa – and therefore the naturally distinctive Comparison with the banknote. Many fathers simply see themselves that way, and you have to take note of that. Or: Why is there not a double residence in this new right? Why is the principle of tension not finally met if fathers are placed up to 25 percent under the minimum of existence? This is currently 783 € – 25 percent less. So how's someone going to get out? – I just can't do that! And why should someone even work in such a case? Therefore, we will have to regulate how in the future, on the one hand, we will satisfy the children that they have a minimum standard, of course. But it can't be that you have to pay up to double or two and a half times the rule requirement – the so-called Playboy border – that students from the father get €1 300 and the father no longer knows how to get the money if he earns perhaps €2 500 or €3 000, if at all. These are the topics. Next: the partner. Nor can it be that once someone has married, he sees the man as a life insurance until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. That too is unfair. This is also understood by many women, especially the secondary women of men, who then come to the situation that they are women of second class and also the children of secondary relations are children of second class. We don't want to. These are things we need to discuss. It is therefore important to us that we separate the care process from the divorce procedure, I believe that this would also be desirable in the sense of objectivity for us to upgrade the family judgeship, also through a better training that we rethink the maintenance services. Let us make a survey and consider the following questions: How is it with justice, with the need? What about abuse? Do we really want children and mothers to be disadvantaged in second marriage? - We don't want to. We believe that the regulation should look so that the maintenance of the wife must be paid a maximum of 30 times. The state makes this the other way round, the state pays the child's allowance also for 30 months, and then the obligation to provide it is compulsory. And then you'll have to discuss whether a woman can be entertained for life or whether that's over at some point. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] There are a lot of construction sites. There's an abuse. There are things where parents and children pay a lot – in court fees, in youth welfare. There's a whole divorce industry. And that is why we must do much to give children, mothers and fathers a better outcome in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6748	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:35:35]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6769	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6903	The debate on points 1 and 2, 7 to 9, 10 to 14, 15 to 24, 25 and 26, 28 and 29, 30 to 37 and 40 and 41 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6927	The Club Team Stronach has according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question 15326/J by Mrs Ing. Lugar, colleague and colleague at the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection concerning: Trade union blocked – economic loss, urgent treatment. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a short debate on the reply to the question 14186/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6948	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question 14499/J by Mr Hagen, Mr Colleagues on the Immission Protection Act Air by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e6974	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8.5 “Vienna hours” was agreed. According to the preliminary redistribution of the speaking time within a “Wien hour” for 8.5 “Vienna hours” the following speaking times are: SPÖ and ÖVP each 119, FPÖ 106, Green 94, BZÖ 81 and Stronach 68 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. Whoever gives this consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:37:52]] 1. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (2361, e.g._Other Organiser 2. Agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the countries of Lower Austria, Upper Austria and Vienna on flood protection projects in the area of the Austrian Danube (2471 D.B.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 2355/A(E) by Mr Anton Heinzl, Dr Martin Bartenstein, colleagues on 2. Ver- In accordance with Article 15a B-VG on flood protection projects in the area of the Austrian Danube, accelerated implementation of the planned projects (2472 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7038	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Heinzl, to whom I speak today's 60. Birthday cordially congratulates you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7071	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the congratulations. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in recent weeks, it has shown how important it is to take action and make the necessary means for flood protection available. After all, the flood in June 2013 clearly showed us that disasters such as the so-called centennial floods can occur at relatively short intervals. And an important lesson from this second huge flood in just eleven years is that effective protection from floods means a race with time to prevent truly human suffering. All of us here in the High House now work together to protect the people in Austria and ensure that the planned flood protection projects along the Danube are implemented significantly faster than planned. In the last Committee on Transport on 19 November, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. In June, with the support of all the political groups here in the House, we therefore adopted a resolution calling on the Federal Government to promote financing and to speed up the implementation of the planned projects. High house! The Federal Government has also reacted very quickly because of the worse economic situation. The promotion of flood protection has been included in the economic programme, and in my view this economic package shows very clearly that economic development and jobs are the top priority in us. Not for nothing, ladies and gentlemen, Austria has the lowest unemployment in the European Union and is now the second strongest economic force in the European Union. This economic package will further strengthen the focus on employment; over 60 000 jobs will be created through targeted investments under the economic package. The flood protection measures also create employment. The promotion of protection measures at the Danube alone creates 1 100 additional jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! Our wife, Federal Minister Bures, has encouraged this preference after the foreign exchange: Whoever helps quickly helps twice. Further investment in flood protection is worth double and triple. Jobs are created and we protect people in the affected areas. The completion of the flood protection measures planned in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology along the Danube will be achieved by an early disbursement of funds by four years earlier, i.e. that the protection measures will be completed in 2019 – instead of as planned in 2023. We build on good preliminary work in flood protection. 17 flood protection projects along the Danube with an actual total volume of € 279.4 million have already been completed and have passed their probation test in the high century water in June of this year. 17 other projects are currently under construction, planning or preparation; they aim at the 15a agreements between the Federal Government and the federal states of Upper Austria, Lower Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany. According to Vienna, it will be built in the next ten years, until 2023. This deadline – and this is the most important – is now shortened. € 400 million will be allocated by the Federal Government, countries and Communities are jointly invested in flood protection on the Danube. This protects tens of thousands of people in the communities who do not yet have effective protection. However, there are still some other measures in the economic package for the floods and flood victims. For example, the budget for federal water construction as well as the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation for ten years will be increased to € 200 million annually. For flood-affected companies in the field of production, tourism is expected to provide up to €400 million free of interest. These loans start at €10,000 and go up to €7.5 million. Support for thermal rehabilitation will also be open to certain flood protection measures or to repair certain flood damage. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that we will not have to experience such floods for a long time now, and if so, we are twice prepared. In particular, the countless helpers, with their voluntary commitment – a warm thanks for it – have shown in the use of disasters that the Austrians hold together and help each other in difficult situations. But also politics, ladies and gentlemen, can help with measures to protect against floods – like those we decide here today – to ensure that the people of Austria can continue to live and live safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7122	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7144	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Anton Heinzl, even from me good for the sixties! Welcome to the club! I am on the day exactly a month older than you – I know, you see – and I'm just saying one thing: [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ and Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] I could not imagine a more beautiful place where you can celebrate your sixtieser than here in the high house, with a speech as early in the morning. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] - Not so far. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, a total of €675 million has been installed in these years and around the Danube for flood protection. Anton Heinzlhat said he hopes that it won't come back to such a flood as soon as possible. – We said that in 2002. Eleven years have passed. Whether it is now a hundred years old or a hundred years old, I do not know, but it should only happen every 100 years according to statistics. In particular, you would be told by statisticians: This can be a coincidence, because on average, over 1,000 years, it happens every 100 years; it can happen once every eleven years. An unpleasant feeling in the stomach area We have already said the same thing after eleven years, and in part it was more dramatic, partly less dramatic, even because of the effectiveness of mobile flood protection buildings. In Eferdinger Becken, however, it was more dramatic, more dramatic; there is also a discussion about how the measures were, and there are also investigations by the ministries in progress. Thus, it is understandable that representatives of the Federal Government and the countries concerned, Upper Austria, Lower Austria and Vienna, had already assembled months ago to raise the current state of the art in the field of flood protection buildings on the basis of the 2006 measures. It is a coincidence that this article 15a agreement has now been completed before this new flood occurred. Mrs Bundesminister, the position once taken by you, under Chancellor Schüssel, would not have happened in terms of flood protection, is absolutely incomprehensible to me. On the contrary: In 2006, these € 420 million were decided; at that time mobile flood relief was developed, which has now proved to be so meaningful and protective. So I would ask you to stick to the facts and not to change political change. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now, therefore, federal government and countries have updated this. A period of 2023 – Anton Heinzlhat already said it – was foreseen; it is clear that in the light of the events of the last weeks and the floods, the Minister has already formulated this in a Council of Ministers: By 2019, this will happen now, with another 20 buildings planned, as mentioned, with a volume of 255 million in addition to the 420 million that have already been decided. - That's it! The days have passed when the media had to send images – shaking and depressing images – from the floodwater areas. Now it is going to clean up in the truest sense of the word. Now the actual extent of the damage and the damage becomes known. Now you go into the muddy, shoddy cellars and houses and see what's broken there, what's become total damage. People need help and also experience help in a unique way: Neighborhood aid, assistance from fire brigades, assistance from our soldiers and soldiers – basic defenses are above all – and help also from politically responsible agencies and – that I add – insurance. So it's all good in the run, but the best flood protection is, of course, the preventive, not the aftercareer, the help. If this package has been implemented, one will not come to a 100% protection – that will never exist – but to a very, very large extent protection against new floods on the Danube. This Article 15a agreement, which we decide on, and the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinzl and me – and the House, as I hope, towards the Federal Government, to push the matter forward and also to conclude it with the three states concerned by 2019, go in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7235	Mr Podgorschek has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7258	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! On behalf of my parliamentary club, I should like to express my thanks again: all the comrades of the fire brigades, the Red Cross, the Samaritan League and all the civil private institutions, helpers and other aid organizations, who have shown sacrificing solidarity with our society and thus also documented that solidarity in our society is not empty words. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] But it is also time to thank the Austrian Federal Army and the young soldiers for their efforts. The following is incomprehensible to me: We, the State Department of Upper Austria, were sent a letter that is extremely alien, and I may give you, ladies and gentlemen, this letter – it is dated the 18th. June 2013 – to inform and read: Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! “I am bringing you, as an office mayor, a scandalous issue to your appreciated knowledge and I ask you to take this initiative on your part. As a community affected by the flood in June 2013, a few hours after the first cellars were caught near the water entering the water, we were instructed ‘by the SPÖ Party Summit’ under no circumstances to request the German army for assistance.’ [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] And then we're going to go on: “The German army was not allowed to provide any assistance! That's the incredible instruction. When my congregation secretary informed me on the phone of this call, I thought this was a bad joke. Unfortunately, on demand in Vienna, the correctness: no German army... from all over the top!” It also says: “I don’t want to say that a few presenters with sandbags had stopped the water masses. But the instruction, out of political calcule and revenge, involving the human and material sacrifices, is insanity." [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Neugebauer.]] “You will understand the anonymity of my letter. You will understand that this is my last attempt to bring the matter to the public. It's best known in the fire brigades. Regional media representatives must remain silent – this is actually another scandal. With friendly greetings A rather frustrated, still red’ mayor.” – Quote. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I assume that this mayor will also be known to you. But if these accusations really come true, that's a mega scandal for me. [[In the case of the FPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Ursula Haubner.]] This means that cheap party policies were made at the expense of the affected population; consciously, material and human damage was purchased to revenge for the outcome of the referendum, and at the expense of the population. – It can’t be that way, and this procedure is irresponsible! In this case, the chairman of the SPÖ, Federal Chancellor Faymann, is responsible. This is actually a shame for the Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For me, the SPÖ has lost every right to call itself state-bearing, and I therefore call for a complete clarification of this progress. magazines. The soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army did not deserve to be treated in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7353	Next speaker: Clubwoman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7374	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bartenstein said: He spoke of an unhappiness in view of the fact that a century-high water has now visited us twice in a decade. As I believe, this discomfort can also be brought to a point: In future, due to climate change, we will have to deal with weather extremes also in Austria, which is indisputable. Strong rain, murals – these are the consequences of climate change, many scientists tell us, and that is why we also need to take energy change and climate change politically, very seriously, not only nationally, but also internationally. I believe that the question of how to prevent such a disaster is of course very busy with many. Finally, there will never be 100 percent security, but I think you can go a step further than the Federal Government is now doing. Mrs Bundesminister, although I can expressly commend you here for keeping all your commitments on the spot and on the spot and also for favouring the project, this Article 15a agreement has already been negotiated before the Danube flood, and it is essentially the way forward. We would have liked and expected that further lessons and conclusions will now be drawn from this additional disaster and that, above all, more strongly investment in flood protection will be made in this area. They have not cut any funds; the Minister for the Environment has reduced resources, and unfortunately these cuts have not been reduced either. We regret this and we strongly criticize it. I think that the question of how to deal with the volunteer helpers will also remain unfinished. There will obviously be no improvement in the situation before the National Council election. Many of the volunteers thanked themselves – we also do and did – but the legal situation remains the same as it was. And that too is extremely unsatisfying. The third point that is very important to us is the following: What happens to the future buildings? Will one go the way to actually operate ecological flood protection, i.e. to give the rivers more space again, to give space, to look after space planning, not to cover all areas, but to really open up areas again? There are worrying numbers that show ten football fields every day. This is, of course, dramatic as far as flood protection is concerned and the situation is getting worse. There are, unfortunately, no improvements and no additional measures. The last point concerns the famous red zones; we have discussed them very much. It is still possible that in some federal states building in red zones is authorised. We have construction objects in these acutely threatened zones, where people must be present, that at any time a very dramatic Flood can reach them that there is no protection for them. I also miss something like an absolute ban on construction in the red zones on the uniform coordination of spatial planning throughout the country. So there would have been a lot of measures that go beyond this package. This package is welcome – I have to say that again – and it is very fine what you have done here. But all that we discussed at the last session, where I said that with declining levels, the interest of politics to move forward again has unfortunately come down: The big, forward-looking projects are missing, there is no help for the helpers. There is no prioritisation of investing exclusively – or if possible – in environmental flood protection, and there is also a lack of a committed approach in the field of climate protection and energy transition. It is a pity that the Environment Minister is not here today. In this flood debate, he did not give himself a single detail to the House. The cuts in its area were dramatic, and some in the federal states also strongly criticised this – the country of Vorarlberg has criticized this, which the country of Upper Austria has criticized. I would have wished him a justification now, as he can argue, not to take back these cuts in this area – especially against the background of the pleas in the construction sector. These are very great economic projects, very labour-intensive. Setting a focus on environmental flood protection, including in the field of wildlife cultivation, would actually have been a very, very good project, but as so often in these questions, the Minister for the Environment puts himself on the wrong side. You, Mrs Minister – and I expressly say so – have not done so, you have kept everything on the spot and on the point. We hope that, for Upper Austria, for the Eferdinger Basin, there will also be a second agreement as quickly as possible, that the situation there can no longer be repeated. We Greens, however, will not let go of the flood protection sector. We will continue to pursue our five points – ecology, climate change and energy change – and I wish you, Mrs. Minister, more support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7438	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7460	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The floods in June of this year have led us to see that so-called centennial floods can occur at shorter intervals, and that it is absolutely necessary to realize these protection structures, which have been discussed and, in part, has already begun to be implemented or built, according to what happened in 2002. This is of great importance. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am also glad that some of the 34 projects relating to protection buildings that we have are now preferred and the buildings are being built faster, because it has also been established that where these protection buildings were built, the costs of these buildings are far below the cost of damage, that is no question. I'm glad that's the way it is and you prefer it. Of course, one will never have a 100% protection, but I am already glad that these agreements, especially this Article 15a agreement, have now fruited the Danube between the Federal Government and the countries concerned – Upper Austria, Lower Austria and Vienna. And that of these resources that are being used there, this 255.1 million, the federal government has 50 percent, the countries 30 percent and 20 percent the municipalities and the interested parties, is all right, that is also good. As far as the situation of volunteers is concerned, I have to say – I can give my previous speaker the right thing; I too believe that there is still a lot to do. Although I know that competence is in many areas with the countries, the federal government should be set up with the countries, so that the voluntary helpers – and this help they give us – are priceless and we are proud of it in Austria – are able to pay compensation for all those who carry out these services in these areas and that these many other things, such as protective vaccinations, which are necessary and so on, are also paid. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Scheibner.]] This should be settled between the federal government and the countries. A short sentence on the drama of the flood disaster and the events at night from 3 to 4. June in the Eferdinger Basin. We have tabled a request – which unfortunately has been postponed in the Transport Committee, Mrs Bundesminister, the last time – in which we call for information from an international expert committee that examines the events there, where apparently a badly coordinated opening of the locks in Aschbach and Ottensheim has intensified the situation and the people in Eferdinger Becken and in the upper Mühlviertel have been harmed so to speak. That is why we are calling for clarification, and there has not yet been a number of things.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7505	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7527	Mr President. Minister! High house! The honourable Member, Mr Podgorschek, has said or read something quite incredible here earlier. It's really a scandal, my Ladies and gentlemen, if an instruction comes from the red party office to carry out neglected assistance. That is to say, a criminal offence has been cleared up here, and I expect the judicial system to go into action accordingly, because here people have been left in the rain, the water to the neck. It's really extreme what's happening here! This is criminal prosecution, ladies and gentlemen, and this is a case of judicial intervention. I just read something on the Internet on ORF.at, which also bothers me very much. Let's take a look at Radstadt! There the entire fire brigade has now returned its functions because of the flood, because the firemen are left standing in the rain. That is, the expenses they have will not be replaced, although there have been commitments from the ÖVP/SPÖ Assembly. So here, too, one sees where it happens, how necessary it is to look at the aid organizations and the volunteers and create good conditions in this regard, ladies and gentlemen. And there we would be called for here in the House, because there are appropriate proposals to implement them as well. The politics or government should make nails with heads here and not always speak well with beautiful words. Ladies and gentlemen! This centenary flood once again revealed the boundaries when humanity intervenes through river upgrades and constructions of danger zones and deep interventions into nature – otherwise it cannot be explained. Through river upgrades, the water is accelerated, i.e., the river builds accelerate the drain, thereby making the water faster and faster, it builds up faster, and these floods are then a consequence of it. Flood buildings to protect the population in danger zones – and especially in the Danube area – are good and necessary, and this advantage of these floods is the right way, and that is why we welcome it very much. Of course, it would also be important to make the necessary financial resources available quickly and unbureaucratically. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, we had here a recent hour a few weeks ago on the subject of floodwater, and I have been told there that I have been granted that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment via the municipal credit these flood buildings and avalanches and so on, and so on, not to speed up, but to slow down by cleaning money to enable the Raiffeisen Upper Austria – the Bad Bank of Raiffeisen Upper Austria, the successor bank of municipal credit – to make a business possible, and many of these funds that would be planned will then disappear in the bureaucracy. There, too, ladies and gentlemen, is a need for clarification, because here really every cent should invest in the floods and not be swallowed up by a bureaucracy. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we also need action! I can only hope that the electorate will decide accordingly in autumn and elect this government. I would like to give an example – also in connection with the flood situation – of how slow this is partly due to the cleaning work or the necessary work. In the area of stockerau-environment, drinking water supply is affected by the flood; the water is contaminated, there are fecals in the drinking water. This is still not solved, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that drinking water is a necessary asset, and here the responsible should work quickly and unbureaucratically and, above all, take the money in order to improve the situation. That is what we are already doing, ladies and gentlemen. – You may also remember: A few weeks ago, in the discussion here, I reported that Frank Stronach has made an immediate donation of €500 000 for the flooded, and I have tried to make a request here, which only had four signatures, because the colleague Tadler himself was affected by the flood and was at home. [[Abg. May. Widmann:... the posters... the ads!]] That is why I asked the question of support, and none of the 178 Members of the other political groups voted in favour. It was a question of paying back the promotion of the party, which you really raised wrongfully last year – here the outrage was great – and making this almost €14 million available to the flood-damaged as an emergency aid, ladies and gentlemen. It would have been a truly noble move to give the people their tax money back, not to use it for party propaganda, but to return it to the people to whom they had previously taken it as a tax. And none of the 178 representatives of the other political groups here – except the Stronach team – has agreed to this request. I now have the fifth signature and submit the request again. You can really do nails with heads here, ladies and gentlemen. Have a stand! Go here, take back the increase in party promotion and give the money to the flood-damaged people who need it more urgently! [[Abg. Scheibner: What about the donation of your club promotion that you have announced?]] That is why I would like to make this motion for a resolution formally: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll invite you to: Set a sign for the Austrians and don't always talk about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7610	The motion for a resolution tabled is being debated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7668	Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7689	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's like this: Eleven years after the last so-called high tide of the century, we saw dramatic pictures again. Localities were flooded in Austria, cities were flooded, and we could all see what this means for the people living on the Danube. But I believe – and I would also like to mention this – that at the same time we saw how Austria holds together, how the helpers immediately raised their sleeves and started to eliminate the mud mass, as immediately as rescue, fire brigade, the German army were in place. By the way, Mr Deputies, 12,000 young soldiers were in the service of assistance. All those who were called up by the mayors, by the national leaders, by the district leaders, have come to use. And there has been no one in this country who would have been interested in not helping people as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I believe that in Austria we have really seen that one is in need and that solidarity and cohesion are values that we can be proud of in our society. The Austrian Federal Government, politics, here also has an obligation to help as quickly as possible – whether this is in the area of the disaster fund or if we do not allow the time to pass, unfortunately, in the past after 2002, by immediately starting to put all the measures in place to protect the people of Austria in the future – whenever this flood comes; that is a race with time – also from floods. I'd like to remind you of the pictures you've probably seen. Where in recent years we have succeeded with a real effort, where the workers have done everything possible to complete the projects in good time – and since 2006 we have been able to complete 17 projects – there we have protected the people. We have protected the people in the Wachau with mobile walls – these are technological wonders, small building wonders with pump systems at a depth of 20 meters – from the flood. And where it is possible to give the water the space to return the river to the river, we have responded with these measures to the flood. We don't wall the Danube! We protect historical cities and places where people have lived for centuries. We protect them with new technologies, with mobile walls, so that the Danube is not walled in and the view of the landscape remains preserved, and we build dams, we build flood areas. Allow me to give you an example, too: the Machland Dam. This area has also been kept, even there we have no damage. We have provided floodlands there. It always sounds as easy as we'd run the water over the meadow. – But there was no meadow! There have lived 250 families, there are houses. The families there would have stood the water back to the neck with this flood. We moved 250 families. We have done this in close cooperation with the mayors, the country and the communities, and we have given new space to the river. In the same way, we will continue to carry out flood protection with the 17 projects still pending: Wherever it is possible to restore, where it is possible to provide flood rooms, there we will do so, and where you can work with technological possibilities with mobile flood walls as in Grein – you have certainly seen the pictures – we will do so in this form. I would also like to thank you here for the broad support we can now make for an acceleration programme in the course of an economic package. We originally intended to make this expansion within ten years; we will reduce it to six years. But this is also a major challenge as regards land areas, as regards project submissions, in terms of technical applications – a real big challenge! This only works if, in such emergency situations, we also hold together in politics and if, the federal government, together with the countries of Upper Austria, Lower Austria and Vienna, we make these resources available to implement this acceleration programme. – That is, as I said, our goal. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say something about the accusations of the floods in the Eferdinger Basin: I think there is no doubt that the people who live there have a right to get a real complete reconnaissance about it. In my area, I have also sent to the Supreme Water Authority as the responsible authority all the lock movements recorded by the via donau. I know that in the country of Upper Austria, Anschober has commissioned a German university to look at what has really happened by means of an opinion. I can only tell you one thing: All I could do was send information to the competent Supreme Water Justice Authority, and I will do so in the future, because people have a right to complete information. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Heinzl has said that those who help quickly help twice. – This is particularly the case in the field of flood protection. This leads us to protect people from floods in the future, but this also means that we do not have to take millions into our hands in order to do away with them, as was the case after floods in 2002, but rather to take money in order to boost employment as well. That is why I am very glad that it was successful to say: No, we may not have ten years to complete these 17 projects, but we try It's in six years. We once again link up an economic package to invest in flood protection to protect people from this flood. We do this with those methods that are most environmentally friendly and that also take into account man and nature. – It is also the right instrument to link economic packages in which you take money in order to actually implement positive things. Therefore, allow me also to say that I am very glad that we are in control of money in the area of flood protection, that in the area of residential construction we are taking the money into our hands with a business package, so that in the future young families also have an offer of secluded apartments that we take money into our hands to expand kindergartens to expand nursing homes. These are economic packages that produce something! Yesterday, the OECD report, in which Austria was assessed positively in the ranking. It said we stopped, we didn't break the country. - We've invested. We have the lowest unemployment in Europe. We're the fifth-richest country. However, we do not stop, but we have learned from the success of the 2008 economic packages and we know that we should set incentives for employment in a very sensitive sector for the Austrian economy, namely in the construction and construction sectors, and in the future create values that, as has been said, help families to live, protect the elderly people from the water at nursing homes and above all from the people. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7775	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7796	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Winston Churchill once meant that if you want a disaster, you just have to fulfill the duty. Mr Podgorschek, the anonymous writing you read before, is only a distraction from the truth for me, because anonymous writing can be presented at any time. This reminds me, for example, of advertisements of liberal officials against social democrats who are said to have smoked in public buildings. Just, it wasn't really researched, they showed non-smokers. That's the same thing with this anonymous writing. You read something, you can't say who that is, or don't want to say it. – Put the name on the table, tell me who it is, then you can follow the whole thing! Just to make claims in the room, that can't be it. What is it in the night of the 3rd to the 4th? June 2013 really happened? – In the Upper Austrian communities of Goldwörth, Feldkirchenen, Walding, Ottensheim, this statement was tragically presented by Winston Churchill, whom I mentioned earlier, because there hundreds of houses were deliberately flooded. Tragic: The population of Eferdinger Beckens was not even informed of the threatening danger, of being flooded there. – Because everyone has only done their duty, how we could read and how we have learned from the media. Everyone only adhered to standards. That's what happened in the Eferding Basin. This is disastrous, ladies and gentlemen, but with every day that goes by, the headquake becomes even stronger. ==References====External links== July reports on incredible sluts that have happened in this context. There have been crashed computers, there has been missing measurement data am. That is to say, it has been revealed to all the dilettantism that prevailed there. Also – and this is also stated in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” – the attitude of the Upper Austrian state policy is questionable, and the Ministry of Life has a need for information, because the so-called Wehrbetriebsordnung, which, for example, refers to the union with regard to the flood, is a regulation of this House. That is, everyone has fulfilled his duty, everyone has done something, and hundreds of houses have been deliberately flooded. – There’s a lot in here, ladies and gentlemen! In the interests of the people concerned, I call not only for swift action, but also for comprehensive transparency and for a substitute for the damage suffered by those affected by this deliberate flood. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, expansion and protection measures for the future are also urgently necessary – after all that has happened. As we have heard many times today, the last century high water is not yet 11 years back. There, where we have since built shelter rooms and reservoirs, this time the worst could be prevented. For example, in the Linz district of Alt-Urfahr-Ost or in the Upper Austrian Mauthausen, it has been shown how valuable and important these protective measures were, as these places and districts could be kept free of flooding. In other places, ladies and gentlemen, nature has come to an end. There have been highest levels, there has been immeasurable human suffering, immense material damage. The implementation of the 17 projects of 34 could at least guarantee maximum protection. These 17 projects, which have already been implemented, show us impressively how important it is that these protective buildings be built. Therefore, it is said to press the tube to make speed, because the expansion of the protective devices is really very, very important. Whether Enns-Enghagen or the St. Georgen Bay: These areas should become as safe as those who already benefit from the Machland dam today. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for putting pressure on her, so that many of the projects, which are actually budgeted for the period 2019 to 2023, can be started as early as 2014. This is the right help at the right time, because it creates security for people and even contributes to the economy. It's a win-win situation that helps everyone. Mrs Bundesminister, thank you very much, you are at the ball as always and you know how to react quickly and properly to the Austrian population for which people in this country are responding!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7851	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7873	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I am pleased that, before I begin my speech, I can very warmly welcome and welcome a delegation of the women's movement from Leibnitz and a delegation of the "Women in the Voitsberg economy". Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hagen has put himself to the speaker's desk here and is afraid of how bad all of this has been that nothing has worked. He has used this flood, this natural disaster and the people who are affected today and still suffer for many years, abused for his election tactics. I have to tell you, Mr Hagen, that I find it disgraceful of you to be here and to say that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the Stronach team.]] We are talking so much about values, values and truths, and I can tell you what is true about the situation in the Stockerauer area, Mr Hagen! The fact is, the city of Stockerau is on the 21st century. In June, the drinking water was released. The fact is, weeks before, samples have been taken almost daily, that the certification must of course be available. The ABC defence school has also cooperated, helping to ensure that there is drinking water again for citizens. It's not like you're telling me here to spread panic. [[Abg. Hagen leaves his seat towards the Bureau.]] – You can go quietly, you just can’t keep the truth out, that’s your problem! The authorities have worked very well together, the district headquarters, the state of Lower Austria with its experts, of course our firemen and women, of course also the soldiers, especially the ABC defence school. It's been great work. One thing we also need to know, ladies and gentlemen: In 2002, after this terrible flood, the floods in Lower Austria, also in my hometown of Bisamberg, we thought that it was now for the next decades. - No, it wasn't! We responded at the time, both the Federal and Upper Austria, Lower Austria, and we, the congregations. We have defined 34 flood projects along the Danube – today already addressed – and partly also built them; also in my market community two flood protection dams, an investment of € 1 million for a small community. We have continued to respond. In 2006 an Article 15a agreement was again reached, and funds were in turn made available: € 420 million so that the protective buildings can be realized in the years 2007–2016. We only adopted a package of €255 million in February of this year, but the flood was faster than we were in the implementation and distribution of these funds. It is therefore important and right that we have put forward this motion for a resolution and also decided on it. I would like to thank our committee president, Mr Bartenstein, for having so vehemently taken account of the fact that it works in this form, because we need this money in the countries, in the communities, to react quickly and to be able to implement the appropriate measures quickly. Now to the people concerned themselves, ladies and gentlemen. If you were like me in the middle of this event, you know what such a thing means for the families when the personal items swim around somewhere, if the fields in the next few years, yes decades, you could almost say, you could not be buildable anymore, because the water in it is like in the bathtub. Drying the surfaces to be able to grow again will take some time. That is, help comes from us, it is there, but the suffering of men, unfortunately, cannot relieve God to the extent we would like it to be. But here too, we have a task to be done, even though at the time of floods, as has been said, all those involved are not only trying to do so, but also professionally. In this case, the Court of First Our wife district captain in the district of Korneuburg, Dr. Müller-Toifl, managed for a whole week, there were two-hour talks with fire brigades, German army, mayors down to the smallest municipalities, with the Bauhof managers, because of course, even in the non-immediate environment, a backstower of the Danube took place in the side arms of the Danube. Quite clearly, it was a huge amount of water to record an enormous speed of water, and the Danube waters have naturally been pushed back into the side arms. There 24-hour guards have been pushed by the fire brigade, by our parish staff. They did great things. For us mayors remains a question: How will we cope with the next flood? What else is to be done? - We still have a lot to do. That is, Mrs Federal Minister, we must also pay more attention to the side arms of the Danube. The protection on the Danube directly, in the Kremser space for example, through the mobile walls has been excellently successful. I didn't think it really works so well. It worked, the experts were right. But now it is also important to look at the side arms of the Danube, such as in my home village, where a small Bacherl with 30 centimetres of water level normally rose to 7,40 meters within one day. That's the point: What do we have to do? How does it look for our communities? How can we evacuate 1,500 people? Where? What measures must we take in the field of civil protection for ourselves in the communities? I believe, as we are already planning, that we also need to carry out the follow-up very sensitive and precise, in order to know what measures we can take with regard to another flood, another natural disaster. In this sense, I would like to thank all those who have helped to meet this great challenge in this very difficult time.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7963	Mr Hagen would like to make an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e7987	Mr President. High house! Mrs Schittenhelm said earlier that I would have run a campaign here on the back of the flood victims and slandered what didn't work. [[Abg. Steibl: I do!]] I'm actually correcting: I simply asked the Members here in the House to agree to my request to withdraw the increase in the promotion of the party and to donate this money to the flood victims in order to provide a sign of the flood victims. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8022	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8043	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The item on the agenda under discussion will include, and in itself, an Article 15a agreement for the short-term and joint financing of flood projects. From this principle only this is to be agreed. But, as my previous speakers have said, there is a very broad position, and In all its aspects, this flood is also to be illuminated in order to be prepared for the future. There have already been some reasons for the flood, for example, I call climate change. – I think, in addition to the absolutely non-disputable climate change, it is quite discussive whether it is really man-made. There are very many scientific views which say that he is not man-made, and therefore I think it is terrible that it is not possible to do a business like the emission certificates or to switch political change on the back of the victims. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] But let us take a more detailed breakdown of the various places, and I thank the Upper Austrian club Steinkellner, who exactly listed and listed who was all involved! – The Federal Government itself and the Federal Company Association have acted a bit strangely, as have the state government with its crisis management, quite questionable, especially where it is also oversight of the municipalities, and also individual mayors. That is why Mr Keck should find out, for example, whether Walding has been stifled, and perhaps he should ask the mayor there for his opinion. – That only in connection with this letter, which Mr Podgorschek has quoted. How are the irregularities going, the abuses? – In 1970, the construction of the power plant was precisely determined that the Eferdinger Basin, for example, is a flooding area. The combination regularly reports to the crisis staff that correspondingly rising levels are to be expected, but the compound sends this to the wrong e-mail address. Because a computer has crashed, the mail has gone to a wrong address, the receiver does not exist at all. But there is no human being in the union to see if an error message comes back, whether there is even the recipient. – In a crisis situation completely unbearable! On the other hand: The crisis staff shall receive regular level reports up to a certain date, and the reports shall be withdrawn. A proper crisis plan, a proper staff, which also works accordingly, is at least not likely to exist in Upper Austria, because it could come up with the idea of calling on the link and asking what is with the emails. You don't do that. You sit back, you're an official or whatever, waiting for the sun to rise. That is also absolutely unbearable! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Is there actually a plan that provides exactly what to do? Are there updated telephone numbers? Are there updated e-mail addresses? Next is the evacuation. For example, the evacuation was discussed too early and was not carried out too late. So fail from the front to the back, across all the levels of Hierarchy! If we decide on this package today, then we should really think about the victims, because they now get a cold handshake afterwards. It is obviously not enough for a warm one, because the money has now been lowered in the EU, in Greek scrap loans, together with the families. In the families in the communities there is solidarity, but there is no solidarity between the lenders, the financiers, the federal government and the families. The government is not for the people, but for the banks there, we know that it is [[Hö-Rufe at ÖVP]] bought from the markets, but chosen by people – and people will surely think about it on the election day.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8128	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8178	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values listeners and spectators on the ranks! The students of the Academic School of Linz with their teachers are warmly welcomed! An act of political education in the last week of school, thank you! – Are my students, by chance! [[General condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Mr Bartenstein, I thank you for being able to speak now because, fortunately, you have not consumed your entire speaking time. Let's go on the subject, Mrs. Minister! Two centuries high in eleven years. As not only the alarm sirens shriek, it is not only necessary to take money into our hands – as we have heard, 420 million by 2017 and then another 255 million by 2023; but not only the money makes it up – but also to put it first and first of all make sense and take preventive measures. In this we are God, thank all of you, Mr Auer or you from the SPÖ. The Minister has worked it out very well: We need space, we need room for water, we need flood zones. That's why the Machland project has been so successful. It has been used money with heart and mind. The people have partially voluntarily left the room – there were 280 families – because it is a red zone. We also have other examples, for example in Lower Austria. Mrs. Mayor, you talked about the streams! – Yes, also a problem, but look at the use of funds along March! There, too, a flood dam was built, only strangely – I say very politely – between the river and Au. Where's the water going? A dam between river and Au, the water then flows further down, where there is no dam anymore. We have the problem here that the river has not received space, but that this dam building primarily serves the drying of agricultural land. It is also legitimate, I say, but flood protection is not, not according to the latest findings, not according to the state of the art and not according to economic criteria. So: Let's do it well! Mrs Minister, even with our financial decision today, is not clear which funds are available for the Eferding region, which has been addressed more often today, including the Feldkirchenen area, Goldwörth. People there have not been warned that since the construction of power plants through the power plant chain on the Danube it is clear that the flood zone is. This did not affect the building permits, the people were able to settle in a space that was originally planned from the point of view of the association as a flood zone. This is also an information deficit, Mr Deimek, not only – and I give you absolutely right – that with the wrong e-mail address, not just that with the not made after-phone, not just with the missing warnings! It is in principle in the settlement policy, in the spatial planning policy a massive error Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That is why it is very, very important for us that in the spatial order – and here I really talk to federalist Members in a serious dialogue – one defines protection zones in the spatial order, when one makes power plant buildings, because only the retention rooms, the flood rooms, can be guaranteed. Especially when power stations quickly raise their bulkheads, so to speak, in accordance with this order of military operation, there is the problem with the mud, and with the mud, agriculture fights just as much as the affected population, which not only has the water in the basement, but also the mud, which, as we know, is even more angry. This mud is more or less slumber. And here we are in the face of a fundamental problem, which also concerns you, Mrs Minister: What happens to the equipment, to the mud coming through the rivers from the mountains into the reservoirs? This is also an energy-efficient problem, the storage space becomes smaller, the effectiveness of hydropower is reduced. The mud prevents the addition of water when flooded, and the mud lies when opens, on the fields, clogs the houses. Mrs. Minister, why – this is my question and an approach to problem-solving – does the via donau – you are responsible for the construction of waterways – as a subsidiary body not get the obligation or the task of slamming the reservoirs, exhaling them in time and then transporting them to the Black Sea by ships if it does not go through the power stations on the natural road? Somewhere the mud has to be – apologise, but that's the way it is. Mrs Minister, let me give you a second example. Also in Hallstatt, very, very fast floods have flown through a mountain stream in the middle of the village, no one could imagine that. We also need to ensure that the streams are not only channelled, but also that there are elusive zones, but above all also that the streams are cleaned. There have not only been several walls standing there, but also tree trunks of previous winds, and this has led to these disasters in Hallstatt. Mrs Minister and Mrs Schittenhelm, Mrs Mayor, it is, as you have said, also about helping people personally. We thank the firemen, but we have not only the financial obligation but also the legal obligation to establish a new protection mechanism. We need a protection mechanism not only in the form of dams, but also in the form of insurance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shit helmet.]] I am therefore at a critical point, and therefore I am very, very careful, I make the following request and seek the Federal Government for the following: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is about this that I come to the end of my remarks to allow myself to be assured. As in Switzerland, comprehensive insurance protection will be possible, even as the European Commission is requesting, because I am not responsible for the fact that people who are not in the red zone, who still have water and mud in their homes, will in part lose more than 50 percent of their assets. Please help us and agree to this motion for a resolution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8284	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8338	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8360	Mr President. It's always the same after a flood: In retrospect, everyone has failed! We all know that. However, it is important to help those affected. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Accept!]] I believe that we agree here in this House. It is not only the affected, the domestic farmers and the companies who have suffered damage that need to be helped, but also the helpers will have to be helped to replace certain material costs, operating costs, entire packages, insurance, vaccinations. We have already explained what would be necessary in this context on the part of the BZÖ. Whoever helps quickly helps twice – that was also the succus of my visits to the flood victims; the number of visits we kept in Upper Austria very consciously modest. My mayor colleague Sigi Berlinger from the BZÖ from St. Roman and I went along the Danube along the Inn and talked to the people about what's important. Two things were mentioned, namely first: rapid unbureaucratic assistance without a seat economy, and second, that the helpers should be taken under the arms accordingly. In addition, thirdly, it was said that everything needs to be done, starting from technical flood protection to spatial planning, in order to avoid such disasters in the future. We'll never be able to avoid them. These are the things I took from there. Of course, we have also given people a little courage and brought a good jause and something to drink, because it is important to express recognition, support and solidarity. But what the Stronach team is doing is not all right: making 500 000 € available to a few selected ones – that is to say, he is unaware – but in return runs an advertising campaign that will probably cost twice or triples. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This does not require Austria to make these politic shows from Canada, which aim to make cheap populism and to buy people. That is what we can do in Austria! It was also, unfortunately, I must also say to God, the vice chancellor in brand-new rubber boots – the price pickerl was still on it in the back – in the floody area, with which 20, 30 people who followed him. You should consider whether this is still appropriate. Much has already been said about Upper Austria, Eferdinger Becken, Urfahr. I also asked the Transport Committee to investigate this. The request was postponed by ÖVP and SPÖ. I do not fully understand this, because this problem of locks in Aschach and Ottensheim needs to be clarified. People have a right to know why they have not been informed. The people in Eferdinger Becken and in Urfahr also have a right to get the same flood protection as in Machland, for example. Why not? And if you can't do anything because too much water is there, they have a right to timely information and also to appropriate deposition measures if that can happen. What you can't do, however, is that you first keep quiet on the part of the union and also of the country and see what happens. But thank God there are some courageous mayors in the region and people who say something has not worked, and demand enlightenment. And I have promised these mayors and people support and I also demand complete education: Where in the system did the errors happen? It will be important and correct, but the most important will be the lessons from it. That's the decisive thing. Can we change the order? Can the union already abandon the power plants before? Of course, the compound then abandons a bit of electricity – worth about € 2 million a day – but the damage done there is hundreds of millions. 250 million for those affected. These are the things that should be done very pragmatically in order to avoid such things in the future. That is why I did not understand that you do not agree to this request and wait again until something happens at some point. I didn't understand one thing either: Why has the structured militia set up for such cases not been used in the use of floods?- Oh, my God! We pay hundreds of people 5 000 euros a year to make use of this kind of disaster. They didn't call. That's not what the taxpayer understands. I therefore believe that there is a potential for improvement, a need for improvement, but, as has been said, the most important thing will be to help those concerned quickly and to take measures in the future to avoid such effects. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8402	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8424	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all think we're living in a very fast time. If I buy a cell phone today, it's in half a year or even earlier. And this fast-livedness, unfortunately, has also spread to the nature of God. The term “hundred - year flood ” has long been obsolete, unfortunately, God’s whole comes back more and more quickly. That is why we all in this House have an opinion – and this has been shown again in the discussion in the Committee and today – that it is a very good decision that we prefer the projects planned for the period 2014 to 2019. Unfortunately, as the reality shows, after a flood, it is also politically re-watered. Let me just address one point that has been said here today. Mr Hagen, you said you believed drinking water was important, and you said, you know that Mr Podgorschek's accusations were due to a Anonymous writing is correct. I can only tell you, I know drinking water is important, and I don't think every anonymous accusation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make a few general points on this very important issue. I myself have been hit by a great flood in my youth age – I live in the Inntal. My parents operated a restaurant with a pension. In the back of the kitchen the inn is poured in and out at the front of the dining room. Throughout the place the inn has flown half a meter or a meter high like a rising river. Therefore, believe me that I am taking seriously the concerns of the people in Austria who are affected or in other countries too. We need to build the necessary protective buildings and take all possible other measures, because people can only be saved from suffering so much. Whole existences are affected. In the communities where these protection structures have been made, for example along the Danube, it has been shown that this protection is, of course, nationally calculated, because the expenditure on protection buildings and other measures is, of course, much lower than the damage that would have been done if the protective buildings had not been made. As a Tyrolean Member, allow me to say that Austria does not end with Upper Austria or Salzburg – this is partly due to politics. I call on you to continue to take the appropriate measures with us in Tyrol, because we too are very affected. Especially from the last flood, my constituency Kufstein-Kitzbühel was very affected. The causes are multilayered. There are people who talk more or less just about accumulating, others blame only climate change. Still others see the debt only in agriculture, which I do not think is true. That is where I am right, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, who have rightly opposed the committee's opposition, and the accusation came from Mr Hagen. In my opinion – that is what the experts say – it is a conglomerate of causes, with sometimes paving up can even be a help. At the end of the 1960s the motorway was built. It is even a protection for many places, because it has built a protective dam. So the subject is more complex than it is in life. Not only can you see one cause, but the whole thing is more complicated. Some paints like black and white. The Minister has already said that many measures have been taken: Dams built, discharges carried out and so on. In this context, I would like to point out that, in the years 2002 to 2006, we all know who was politically responsible at the time, the average annual expenditure on flood protection in the Danube-March area amounted to €21 million, which has been increased by two and a half times since 2006. That doesn't need any more words! Mr Hagen, we have set signs. You said today that we should not talk, but set signs. Mr Berlakovich, I would like to say – as far as the inflows to the Danube are concerned – that he should not be reworked, just as was often done in the past, but that there should be where it belongs, namely flood protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just let me have another thought. If we were to create tax justice in Austria, we could build rapid flood protection buildings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Just one example: The Raiffeisenlandesbank Niederösterreich has made a profit of €739 million in three years and paid no taxes but a credit of €21.6 million. Or group taxation: RZB has increased its assets from 36 billion to 157 billion in eight years, but paid only 2.3 percent of taxes during the same period. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] The extension of the Raiffeisen Group to the East – it is not said to be “near East”, although it is also a close east – was therefore financed by the Austrian taxpayer. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Colleagues from the ÖVP side, let's finally convince you that we need tax justice. Then there is also more flood protection in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8532	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8553	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, Mr Auer, thank you very much for the praise you have expressed to me for my work in the Committee, but if you are talking about tax justice here, I would like to say that it is also fair to praise those companies that pay a lot of taxes and many workers in our country and do not always fall over them, no matter from which sector they come from, whether it is from the banking industry, the construction industry, the agriculture et cetera. You can't do that. Justice also requires respect for one another. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We all have the images of the damage in our eyes, but also the pictures of those flood protection measures that have held. Especially striking were the pictures of the walls along the Danube in the Wachau. These walls allowed valuable cultural heritage to be preserved. I am therefore particularly pleased that today we will decide on an application initiated here at the initiative of the Environmental Council in Lower Austria, Dr. Stephan Pernkopf, after which we prefer flood protection funds so that we can achieve protection faster because we have seen in Lower Austria how much this protection has helped. We could not protect everything, but we have seen where the protection is available, important economic resources could be protected and a lot of human suffering prevented, and that is extremely important. But we have also seen the criticism points, the cracking points. The crisis bars have worked well. I would also like to mention here that all those people who went on 20th. Januarys this year have voted with a yes to the presence service, feel confirmed, because there were mainly presenters who were in the flood, and no other troops, especially no officers who were in the shock, but the present servants. That would have looked at how it would have worked, we wouldn't have this system. However, we also have the weakness of the order and the great problem that we have not included the crisis levels to 100 percent. We need to discuss this even more precisely: how we can improve coordination, because it is already the power plant operators who also have responsibility, whether it be one of the biggest or others, as we improve the information. Because I come from an area north of Vienna, below the Greifenstein power plant, where we had the big problem that the locks in Greifenstein were wide open, but Vienna did not open the Wehr to the New Danube accordingly. There is also the accusation in the room that there was a connection with the Donauinselfest, which is close to the time. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] However, it cannot be said that a region is being cut down, with levels higher than 2002 and other regions thus secured. We need to keep the order going, so that we really have order. It is not the water – we have vast areas in which the water can flow – but it is above all the mud. Mrs Moser has already pointed out: The equipment is available, it is collected in the reservoirs, and the power plant operators in particular use floods to transport it relatively cost-effectively. [[Abg. Krainer: You only trust this from the speaker's desk because you are immune!]] Of course, I trust to say this from the speaker's mouth, but I do trust to say that elsewhere, because you do not need to be afraid, because it is about the protection and security of our people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is where the 'polluter pays' principle must apply. The contaminants are responsible for the damage, and we also have to restore nature. The Danube Auen sends, paralysing completely. There's no permeability. We have to start the castings there again, that we bring the water back away. Large areas are still under water, which not only results in major damage to agriculture, but also extreme gel plagues for all the communities along the rivers and Danube meadows. I would just like to remind you that most of these are Natura 2000 areas and that the Federation has the obligation to maintain Natura 2000 sites ecologically as well. That is, we have to get the mud out of the aus that acts like asphalt there. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We need to keep nature conservation sustainable and determined. We need to make spatial planning more active. It cannot be that we lie today at about 16 hectares of surface sealing per day and then wonder when such large amounts of water are there because they can no longer be absorbed from the ground. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] We cannot take the simple solution that we say then we flooded a few fields, because there would be countless areas at risk, especially places. They are not only fields, but also houses and infrastructure in these areas. That is why we need to restore the floodwaters so that these areas of retention are restored, and for these financial expenses we have to ask the cause question as well. Dear ladies and gentlemen! That is why I believe that the preparation of this flood has not yet been completed. This needs to be further driven within the framework of the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8614	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8637	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As mayor of a community that is always affected by the Danube high waters, I am very glad that today we are the 2. Agreement between the Federal Government and the Federal States of Upper Austria, Lower Austria and Vienna, pursuant to Article 15a. I think it is very useful that, due to floods, investments should be increased accordingly in June 2013 and flood protection should be implemented by 2019. After all, this is a volume of around €255 million. Not only in the Ministry of Transport, which is responsible for Danube, March and Thaya, but also in the Ministry of Life, much is done for flood protection measures. I think that the Ministry of Life should also seek an article-15a agreement with the federal states. That would be a practical procedure. Mrs Bures, the Federal Minister of Finance, as the Upper Austrian, I am glad that today's decision creates the appropriate financial conditions for protection measures, for example in the municipalities of Langenstein, St. Georgen an der Gusen and Luftenberg, as for the Ennser village of Enghagen. You have addressed flood protection in Grein in your speech. I can add that there are still about 20 objects in the municipality of Grein, as well as the village of Hirschenau in the municipality of St. Nikola, and that, starting from June 2013, it is important to consider, plan and implement protective measures for the municipalities in the affected district of Urfahr and also in the district of Eferding. That's why I can only really ask for and ask. The Eferdinger Becken was very present in the last few days, it was in many headlines. However, public debt allocations really do not help anyone, but it is first of all important that the person concerned is well helped in dealing with the damage, and second, an accurate analysis is necessary of why the flood has happened exactly that way. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: How true!]] The country Oberösterreich has already commissioned a study, namely at the University of Kassel in Germany. Head of State Dr. Josef Pühringer has all the participants for 9. In July, invited to a round table to discuss things in concrete terms. Thirdly, of course, concrete protection measures are necessary. According to the findings now available, we can say that the order of military service has been complied with. However, evaluations may and should be considered. Personally, I believe that, in the case of floods, improvements could be achieved for the arrainers if electricity generation and shipping were to be discontinued one or two days earlier in order to speed up the flood. This, however, requires coordination, so to speak, from the origin to the mouth, or one could say from Bavaria to Romania, so that this is really carried out on a large scale. The topic of sediment and sludge deposits: This is really a big topic in many local communities. I believe that in the joint work of power plant operators, federal authorities, countries, affected communities and also stakeholders, it should be possible to achieve improvements in the future. Of course, we agree with the Article 15a agreement to be reached today. Finally, I would like to say a sentence on Mr Christoph Hagen's request: My colleague, Mr Hagen, whether consent or not, I think it is a failure to take the word “character” into the mouth, though only a little bit of what has been said in the media in recent months about the founding of the Club Team Stronach, and I ask you to refrain from doing so in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8680	Mrs Lueger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8704	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear colleague jewelry beaters! In your speech you said that in Vienna the Weirs had not been opened up far enough due to the Donauinselfest. I'm actually correcting: First of all, we could record a flow of 14,000 cubic meters, but there was only a flow of 10 800 cubic meters of water. Secondly, you wanted to change the order. You yourself will know that Mr Berlakovich is responsible for the order of the army. I hope you will have more access to this. Thirdly, I would remind you that the ÖVP voted against the Danube Island in Vienna at that time.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8742	Mr Donabauer spoke in favour of a further actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8776	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Mag. In his remarkable speech, Josef Auerhat claims that Raiffeisen does not pay taxes. He referred to Raiffeisen Niederösterreich. Mr Mag. Auer, I'm actually allowed to correct you: Last year, Raiffeisenlandesbank Niederösterreich paid €75.4 million Company tax, the holding company €19.8 million Bank tax, the daughters of Raiffeisen-Holding another €62.7 million Company tax. Raiffeisen Austria pays a total of € 760 million tax. – I would ask you to take note of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8814	Mr Josef Auer came to speak. [[Call BZÖ and Greens:A real correction of an actual correction is not possible!]] [[Abg. Josef Auer: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Personal distress!]] [[Further calls to BZÖ and Greens.]] You know the provisions for a personal response and carry out your personal concern in the first sentence. [[Abg. Brosz: I can't do that!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: (standing in front of the speaker's desk) But you can't say it can't if it's already done!]] In the first sentence, the honourable Member says how he is personally affected. And then we find out how to proceed further.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8925	I would like to make the following point on this actual correction, Mr President, with your estimated permission... [[Abg. Brosz: It's wrong!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8952	Of course, that's not a personal concern. [[Cheerfulness with Greens and BZÖ.]] However, you are welcome to speak again, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8973	I said in my speech that the Raiffeisenlandesbank Lower Austria...
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e8998	Leave The speaker's desk, please! If you would like to speak again, please. Nobody's reported word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We come to the votes. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Proposal from the Committee on Transport, the conclusion of the second Agreement in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act between the Federal Government and the countries of Lower Austria, Upper Austria and Vienna on flood protection projects in the area of the Austrian Danube in 2361 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, colleague and colleagues, on the withdrawal of the increase in party funding from €2.41 to €4.60 per constituency in favour of flood victims. Whoever supports this request, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The request is rejected. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Whoever supports this request, I ask for an acceptable sign. – That is rejected. We come to the vote on item 2 on the resolution relating to the Committee's report 2472 of the Supplements on 2. Agreement in accordance with Article 15a BVG on flood protection projects in the area of the Austrian Danube, accelerated implementation of the planned projects. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. (E 311.) [[12:08:47]] 3rd. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (2443, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Shipping Act and the Maritime Law (Shipping Law 2013) (2473 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9086	We're coming to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Stauber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9116	Mr President. Appreciate Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! I am particularly welcome to welcome a group of pensioners from the district of Neunkirchen, from Edlitz, Grimmenstein and Thomasberg. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] I hope you can take a positive impression of the work here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is well known to have a very intense relationship with water. Under the previous item on the agenda, we discussed in detail the negative effects of water. But of course there are also many positive sides that can be seen in the water. The Austrians like to use the water – from the sea to the lakes to the rivers – for sporty, tourist and also economic purposes. From Lake Neusiedler to Lake Constance: On all lakes it's teeming with boats. Sailing in Austria has a very great tradition, and the Danube steam shipping company is in this context an institution that has a special significance for Austria. The present November 2013 shipping law, with which the Shipping Act and the Maritime Act are amended, mainly concerns simplifications and improvements in the administrative field, as well as a number of minor changes and EU adaptations. An important innovation concerns the very popular recreational sport rafting, especially among young people. In contrast to other EU countries, Austria has so far needed its own concession for the management of a rafting company. As a result, EU foreigners in Austria were allowed to work without a concession and thus there was almost a domestic discrimination. In order to establish justice and equal opportunities between all providers in this area, this concession obligation will in future not apply. Instead, a simple application will be sufficient – a great improvement compared to the previous scheme. This makes rafting from the concession to the registration industry. There will be further administrative simplification with regard to shipping signs. If the costs for the shipping signs on bridges have been charged in detail between the owners or operators of the bridge and the BMVIT, a flat rate is now calculated in the future. In addition, the principle of 'polluters' is finally introduced when it comes to removing obstacles to shipping, for example as a result of Havaria. So far, it has been very difficult to enforce the removal of shipping barriers legally if the causer refused and did not voluntarily eliminate them. Now, shipping obstacles have to be removed by the contaminant. and in the event of infringements, the legal enforcement possibilities extend to judicial enforcement measures. All in all, then, a very positive new legal regulation. – Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, and all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9174	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9195	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! After Mr Stauber's remarks, I can go on seamlessly and explain these shipping novels further. Mr Stauber has already explained the question of rafting in great detail. What is very important to me for safety reasons is the addition that even now a raft patent is no longer necessary, but the ship leaders and the ship leaders still have to master driving practice, water knowledge, first aid, tour planning and implementation and group management. This is an important measure for the safety of the persons entrusted to them. This novel also includes the liberalisation of the commercial boat guide training. This means that the use of commercial boat guide training is now no longer a prerequisite for the approval of the ship's pilot test. In the sense of freedom of employment, the provisions for the ship's guide schools constitute an overregulation, which is now repealed. In other words, the training is transferred from an authorisation to a registration procedure. Another point is the introduction of Captain A. With the captain's patents issued so far by the Austrian authorities, the operation of maritime roads was not possible. – This concerns parts of the Danube in Romania up to the Black Sea. With this implementation, the with 1. January 2015 will enter into force, ensuring that the patents issued in Austria are valid throughout the Danube. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, it can be said that the legislative innovations have little financial impact, that there are a number of deregulations and, for me, that access to certain rights is liberalised. That is why we see this government template very positively and we also give it our approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9235	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9257	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Some points have already been mentioned, with the theme of rafting probably the most spectacular in this context. In the course of this legislative process, the Committee also expressed its concern about whether there is still the necessary security. However, I believe that someone who exercises this sport that goes into the subject, regardless of what the industry is now – whether it is a concession or a registration business – will definitely look at what it looks like in the individual companies with certainty. I would like to highlight the somewhat wider periodic inspection of maritime installations following my two previous speakers. Of course, the fact that outsourcing is also a remarkable point in the enforcement of the obligation to remove maritime barriers has been kept on the verge of action. The continuous validity of the maritime patent throughout the Danube, as pointed out by Colleague Singer, will give the Danube shipping a real boost, especially in the small-scale sector. We know this from Germany and the Netherlands, where on the shipping roads there are professions similar to those of the freight forwarders and freighters on the road. This is also a thought that is remarkable under the environmental aspect. Finally, I would like to say that I am particularly pleased that a law, which will be passed unanimously, has the BMVIT, which is led by the SPÖ, in particular, ahead of outsourcings and liberalisations, even if it is only a implementation of an EU directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9289	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9310	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is not a flag state. We are not in the great international shipping with our own ships under our own flag, but there are many Austrians who are very likely to be hired on foreign ships as sailors or even as captains or captains. That is why we will very well agree with this law. At the same time, it will make a repair of the 2012 decision by reintroducing the so-called maritime service book, which is necessary to ensure that the Austrians employed in large or small enterprises operating in international maritime transport are re-acquired. – Well, our consent is clear. Then a small corrective position or concreteization: Mrs Minister, I know very well that you are not responsible for the cultivation of wildlife. My Hallstatt example was not a negative example of your work. I know that the agricultural sector under Minister Berlakovich is responsible, just as he was responsible for the removals. He has deleted while you have provided enough money for flood protection to the original extent. Thank you once again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9344	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9365	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A number of provisions of maritime law will be adapted to EU law through the 2013 Navigation Novel. There is an administrative simplification, a clarification of obligations to remove shipping barriers, which my previous speakers have mentioned in part. However, I would like to say that there is now an equal treatment of commercial and non-commercial boat guide training, thus eliminating the previous overregulation in this area. That's a big advantage. Even if someone owns the captain's or ship's patent for inland navigation A, it is ensured that this certificate of competence applies for the management of the entire Danube – and not only in Austria. In addition, it is clarified that Austrian crew members of seagoing ships, workers with sufficient Austrian relations will continue to receive employment assistance from Austria and the issue of maritime service books will continue to be preserved. That is why we will be happy to give this our assent.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9401	Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9423	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you now for your broad support. But overall, following the discussion on the flood along the Danube, we must say that there is, of course, a close connection with shipping. The responsibility of my department is limited to the Danube, which is because we naturally want to use the Danube as a transport route. Shipping on the Danube is a very important means of transport for us. It is true that shipping is much more environmentally friendly, more energy-efficient than we would transport all these tons that we are already carrying on the Danube. We've been looking at this for the last year: We transported as many goods as 400 000 heavy trucks on the Danube in one year. A column of 400 000 trucks goes from Vienna to Beijing. This shows the dimension of the waterway and the need for use. They know that we have always observed that we want to make a sustainable transport policy in Austria, i.e. a prioritisation and preference of environmentally friendly transport routes. This includes shipping, but of course also the rail. That is why we are investing in these areas. We have also developed a national Danube shipping plan, an action plan for Austria, because we want to benefit better from the capacity already available. Of course, the whole thing always takes into account that the Danube area is a UNESCO cultural heritage. I am also saying this because we are going to put a number of measures in place where we are concerned that we need to re-evaluate the Danube in order to be able to carry out shipping as well, where we see that it is not a contradiction to operate shipping and at the same time to pay special attention to nature. In the area from Vienna to Bratislava, we will carry out a fluent overall project. We must stop the introduction of the Danube. We have to stop the drying of the outdoor landscape. In other words, we will do a very large project of regeneration in this area. Part of today's legislation also refers to leisure behavior on the water. One area is rafting, which is re-regulated with this novel. I join everyone: The objective of this innovation is to adapt European legislation, but above all to simplify administration. It is about us that we want to make shipping even more smooth and attractive, that we want less administrative effort, but the whole thing – and that is the challenge you are facing – of course with a high quality. And as I said, I thank you for the broad approval of this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9471	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9492	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As in the Committee, there were only positive statements in this debate on this item on the agenda. With this amendment of the Federal Act, changes are made in various sub-areas of shipping law and adjustments are made to the European legal basis. The provisions currently in force in the field of maritime law require, in particular with regard to the security of national application of EU law and legal corrections. It has also been mentioned that there will be simplifications and improvements in the field of administration in this context. A major innovation by this novel concerns rafting. This too has already been mentioned. It is essential that the rafting sport is no longer a maritime sport, and the concession obligation is not included here. There is also an adaptation of maritime trade rights to Union law by the equal treatment of commercial and non-commercial ship management training, thereby eliminating overregulation in this area. There are also administrative simplifications by specifying the obligation to remove maritime obstacles. Here, the outsourcing of action and, at all events, the enforcement of civil law of the burden of costs by the causer to an existing company in federal property is planned. In the future, this resolution will be carried out via donau. What does this change mean? Maritime obstacles, for example in the case of Havaria, must be eliminated by the contaminant. The very difficult enforcement right so far, if the causers do not remove their obstacles, is now being re-regulated legally and can lead to forced measures. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can also make an amendment to the amendment tabled by Mr Anton Heinzl, Dr Martin Bartenstein, colleagues on the Government template concerning a Federal Act amending the Shipping Act and the Maritime Law (Shipping Law 2013) (2443 of the Supplements) as amended by the Committee's report (2473 of the Supplements). This amendment was tabled and distributed. It is about the fact that this novelle also concerns changes to the Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act. I would ask the President to include this request in the negotiations and ask for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9551	The application is set out in its basic guidelines and has been distributed and is therefore under consideration. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9627	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9650	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, allow me to greet the pensioners from Edlitz, Grimmenstein and Thomasberg as the responsible constituency representative – Mr Hechtl, you could have told me that I should – because Mr. Duster, who did this, probably does not know the communities at all. Welcome as an overseer! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). It is a real problem to bring out the tax-justice clause at once on the issue of flood protection and to say that Raiffeisen starts by accusing others of non-tax payments. What this has to do with floods is the question. [[Abg. Brosz: And what does this have to do with shipping now?]] He is probably already in the election campaign, but he could have taken examples in his own series, from Androsch to BAWAG, where it was about taxes that were not paid, where small members of the Trade Union Confederation had to stand up for this disaster. This is only to Mr Auer. That was a bit of a pointless. [[Abg. Jacob Auer: The Joseph Auer!]] The Josef Auer, of course. Not Raiffeisen-Jakob Auer, but Josef Auer from Tyrol, to clarify this. But I think everyone has taken note of that. On the subject of shipping law, everything has actually been said to be said. I don't want to repeat that. At the end of a legislative period, perhaps I would just like to point out that the listeners have today also noticed: The same is said on a subject very often. And since the day-to-day broadcast on television, one is often referred to as a Member or a Member of Parliament, why this is so that repetitions of speakers of the same party are repeated, that the following speaker often says the same thing as the previous speaker. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You are the model example of this!]] Mrs Colleague, you said you're happy if you don't see me in Parliament anymore. You'll see me next time. So don't be so unchallenged! I would suggest that we should perhaps sit down in the presidential once and agree on it – and I am now saying this as a representative of the ÖVP, which actually benefits the smaller parties – that we voluntarily limit ourselves to sending out only two speakers on a subject. This could, I think, contribute significantly to increasing Parliament's reputation. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We're just sending one!]] – Mrs Colleague, you also come along so often, because you belong to a small party. So that's just a proposal in good faith to think about it. In conclusion, however, I would like to welcome the broad support of this law, which is now before us, and I would like to thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9736	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 2473 of the Supplements. Mr Heinzl, Mr Bartenstein, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment which has amendments to the content of Articles 1 and 2. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I should like to refer immediately to the draft and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Heinzl, Dr. Bartenstein, ladies and gentlemen. If you join him, I'll ask for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. If you also support this draft law at third reading, I would ask for a sign of approval. – That too is decided. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. [[12:32:01]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 2339/A(E) by Mr Mag. Helene Jarmer, Anton Heinzl, Mag. Karin Hakl, Dr. Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, Mag. Rainer Widmann, Martina Schenk, colleagues in the field of barrier-free telecommunications as an important contribution to the equality and inclusion of people with disabilities and the Amendment No 750/A(E) by Mr Mag. Helene Jarmer, colleagues in the creation of a telephone communications centre for the deaf, the deaf and the deaf, as well as for the deaf (2474, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9815	We're coming to 4. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9843	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Values Advisors! The present proposal from the Transport Committee includes the development and promotion of accessible telecommunications as an important contribution to the equality and inclusion of disabled people. In October 2008, the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities entered into force in Austria. The implementation of this Convention is a task for all departments. The Federal Ministry for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, in cooperation with all other ministries, has prepared the 2012–2020 National Action Plan for Disability. Telecommunications has been one of the topics that has been a major factor in everyday life. Years ago it was unthinkable: Everyday facilitated by access to the Internet, computer, smartphone, access to worldwide communication, and for a long time deaf people could not make independent calls; today this is possible. All people, including those with disabilities, should be made possible a self-determined and independent life. Especially the phone access of deaf, hearing and speech impaired people, but also deaf people, is a huge help here. BMVIT and Minister Doris Buresschafften have already received a broadband offensive: Broadband strategy, including in rural areas Space is very important conditions for the implementation of accessible access to modern communication and information technologies. A comprehensive, comprehensive broadband network as a basis for online services and applications ensures disabled users equal access to all telecommunications services. Similar technical solutions are already available today, such as the Internet with all available programs, Skype lecture functions, multimedia offers in sign language, for example. Users need not only good connections, but also applications. In particular, smaller user groups or marginal groups are often not reached by the market. The AT:net funding programme of the BMVIT has already provided support for the market launch of services and applications. This request has been accepted by all six parties in the Committee and is also to be understood as a task of continuing the very good way of making telecommunications accessible, especially those who do not have easy access to these technologies through a restriction in life, in the interests of equal participation of all in our information society.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9891	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9912	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! I should like to begin by thanking the House for having made such an uncomplicated request at the end of the legislative period. I would also like to thank Mr Jarmer of the Greens, who will unfortunately not speak today, for the initiative and also for our ÖVP disabled spokesperson Franz-Joseph Huainigg, who is always very active here. The application will examine how to further improve access for deaf, deaf and even people with special needs for modern communication opportunities in Austria. The technology alone already brings massive improvements here. We see, however, that Switzerland has established a translation institute, which is a foundation. This is a very expensive matter. 150 interpreters translate from sign language into language and back and work there all the time. A total of 10,000 conversations are offered each year, so every day a large number of conversations are translated into sign language, but also support for deaf people. I am very glad that Mrs Bundesminister has promised to examine the possibilities we have here in Austria, to provide something similar for the people of Austria. Thank you for the initiative of the two speakers for disability from ÖVP and Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9955	Next speaker. Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e9976	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! An application that is certainly a good one, a right one, going in the right direction. The problem, I think, is that many people have the idea when it comes to accessibility, it's just about wheelchair drivers or people with disabilities. Accessibility for the disabled includes much, much more, and we must bring it into the minds of the people. This proposal will certainly contribute to this. If you think of deaf people or people with speech and hearing disabilities, deaf people, then it is often quite different assistance that these disabled people need when they just need a wheelchair driver. It is therefore also good and right and important to set up initiatives in this direction. If my predecessor meant, it went uncomplicated: Yes, but it is not yet very far away, unfortunately God. I would like such things to work much faster, so that we come to concrete results much faster. I hope that, with the help of this request, something will continue in the education of consciousness, including in other areas. Disability policy is a policy which, as it were, goes into everyday life everywhere, where there is still a great deal to do and where there is no need for a consolidation package, the freedom of access is stopped. That is why I am glad that we now have at least once a boost. I also hope that this agreement will continue to ensure that all the parties for the fellow citizens who have special needs need special equipment, will continue to work together in the future and will continue to help these people to achieve self-determination and a self-determined life in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10009	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10031	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today I can really speak on behalf of my colleague Helene Jarmer and thank her very, very much – and thank you too – for taking the initiative to enable telecommunications without barriers in a very important area, in a life-saving area. I would like to thank you for the fact that it was possible as soon as possible to make this proposal, tabled by my colleague Jarmer, a common concern. I am particularly grateful for the handshake quality of Mr Heinzl von der SPÖ. Thank you also to the Minister for having immediately taken up this suggestion, which is very, very legitimate. This suggestion is particularly justified because today my colleague Helene Jarmer cannot take part in the National Council meeting because, unfortunately, she has suffered a fire because of her disability, i.e. because she is impaired both in hearing and speaking, she has not been able to understand the fire brigade immediately, because of delays and the extent of the fire was, of course, greater. It is really an unpleasant coincidence, not only a very pitiful one, but also a significant coincidence that, at the moment when a request is decided here, where a consistent action is being taken here, where a maltreatment is being done, at the same time, this abuse, which is not possible in the event of an emergency, is the cause of the fact that Members Jarmer, who have taken control of this abuse, has been prevented here today. A double disability, you could almost say! In so doing, I hope that this case, in all its complexity and personal tragedy, will also be an occasion for us to take decisions together not only in the policy of the people with disabilities, but also in the face of other concerns in the interests of the people more offensively and jointly. I regret that our request for insurance for people who have suffered from flood damage has simply been voted away completely, instead of talking about it. Mrs Minister, thank you for implementing this telecommunications application. It is hoped that this level will continue in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10085	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10106	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Moser, that Member Jarmer has now become practically a victim of maladministration. We would all be glad if we had already implemented things with the barrier-free telecommunications service. There are already such things in Switzerland and the USA. There, barrier-free telecommunications is already taking place. So-called relayers allow for the direct communication of deaf, speech - impaired and deaf people with hearing people and vice versa. That's the turn and go. I am glad that there has been a consensus in this respect, which has also been quickly implemented, that we have formulated a common request. The initiative is based on the two speakers of the disabled who are themselves concerned. But you see, you can already implement a lot together in this House with a little good will. We are in favour of the rapid establishment of a telephone transmission centre for deaf, hearing and speech-restraint people, so that these people with disabilities, who do not have such an easy time in life, can lead a self-determined life and are not in danger of being pitted by a fire of housing.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10143	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10164	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I am very happy about this six-party proposal. Unfortunately, something often has to happen so that we react. Thank God it wasn't the case here! Here. We have done all the good conscience and have said: We need to change something! This case of Mr Jarmer is touching me because we have actually gone a step further. Name: We have already introduced an emergency scanner in caring for sick people. So if the person who can't help himself anymore, or when something happens, presses the emergency button, the rescue comes immediately. Perhaps we should take such a step in the case of people with disabilities, because we know that it will take a while, until the whole thing is implemented, and that will cost a lot of money. Mrs. Minister! In the field of telephony, we need a signal strength that this language orientation is going on at all, so that it also arrives properly and that the quality has increased so that people understand people with disabilities. Perhaps you should consider in a first step whether you should not also introduce an emergency scanner for these people, so that in a fire, the fire brigade can immediately run out. Perhaps one could implement it with the support of the federal government – to the extent that the basic fee for this emergency scanner costs per month. I think that would be a first step that does not cost much. This could help unbureaucratically and quickly in cases like the one that happened to our colleague Jarmer. I think that should be remembered. This proposal is a real step. However, it will take a while until it is implemented. Therefore, the solution with the emergency scanner would be a great thing until then. Maybe you'll think about it, Mrs. Minister. We've proved it when it comes to the rescue in recent years that it's working. And if Mr Jarmer had had this emergency scanner, the fire brigade would have been daily in two minutes and it could have prevented a lot of bad luck. I am pleased that all the parties are in favour of this proposal, because that is a real step. As you can see, you can also move something right and good together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10209	Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10231	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is particularly important for new communication technologies that all people have access to this new form of knowledge society, which is also closely linked to communication and the Internet and all these technologies. I really want to allow this participation in social life for everyone, regardless of what social origin one is, whether one is poor or rich, whether one is living in the city or in the rural area, and of course, especially for people with special needs. This motion for a resolution, as well as the statement of words, is proof that, although many believe that there is no such thing in politics or in the Austrian Parliament, there are things that are not disputed where we say: We're moving on to a line, we're going on together! We will certainly not be able to solve all the problems of the world with modern technologies, but it is a good example of sharing in social life for people with disabilities that you can achieve something for the benefit of all with new technologies. I would like to thank you for the common procedure on this issue and also for documenting externally that there is a close-up across all party borders on important issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10273	No further words are available. The debate is closed. We now come to the vote on the resolution on accessibility-free telecommunications attached to the Committee's report 2474 as an important contribution to the equality and inclusion of people with disabilities. I would ask those Members who are in favour of it to give an acceptable sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 312.) [[12:49:16]] 5. Point Report of the National Defence Committee on the report of the Federal Government on the Austrian Security Strategy Security in a New Decade – Making Security (III-218/2524, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10315	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Pilz was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10346	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a Parliamentary custom to work out a security doctor together in this House. The last Security Doctrine was prepared in this House in 2002 and then, because we could not agree, decided with the majority of the government. This time, the Security Doctrine has not been prepared in this House, but we have been invited to present political texts, which have been edited by ministerial offices, and we have been informed from ministerial offices, primarily from the Federal Minister of Defence's office, what is in front of the Minister's eyes and what is not what Parliament should discuss and what is not. A product of Klug’s dimensions has come out: a security doctor who has an expiry date, namely most likely the next National Council election. But just how important it is that a security doctor is the basis of a common security policy, shows the events of the last few days. The Snowden case and the American NSA affair is a prime affair of security policy. It is only about so-called American security interests that the United States today can successfully extortion states in Latin America, Russia, in the European Union and enforce their political extortion. Poland has become the victim of political blackmail. Norway has become the victim of political blackmail. Now Spain has also become the victim of political extortion. The United States is able and willing only to track a data protector globally in order to track a dissident globally, to extort entire states so that they lock the airspace, because there is only suspicion that it could be on board an aircraft. It is an immense fact that such political blackmails are now possible in the middle of the European Union and that an important Member State of the European Union, namely Spain, is born like a banana republic of the United States of North America. It's a horrendous thing! And that needs a political answer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If Spain acts like a banana republic, it is important that there are Member States of the European Union who do the opposite and clearly indicate that we do not submit to these blackmails that we are on the side of data protection, on the side of citizens' rights and not on the side of the global American surveillance state. [[Abg. Pendl: Exactly!]] That's why it's important to signal: Edward Snowden is to be given asylum in the European Union, and the neutral Austria is to offer Edward Snowden this political asylum! Edward Snowden is politically persecuted. If, for his part, the airspace in Spain and other countries is already blocked, what is the other thing than the evidence of political persecution?- Oh, my God! Then I would like to know one thing: not only whether the Federal Government, whether the Foreign Minister and whether the Minister for the Interior are willing to take the only meaningful and respectable step and offer this asylum, but also whether they are willing to ask for information on the activities of the NSA in Austria. We know today that there is systematic cooperation between the Austrian Army News Office and the NSA. We know that this is contractually agreed. We know who has the NSA's representation towards Austria. We know what the contents of this cooperation are. We know that an American citizen is sitting in tentway at the military airfield and having direct access on behalf of his company – and I would be very surprised if this company did not hide the three letters N, S and A – about the Black Box on all Eurofighter data. In Austria – and this is a serious suspicion – the NSA has direct access to all airspace monitoring data. We've known this for weeks! And we have basically known this since the investigations of the Eurofighter Examining Committee. We also know that well over ten so-called partner services work closely with the Army News Office. We know that well over 20 so-called partner services work secretly with the Constitutional Protection and exchange data and share Austrian data. We know that NSAs and other American federal authorities have direct access to important and protective Austrian data. And we also know that there have been attacks – not just noise attacks, not just computer attacks! – at Austrian representations abroad. I expect the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior to report on these attacks on Austrian diplomatic missions, that Parliament will be informed about them and that the public will also be informed about them. We had a meeting of the Subcommittee on Defence at 8 a.m. in the morning. I am not entitled to disclose anything about the contents of this meeting here, because this subcommittee is subject to strictest secrecy. But one thing I can say: The Minister of Defence has refused to answer all the essential questions concerning the activities of the NSA in Austria and the so-called partner services. He has not answered any of our central questions! The colleagues from the Freedom Party and we have therefore called again today to the Subcommittee of the National Defence Committee, because we simply do not let ourselves be planted and because we have the right to find out from the Minister of Defence in this secret committee of the Austrian Parliament, what foreign services do in Austria and how far Austrian services are covered by them. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ]] We as Parliament have a right to be informed about this. Mr Klug, if you are not prepared to do so in the secret subcommittee, I will address this question publicly to you: from Eurofighter, from attacks on diplomatic institutions to systematic cooperation with NSAs and other services. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important for the Republic of Austria to say clearly and clearly which side we are on: on the side of the American surveillance state or on the side of those who risk their professional and personal existence in order to protect the citizens of that Republic from the American surveillance state? I expect the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and also the Minister for the Interior to have a clear attitude on this issue by the Republic of Austria and a clear initiative for an asylum for Snowden and against the American surveillance state in Austria and in the European Union! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10415	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10437	Ladies and gentlemen! [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Smart.]] That's right! Actually, the title “Austrian Security Strategy” now means. And I was actually expecting a few bright words from my previous speaker about the security strategy. I didn't hear that, though. We all, who are speaking today, have worked on this – unless we have known it before or have been involved in this process – and believe that this security strategy actually addresses the burning questions of this comprehensive security concept, which is also linked to many fears in the population, namely, if this security claim is not fulfilled, answers that have been given enough. And in this broad field – economy, social affairs, integration, development, environment, agriculture, finance, transport, infrastructure, education, information and communication – we also come to the point that Peter Pilz referred to in the broadest sense. It is also talking about cyber attacks and the need for protection that the population is right to do. But this goes far beyond the complex, which is the subject of the public debate under the title ‘NSA’. For example, in this paper on the security strategy, the territorial integrity of Austria in the conventional sense is not at all at risk because of the geopolitical situation and because of the historical development phase we are in. And then a number of threats are listed, where I think that this is something that is also felt and discussed in the population and on which a responsible policy has to be addressed. And she's also going on it, that's point by point. On pages 6 and 7, we have a comprehensive point of view, namely the comprehensive protection of the Austrian population, the protection of the rule of law, social peace, cohesion, the strengthening of democratic society, the efficient economy, measures on national, international, humanitarian and disaster aid, the instruments available for that purpose, the necessary financial resources to natural events. Everything is connected with this legitimate feeling in the population, politics, but not only politics, but also the institutions of the state must make a contribution here. They must also be able to make the contribution due to the instruments, due to the material design, that they meet this security feeling and these safety conditions. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] The last point in this notation on pages 6 and 7 is also the demand for a broad sense of security in the population. That is why I think it is also good to have this debate, today here in Parliament and also outside Parliament, in order to really develop this safety awareness, because it also requires cooperation and partnerships in the guarantee of this security. There is, of course, also a puncture which, in a narrow sense, deals with the fight against crime, with new ways of preventing, strengthening and safeguarding asylum as human rights et cetera, of course also against illegal migration, and in order to also protect data. Here I come back to the point: NSA – Protect data! I didn't fully understand what was meant by the attack on the Minister of Defence. There is no one in here who does not condemn what has now happened under the NSA complex. But I mean, you don't have to push yourself into world politics now. That is already another dimension that goes far beyond this House! I believe that the European Union, not only in the negotiations on a free trade agreement, will now have to consider something in relation to the USA: what steps will be taken to ensure that this security on the Internet, this security in telephoning, this security in the data area, for example, for European citizens. That is, I think, a weighting or that is, so to speak, a negotiating partner who goes far beyond, we say, “Peter Pilz negotiates with the USA” or something else goes out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] I say it in this dimension, because, I think, this shows: There's China, there's Russia. Snowden is located just at the Russian airport – I mean, that goes far – provides an asylum application to 18 countries. But of course he got the real offer from President Putin, and that will probably have his reason. There are now levels of global debate, including, of course, the security concept, security on the Internet globally and worldwide, which search engines have participated and which have not. I think what Snowden did has a historical dimension. That's very important! This indicates that we all need to become active in order to protect all of us. I think that we should look at this story objectively and not try, so to speak, to collect some small points at the expense of or at the expense of the ‘most courageous man’, as the ‘profile’ has written, but we should really try to take the steps that the US needs to show these boundaries, as well as in Austria, directly, but also in the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Which one?]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Which one?]] That's what we're discussing today! We've got in there... [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] Peter Pilz, if, of course, you already have everything in the drawer and have an answer to every question, then you should have become a cult leader, but not a security spokesman of the Greens. Honestly, I'd like to tell you that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With all friendship, but you should take that into account. I believe that we will have to work it out, and this paper, this security strategy is really the basis. You should praise it and not punish it here by non-mentioned ones! I'd like to say that.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10522	The next speaker is Mr Deputies List. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10544	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Defence! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Austria's current security policy is dominated by pleas and pans, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, it's a real disaster! The Golan deduction of our blue helmets is the complete task of Austria's foreign policy. The responsible Foreign Minister Spindelegger accepts our international commitment. The situation and the situation on the ground were completely misestimated and also misjudged. In a delicate phase of its historical responsibility for Israel, Austria is deprived of its responsibility and can probably be replaced by soldiers of the Fiji Islands in a macabre way. This is an international embarrassment to potency, a pleite of first rank! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] After this early withdrawal of our soldiers from the Golan, this failed federal government is delivering the next security-political debacle, namely the red-black security strategy in a new decade. This safety strategy was sloppy created, very sloppy, and should now be blessed by the plenary in a Husch-Fuch-Action even before the election. [[Abg. Hoefinger: In a vote!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is an immense process which we reject from the BZÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To recall some facts about this presentation of the security strategy: The government parties, but above all the EIA, have blocked all the deliberations in the committees for over two years. Her failed Minister of Defense Darabos has repeatedly requested discussions in the Security Strategy Committee. In doing so, he was at the blockade of the ÖVP – the ÖVP delegates are the objectors in the committees! – also bite out the teeth. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The opposition was also deliberately hampered by cooperation. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Significant proposals have been disregarded and sufficient debates have been held. Now, suddenly, before the election in September, this strategy needs to be whipped through with all its resources in Parliament. That's incredible! This is the wrong way, a procedure that we reject from the BZÖ on the sharpest. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, the blacks boast that this security strategy is their masterpiece, because the aid efforts are being exaggerated. – However, we must present a sad finding: This strategy is a lean piece of work without forward-looking security policy orientation in the common Europe! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the ÖVP! Many experts and experts who are not in the soldiers of SPÖ and ÖVP are crushing this paper on the sharpest. Criticism is severe. In concrete terms, a few serious shortcomings need to be identified: For example, there is a lack of the financial basis. The budgeting of at least 1 percent of GDP will not be committed. The Austrian federal army is being downgraded into an auxiliary force. Military core tasks are specifically excluded. The demilitarisation of defence policy will be sustainable. However, more and more, security-policy tasks can only be done in cooperation with the European Union – you all know that this is so – but this option is completely missing. This is strongly criticized by the leading military. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This list of deficiencies can be extended at any time. Among them are many interesting security policy arguments that need to be discussed. There are important assessment criteria to be considered with care. They impressively confirm our demands for additional consultations with experts. Only on this basis, after the discussions, will the new security policy orientation take place in Austria and Europe, and only then will it have its right of stock. This red-black strategy is not matured. It does not meet the future safety requirements and will need to be repaired in Bälden. The logical consequence: It must be returned to the start and renegotiated immediately! Summary: There is no time pressure for this security strategy. The 2002 security strategy is valid and appropriate. It was created by the then Federal Government with Herbert Scheibner as a minister more conscientious, with much more effort and more serious. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Oh, that's why!]] It's better than this draft. You haven't compared that, we know that anyway. Therefore, the BZÖ rejects this lean new strategy of red and black. The strategy is a cheap alibi action of this failed federal government before the election. It is a step back to security policy. In this way, the EIA has also adopted Europe's security policy in the light of the failed foreign policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10662	Mr Maij-Weggen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10683	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Liste, thank God, this security strategy is the opposite of what you have said here. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I think that with the three-party proposal we are presenting a good security strategy for the secure future of Austria. I'm afraid you didn't understand. So it's right that you reject it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. With this security strategy now in place, we will meet the new threat scenarios. We assume that we see the way in which the Cold War takes place, but we are trying to put the international interrelationships much more in the foreground. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a fool!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Did you read the two-ones?]] We are also trying to draw attention to the internal and external threats scenarios. Today – by the way – it was the only right thing for Dr. Pilz – it has already been mentioned that Cyberwar is one of the greatest threat scenarios of the future. That is why it is also clearly defined how we want to protect ourselves from internal political and foreign policy, especially in terms of security policy as a whole. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 55 000 men, we have written this down, we want to offer to protect Austria, so to speak: Protection and assistance in the event of disasters, protection and assistance in order to guarantee our foreign operations, and protection and assistance to maintain, so to speak, the state structure. We will be able to offer 12 500 present forces in the future to ensure, if floods come back, as we unfortunately have seen in the past, that God has often experienced the same protection and assistance for the population in conjunction with the civilian forces. The interaction with civil forces is also part of this security strategy, and it is clearly defined and defined. I also thank you for having succeeded in saying yes to foreign operations. With 1 100 men, we guarantee that Austria will be involved in international peace missions. That's important. What we have also set out here is that we want to be involved in a common security and defence policy in Europe in the future. This cooperation, which has refused part of the opposition here, we also want to express strongly in Europe in order to join a common security and defence policy. Ladies and gentlemen, there can now be no mention of these many points from the speaker's desk. I can assure you – those who will give your approval here today – that this security strategy is a good basis for Austrian security. I thank Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer very much. I thank you very much, but above all Stefan Prehauser, who will give his last parliamentary speech today, for the good cooperation he has courageously done in this House as an interlocutor. Dear Stefan Prehauser, I wish you all the best on behalf of the ÖVP Group for the new phase of life! I thank you for your work in the interests of the security of Austria and wish you all the best! [[Complementary with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft from Stefan Prehauser, Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer and from me, we can be sure that Austria will continue to be safe in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10767	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10789	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the criticism of the toothless work that is being decided here remains true. [[Abg. Clickovits: Not read either!]] I would like to present the security strategy as such to you in a few points. The following shall be listed: the effective control of intelligence activities which are detrimental to Austria; Set operational priorities with the following objectives: To use and protect data, to ensure fundamental, freedom and human rights. The consistent commitment to global human rights. And: the development of cooperation between Austria and the EU, taking into account European values, and self-confident representation of the rights and fundamental freedoms of the Austrian population and economy in international transport with key partners such as the USA and Russia and with the emerging powers, also with regard to efforts to solve sustainable problems in international crisis regions. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, you are talking about one – and just decide on the other. They're talking about the difficulty of international interdependence, but they're not doing anything. The Edward Snowden case clearly shows this. This is the great criticism that must be voiced here in terms of Edward Snowden and also in terms of the security strategy. [[Abg. Clickovits: He has nothing to do with it!]] Snowden clearly does something for democracy, so I am convinced that Austria should and could also do something for Edward Snowden. He makes it clear to us that the case is so stored that a political refugee, who upholds and points out European civil rights, has deserved protection here as well. As a neutral country, Austria should take a very clear step to protect Edward Snowden here as well. Compliance with and respect for citizens' rights are part of the security strategy. They should not only discuss it, but actually implement it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10838	The next item is the speech by Mr Kunasek. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10860	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! First of all, before we come to the security strategy, I would like to refer once again to the first speech, namely that of Mr Pilz, because I also believe that it is important here in Parliament to discuss the NSA and the links between them, perhaps also in Austria. I must confess quite openly, even if the Subcommittee of the National Defence Committee is secret, Peter Pilz can only be given right here if he says: If not where else one should talk about these links, one should also talk about cooperations between our domestic services with foreign services! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Federal Minister! Here I expect you to speak and answer. Here I am also at the Clubobmann Cap, who says we must become active in this area. – Then we will! And if the Federal Government does not, then we should be a self-confident Parliament. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the security strategy: Yes, we will agree. We will therefore agree because we have always said – and I too, as a new spokesperson and as chairman of the Defence Committee – that security and defence policy should be outside the party's dispute. I also say quite openly, however, ladies and gentlemen: We're far away from the big throw! We now have a paper in our hands, which will also support our recommendations. presented, around 80 in the number. It is now up to us and above all also to the Federal Government and the Minister to make the most of these recommendations. However, we have clearly stated that it is also good to make ongoing updates in this strategy that we also recognize that there are cyber threats. We recognized it. Now it is also up to us and the Federal Government to develop appropriate measures, to also resolve disputes of competence, who is ultimately responsible, for security should be at the centre of the line. We have also – and this is also important to us Freedoms – eroded the neutral role of Austria in international conflict prevention management, where we can take appropriate positions as a neutral country as intermediaries. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as defence policy is concerned, we have found military duty again. However, we also – and this is also pleased because of the results of the popular survey – have the appeal of the ground defense service. Mr Federal Minister, your efforts in all honours: We are not yet ready to be really attractive on the road! I also dare to doubt that we can make it cost-neutral because, as we all know, reforms need appropriate resources. We are already at an important criticism point, which has also come from the list of Members. We find in this work numbers, yes: We find figures when it comes to the total strength of the federal army; we find figures when it comes to how many soldiers are to be abroad. But the essential figures – and we all know: without money ka Musi; that's what we say in the Styria – that is, the budget, we do not find! With the budget I mean the recommendations of the Federal Hero-Reform Commission, which were clearly fixed at 1 percent. Here, we would have liked Freemans to see this confession drawn out more clearly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also strange to think about certain groups of persons in the Federal Army. In this case, these are the women who should also have career opportunities and also have them. On the other hand, however, other groups of persons such as the officers are not taken into account at all. I'm just saying, This is still not a recognised profession. Federal Minister! I really call on you to become active in the probably short period of time that you are still a minister, so that we can also achieve something for our officers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, this is a viable compromise. It is not the big throw, but at least once a positive frame that can ensure – and “can” capitalize – that we achieve positive results for the safety of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that the issue of national defence in this legislative period is on the agenda here in plenary. That is why I would like to remind you that in the past period we have already experienced how defence policy should not work. I ask everyone not to forget about the summer. Unfortunately, Mr Darabos is not here now, but he has proved to us how he is not doing: It is not possible for a minister to place party-political interests on the interests of the federal army and security when he makes chaotic personnel decisions in many areas – I remember the Causa attachers. Overall, the way in which it is managed has caused massive uncertainty not only to the soldiers but also to the Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! This should be written to us in the main book: We do not want this kind of defence policy! It is not enough to decide on 80 or 79 recommendations today, we must also live up to it. Mr Federal Minister, I also ask you: Do you also live your defence and security policy as we imagine it to be a freeman? We are willing to do so when it comes to standing up for a functioning federal army and for a safe Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10953	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e10974	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speakers have said, in security policy as in foreign policy, we should try to ignore party policy, because it is simply a matter of fundamental values and functions of a state. However, as far as the preparation of the Security Doctor is concerned, I do not have the impression that the opposition has played particularly party-political games. There were rather problems within the coalition, which prevented the draft of the Security Doctrine from being prepared quickly and presented in time. Let's remember: Negotiations started in 2011. Originally, there have always been disputes between SPÖ and ÖVP: Obligation: Yes or no? Then it was suggested that one should define the tasks to be carried out with this military system before deciding the question of the military system in itself, which is reasonable. That is why the discussion about a new security and defence doctrine has emerged. The then Minister said that the old one from 2001 was too NATO-laden, whatever that might mean. I think Mr Maij-Weggen has not read this doctrine from 2001 yet, although he or at least his group has agreed to it. This, of course, includes the situation change since the end of the Cold War. The framework conditions, I believe, have been very clearly and honestly maintained. Of course, this doctrine from 2001 must and should be further developed. Cyber-War was not a subject at the time, terrorism very well. But the question is: How do you do this? There were very good negotiations and discussions in 2011. I would really like to say that and, above all, I would also like to draw out Mr Prehauser. I've had the feeling that he really wants as broad a consensus as possible. We had very good conversations. I said: Even if I do not think that you have to write a completely new doctrine now, we are willing to actively participate. That was in 2011. Then, suddenly, nothing more could be heard of these negotiations, then suddenly this military discussion appeared again in the coalition, although one has actually said that we need the security doctor first. Then they said: The security doctor must wait for the decision to be made on the obligation of military service! This decision was then taken by a People's Survey, which this government has declared binding. Now you make exactly this mistake, which I have already presented: Instead of taking the decision on the military system on the basis of a safety doctrine, it is the other way round. The foundations are now being built according to this execution of the military system, and that is certainly the wrong way. That's one of our main criticisms on this paper. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, the time must also be criticized, because a security doctor should be prepared very quickly at the beginning of a legislative period in order to be able to implement the necessary measures as far as possible together. Who knows what a new government is bringing back to ideas. I do not believe that security policy in Austria and also the institutions, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, does not need us to have a discussion about the doctrine every six months. A few more points: The militia is a very important point. All over, you can hear how important the militia is. Mr Federal Minister, I wonder why in this Security Doctrine the militia occurs only in the chapter of foreign operations. They shake the head, but that's the way it is. Maybe I read it, then you can comment on it. The militia is presented as important for international efforts, for the promotion of the necessary forces. But I believe that a domestic order would be meaningful for the militia. Just now, the Jägerbataillon Wien 2, Wiener Milizsoldaten, is practicing very dedicated, very motivated. But they ask for the order. What order do they have in the country and not only abroad? They do not want to go abroad, they give a part of their free time to ultimately guarantee with their own lives for the security of our country. At least one order must be given to them and say: Yes, for these and those tasks, such as the protection of objects, the protection of critical infrastructure, the militia is used, including for the use of disasters. That would necessarily be necessary. Mr. Federal Minister, I've asked you this before. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Smart.]] – Have you already announced it? I have seen the structured militia of your predecessor as a reasonable project. She wasn't used in the flood now. That would be an important thing – what does not mean? [[Federal Minister Mag. Smart: Was not requested!]] [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Mag. Smart.]] – Then you just have to discuss this issue. You're now paying €5,000 to people who won't be used because it doesn't require anyone. Just as you don't solve the basic problem with the basic defenses. They are formed for six months and then they are not used because they are sent home. From my point of view, these are all points to be dealt with. But they have lost nothing in a security doctor, because, as has been said, the military system is another consequence. However, it would be important to make a clear commitment to international action and also to international, common security policy. I see colleagues Cap from around ten years ago, no longer than 15 years before me and still have his words in his ears when he was a pronounced representative of the NATO accession to Austria. Only then, when he became a clubman did he have to abdicate him. I do not understand this contradiction in our security policy. We're going to NATO operations. Although the then red and black German government has de facto abolished neutrality with the constitutional change in 1998, Austria can also participate in fighting efforts to create peace, it is still in the doctrine that the commitment to neutrality is found. It's held high everywhere. NATO is so angry in your eyes that you don't want to become a member and talk with us, but we're already there in NATO, like Kosovo. You could continue with some contradictions: In a security doctrine, for example, Austria's opinion on international nuclear policy is also one of the nuclear weapons. If we vote in favour of a common European security and defence policy, it is impossible for me to see Britain and France, two members of this European security and defence structure, still decide on their own use of nuclear weapons. We even want nuclear weapons to be rejected. France and the UK should then not be able to decide when, where and how they use them. These would be all things that would have been interesting to discuss. I can only put on this fragmentary. Unfortunately, after you seem to have been collapsing internally and agreeing on a common paper, there has been no more time to discuss it comprehensively. That is why, although we wanted to do so from the outset, we cannot contribute to this common consensus, at least not with regard to this decision-making. I hope, however, that in the future, security policy will be a bit more honest in consensus and perhaps in the past than it has been in the past. Federal Minister! I have brought you to read our own security doctor, our security policy programme, which brings some knowledge from a situation assessment to a proposal of a federal army structure. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11046	For an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Smartly reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11067	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. With today's Security Strategy decision, I believe that we are setting out the Austrian security policy for the next decade, for about ten years at least, and we have a good basic paper. We are significantly adapting Austrian security policy to the changed international conditions. This will also enable us to meet our national requirements in order to meet the security challenges together in the next few years. The Austrian Federal Army is thus given a clear political mandate from the Hohe Haus for further reform. In this context, I should like to thank all the parties and all the experts who have been constructively involved in this process. A total of six subcommittee meetings on the National Defence Committee discussed and discussed very intensively. I myself was also allowed to bring in my own ideas in two sessions. It has already been referred to, and I would like to thank my predecessor Norbert Darabos very warmly and expressly for his commitment to the political debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also believe that many of the proposals and suggestions of the opposition parties have been received independently of the final agreement, and I believe that we wanted to go on a partnership path in order to ultimately achieve the broadest possible consensus on security policy. If we make a decision beyond the government parties today, I am very pleased. A multi-party consensus also increases this strategy politically, and I expressly say that it was also important to me. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would like to expressly to the Committee president, Dr. Thanks to spruce builders for their constructive leadership, for his personal commitment and for his personal handshake quality. [[Call at the FPÖ: This is also urgently needed!]] Mr Volksanwalt, thank you very much! That's a good opportunity. I have already mentioned this in the Committee, but if I have the opportunity to express my appreciation of a Member from the Government Bank, I would like to do so at this point. Thank you very much for your commitment. It may sound pathetic, but may you – under quotations – still have “spirits” for the heart of the Austrian federal army for a long time in this house and in particular in your political family. – Thank you very much. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from interested parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The irrevocable foundation of Austrian security policy is and remains the constant neutrality. This security strategy guarantees that Austria will not join any military alliance in the future. [[Abg. Where's that?]] In clear demarcation to the old defense doctor from 2001 a NATO accession is definitely excluded. Perhaps parts of the BZÖ have a problem with it for this reason. This makes an important safety policy correction, which is also in line with the expectations of the Austrians. In the sense of the security strategy, Austrian neutrality is not a security-political step-by-step approach, but an active commitment to international peace. [[Call the BZÖ: They tell the people the untruth!]] The new character of our security policy is seen as a special opportunity for design. Since we, as a neutral country, are not committed to an alliance, we can act more credible than international intermediaries and work for humanitarian purposes. The new strategy sets very concrete neutrality priorities, particularly in the area of conflict prevention, disarmament and conflict mediation. Ladies and gentlemen! But one thing is clear: Many of the new cross-border risks can only be addressed in cooperation. We will therefore intensify the path of Europeanisation and cooperation with equal partners, in particular with our Central European neighbours, in order to address transnational security problems, such as conflict management, international disaster aid, anti-terrorism and the like. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where is the neutrality?]] At European level, this strategy is committed to the European Union's as independent a security policy as possible, but always under the United Nations peace-making primacy. In the sense of European security and solidarity, Austria will therefore retain and provide skills to participate in the entire spectrum of civil and military tasks of the United Nations and the EU. However, this is done with specialized, high-quality forces and in part-time work. [[Abg. List: But this is a wishful concert!]] The guidelines for the future international security policy orientation are thus summarised in short: Expand cooperation, continue the international commitment at a high level and sharpen the profile. Ladies and gentlemen! To clarify: The Austrian Federal Army is enshrined in the new security strategy as an essential element of internal and external security. The Austrian Federal Army is and therefore remains an independent factor within the scope of comprehensive security precautions. The political mission is clearly defined: Nationally, the Federal Army will continue to provide and ensure protection and assistance to the Austrian population. Internationally, we will continue to make tangible and solidarity contributions to crisis management and remain a reliable team leader. Mr Maij-Weggen has explicitly pointed out the quantity: a total of 55 000 soldiers, 12 500 soldiers for disaster aid, 1 100 soldiers for foreign operations. Mr Scheibner! This will continue to be a top group among the leaders of the European Union. In addition, there should be a pool of 100 experts for conflict prevention purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to expressly note that domestic and foreign tasks are carefully balanced in this document and politically equally weighted. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am convinced that with this strategy we can actively shape the safety of Austria for the benefit of the people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this occasion, allow me to address some aspect of the matter, and, of course, the next item on the agenda offers a good opportunity to address it. Member of the list! Don't be mad at me to hold it at this point. If you still, even now at hour, appreciate and reflect the situation in the Middle East as you did today, I'm sorry, you didn't understand. [[Abg. List: Yes, yes, I did not get it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kunasek! I would like to draw attention to something, especially if it comes from a Member who is chairman of the National Defence Committee: It is quite clear that a dedicated and great project like the military service Neu, which we have jointly put on its feet, cannot be implemented at the so-called political zero tariff. I have therefore pointed out clearly in the joint presentation with our colleague Mikl-Leiter that in this context, we are making available €30 million from the budget in the defence department – I am drawing attention to the fact that this is €300 million in ten years – and in addition, the Ministry of Finance has provided an initial funding of €14 million. It is therefore clear and clearly new money that we want to provide for this attractive model. It has been mentioned that the assistants are always about the same thing. Mr Scheibner, you know that. The specific question is that the Austrian federal army must also be requested. [[Abg. Scheibner: But they do not demand a concrete battalion!]] As you have referred to the militia, I would like to expressly draw attention to two relevant passages in the Defense Doctrine and the Security Document. In the area of defence policy, Mr Scheibner, there is the cross-reference with the Austrian federal constitution as the basis, and the militia is clearly and clearly subject to Article 79. In the area of military defence, under Z 6, we have expressly anchored under Z 6 a low-adapted ability to grow and thus, of course, also the militia as a sub-element. Ladies and gentlemen, you may in general allow me – without now wanting to cover this so important topic of the defence and security strategy in a narrow sense with another important topic – to make a sentence on some of the accusations that stand here in the room: I express my appreciation for the fact that today, in connection with the Committee meeting in the morning, I took account of all the legal requirements, and I hope, honourable Member, that everyone else has done so too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11216	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11237	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Minister! High house! After these grueling words of the Minister of Defence, who could not even wait for all the political groups to make their contribution and give their opinion, I should like to come back to the subject of Security Doctrine again. Security is known to be one of the most important needs of the Austrian population, both internal security and external security. The report of the Ministry of Defence on the Austrian security strategy consists of many beautiful words. This has already been mentioned here, and the Minister has now perhaps put it in even more beautiful words. This is all in all a no-na report, which you can all agree with. We will also take note of him, Minister. But I have to say that some improvements could still be made. It goes in the right direction, but it is some very inconspicuously cited. But it would also be important to have clear words from the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Minister – and from you – in which direction the whole army should go. It is always shaky-cut, and statements of intent are outlined. But what I really lack is a principle decision where the Austrian army is developing. What are the needs? What are the requirements for the army? - I'm missing it. To this end, I would like to say perhaps that it is necessary, of course, to make the necessary financial resources available. After all, once you know in what direction you want, you can equip the army accordingly. But that never comes from your side, Mr Minister, and that is why we have a assembled army with mostly old scraped equipment that devours a lot of money. There are a few sub-areas in which it works, and everything else is so no na. It's just a problem that we don't know exactly whether we want a combat force for foreign operations, a disaster force heading towards the German Technical Assistance Agency or something else, Minister. That's something I'm missing. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In order to equip a federal army properly, you also need the necessary money, Minister. I never hear anything from your side. We have 0.7 percent of GDP for the army – you know for yourself that this is far too little. You should, of course, pick that up, but there never comes anything from you. If you want to have a good army that is well equipped, well-financed and in which the federal army soldiers also get corresponding, decent wages, then you have to get some money into your hand Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So there are still many tasks that you need to do, Minister. Unfortunately, you only have over the summer time. I hope you do a lot of things, and then we'll talk about it in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11292	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner, on a second point of order. If desired, 3 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11313	Excuse me, Mr Prehauser, that your speech will be a bit delayed, but the statements of the Federal Minister for Neutrality have forced me – and thankfully my group has given me a few minutes more time – to take the floor again. Mr Federal Minister, that is not possible now. You have been serious that you stand out here as the Minister of Defense of the Republic and speak on the occasion of the discussion on the security doctor about the ever-increasing neutrality of Austria, which is now continuing to exist, turning the NATO line of the previous government, the old doctrine now. You probably know the formulation in the old security doctor. It has been said that NATO's enlargement process is important to our security. - No, no, no, no, no, NATO is the only security alliance that can also provide security guarantees. If you're talking about the EU security architecture, you know very well that it doesn't work without NATO because no one puts it up twice and pays twice. So every commitment from us – and we ourselves are represented in NATO operations – is directly linked to NATO. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's why you don't have to join NATO yet, but you shouldn't put it that way now, as if it were something quite disastrous. The old doctrine only states that the accession option will be kept in mind and that accession can only take place after a referendum. This is certainly not a dramatic bad thing. Ten years later, one has to say that one has changed the line and that is so important. Now, if you're scratching out the ever-ending neutrality here, you're actually going back 20 years. I cannot imagine that the experts of your ministry have told you so, because, Mr Federal Minister – and I hope I do not have to tell you this, but it has been held here again – the ever-lasting neutrality is not something that you can define yourself. It is a security instrument and has international legal conditions. I do not mean a “normal” neutrality now, because even a NATO state can be neutral in a certain conflict, but the constant neutrality means that one has intermediate obligations in peace. One of the most important obligations that international law has developed for the constantly neutral is the absolute absence of the possibility – even the possibility! – directly intervene in armed conflicts. That is, one can talk about a peacekeeping, to which both parties agree. This has been developed in such a way that this is permissible. But a commitment against the will of one of the parties is absolutely contrary to the constant neutrality. Now I do not need to read to you the Austrian federal constitution. What your party wrote in the Austrian Federal Constitution in 1998 – that is the article 23j, then still in another number – is that Austria is not only possibly participating in a European defence, but that Austria can participate with the Austrian federal army in fighting efforts for peace-making – peace-making, that is, also against the will of one of the parties! Whether or not this is done is, of course, the decision of Austria, but only that it was written into the Austrian federal constitution – and in it every comment on the federal constitution is right – is a so-called material detogation of the provisions of neutrality and the law of neutrality. You can now give it loud or silently and honestly say it outside or not, then you have interpreted it: Neutrality only means no more alliance membership, no more active participation in wars – no na ned! – and no permanent stationing of troops in Austria. This is actually the definition of an alliance-free, but how to name itself is another thing However, if you are going out here today as Minister of Defense and speak of an ever-ending neutrality as the principle of your policy, you either do not know better, or you say here, for whatever reason – I have to say so – the untruth, since it simply does not correspond to the constitutional situation of Austria. It is a pity that you are giving such an opportunity to express your views clearly in a fundamental security policy debate. To conclude: If you think that the militia is really outstretched, and then have to argue with cross-references to the federal constitution and with the ability to grow up – which is quite a bit different from the question of whether the militia is involved here – then it actually shows that you are not really taking the militia seriously and don't mean it honestly, and that's too bad. But on international law and the Austrian federal constitution, perhaps some information from your profound office and the institutions of the Austrian federal army would be necessary and useful.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11380	I call Mr Prehauser. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11402	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Where's the federal army? What is his mission? – These questions have to be asked by policy. But it must also tell the population what we have a federal army for. The people should know what they can count on when it comes to protecting them. I believe that the security strategy that we have worked out together is in line with that. However, we in politics now have the task of ensuring that the army can also fulfil its mission to fulfill the orders we assign to him – that is, we will have to provide the appropriate financial resources for the next time. I know we're not swimming in money right now. I know we still have a few years ahead of us in which we have to work accordingly. Until then, homework has to be done, the structure has to be improved in such a way that the army of the prescribed size is also met. In the end, however, the army also aims to be a secure job for those people – men and women – who want to take up the occupation of the soldier, so it should provide guidance. It can't be that we persuade someone to take a job, and can't say what it is when this person is 45 years old. That will be a great task for us. I would also like to express my thanks to those two groups that do not go along today, the BZÖ and the Greens. The culture of discussion in the committees, in the discussions, was excellent, the objections were partly naturally in line with the respective view, but the difference to the doctrine in 2001 was that this time suggestions from the coalition parties, enriched by contributions from the opposition, remained at the end even though two parties did not go along. We also discussed safety doctrine in 2001 for a year and a half, put forward good proposals, but when it finally came to no common agreement, everything that the others brought in was removed. That did not happen this time, but the things that were accepted remain inside. This also makes me optimistic for the future. Mr Scheibner, of course we could have negotiated for a year and a half. We would probably have met somewhere if one had found a formulation for neutrality. But we need a strategy now. It's changed a lot. For the future, however, we should remember that we do not always have to reinvent the wheel. We can find out about the present, improve it, delete it, or write it to you. [[Admissibility with SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Then, of course, we have much more time in the future for content discussions to change those points that are important to us, and that which is apparently no longer necessary. I think that is a basic knowledge from the last negotiations. Now to the political groups who agree: The Stronach team is there for my pleasant surprise today, even if it doesn't seem to be a big throw for you. But it's right for me to get a broad support. The liberals and Mr Fichtenbauer have already been thanked, but I also thank you for the good cooperation I have in my view. But I would also like to thank Ossi Slickovits for the nice words he has found for me and for the work. But what's far more important to us, ladies and gentlemen: If we keep the promise that we give each other again and again, to keep the defense out of the political hack, then we are also able to do something that we can carry together! But together we must ensure that we can afford to do the same. That is why we have to define – we have now done so – what is to be expected from the army in the future and what our mission is. Then we will have to evaluate whether we are able to do that with what we allocate to resources, or whether we need to consider the ominous one percent of GDP. We must ensure that the orders we award can also be fulfilled. The soldiers who work abroad, domestically, in the use of disasters are doing their work with Bravour. If the voices get loud again, they just sit there and do nothing, we should not forget that we are responsible to employ them. If we do not set aside funds for overtime, for military exercises and such things, we cannot expect work either. On the other hand, they are not able to break the bead from the fence so that the importance is underlined. That is why we should really go ahead with the best example. I think a three-quarters majority security strategy can be seen, but it is capable of expanding to 100 percent. It remains to me, after it is my last speech in this house, to say only: Live the Austrian federal army, live the Republic of Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11471	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11492	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Stefan Prehauser, including everything from me, thank you very much, very much for your cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, if you rethink a security strategy, it is of course about questions such as: How was the situation so far? How does the current situation look? What could we expect in the future? – This is once the basic analysis, which should serve as a basis for setting up a strategy and looking at what resources are available to us both in the structures and financially, so that we can really work towards the future. I think that this basic paper is not only a theoretically good approach to trying to secure this country, to think and to document it, but above all that it is a very practical basic work to align precisely the work and structures of the various institutions in that country. The question is so complex and comprehensive that all the important institutions in the country really need to be linked and all departments must be integrated so that this work can be continued successfully. The threat scenarios and the related questions are quite different at the moment and also in the future than they were a few years ago. It is also important to stress that this Austrian security strategy is an extensive work, with regard to both internal and external security, but also with regard to both civil and military security aspects. In the last few days and weeks before the vote, the decision of the people of this country was also important. Yes, to stand up for the military duty. Mr Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is also very important to stress that, and this is also enshrined in the Constitution, we have made it our task to do all the tasks ahead of us, including security and military responsibility, to solve independently in the future and only then to resort to someone else. But that means to us and the Austrian federal army that we also have to be able to deal with these tasks in the future. That is to say, the arms pits that are necessary for these tasks must also exist in the future. There must be no sale or sale of these weapons. I think we should agree. Since the threat scenarios have changed in the past, we know that they will, of course, change in the future – and I claim that some things might be faster than we can imagine, or perhaps even faster than they did in the past. This security strategy is currently a good basis, it is up-to-date. Mr Hagen, I would therefore not speak of her being outdated. is, but it is quite logical that we need to work on it again from now on and develop it further. This is not even done, and then you don't have to do anything in the next ten years – even if you're talking about a decade here – but you just have to develop the current state of affairs, react to changes. I think that's a good foundation. We should really agree to this on a broad basis and vote accordingly. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11550	The next speaker was Mr Podgorschek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11571	Mr President. Federal Minister! The creation of this new security strategy has taken several months. At the end of the day, it was very strongly influenced by the discussion of the two government parties on the maintenance of the military obligation. Then, after the referendum had brought a clear vote, a new dynamic came in again. Above all, the resignation of Federal Minister Darabos has brought the discussion to a close. We find ourselves in a number of points again, because we just believe – and there, of course, we differ very massively from the BZÖ – that NATO is not an option. The recent events relating to the hearing and the NSA show the problem. [[Abg. Scheibner: This has nothing to do with NATO! That's exactly the opposite!]] Well, NATO is dominated by the USA! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Dear Herbert Scheibner, you know very well that NATO is nothing but the extended arm of the Americans – nothing else! What we are experiencing here is again that, at the end of the day, the Americans are only exercising their influence and power. This is why NATO is not an option for us, even though we also see aspects of external policy which, from our point of view, are quite relevant to the EU or EU. From our point of view, Potemkinian villages are being built because of the last At the end of the day, there is nothing else behind this entire EU defence than NATO. But we take note of this. However, it is then to be seen positive aspects that have been incorporated, such as, for example, the clear commitment to military service or neutrality. It is also clear from the distractions that there will not be a combination of the Ministry of Interior and Defence into a kind of security ministry for the future, because such a too strong ministry could arise, which we consider to be a very dangerous one. However, I would also like to make one more point, Mr Federal Minister. My former colleague, Mr Fichtenbauer, has tabled an application for a report by the Austrian Federal Army. You then informed us in the committee that we will receive a White Paper on the state of the federal army in August. I therefore expect, on behalf of my group, that this White Paper really reflects the actual state of the Austrian federal army and does not represent a brochure of beauty. I think we should face the truth. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, because you have praised my colleagues Fichtenbauer: I can tell you one thing: As a former military officer, I'm used to having handshake quality, and I know what that means. Finally, I have also been socialized in the way that an officer's honor applies. Therefore, I also believe that it is really important for the future, too, that the German army should not be the ball of daily politics; and there we are quite ready to work together. I can only say one thing to you: You now have the first opportunity to prove your handshake quality, namely by making clear to your party the allegations I have made this morning – I do not know if you have already heard that – because we believe that the German army should not be playing ball of party politics.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11624	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11645	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With some speeches, I have already had the impression that there has been a lot of discussion here about what might be interesting in this world, but hardly anyone has really been concerned about the present security strategy. But since during this discussion the head of the new General Staff is also present and listens – I think it is very important for the Austrian Federal Army to discuss what we are discussing today – I would of course like to take the opportunity to congratulate the new deputy of the Chief of General Staff – the new Chief of Staff I have already congratulated – on his appointment. He became General Manager a few days ago. Congratulations! Good luck! Good luck in the interest of the Austrian Federal Lord! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at this strategy or this paper – and some speaker has really responded to it – you can only say that it is adapted today. It is a clear determination for the Austrian federal army, which role it has in the overall security situation. - That's clear. I believe that we must all use our strength with each other to ensure that the Austrian Federal Army, as a federal army, as an independent organization, also has its future, its authority and, above all, a clearly defined task, and that, of course, in the context of all other tasks – I do not want to repeat this for time-consuming reasons – whether it is foreign operations, disaster protection or assistance services, that does not matter. The Austrian federal army or, in other words, the comrades of the Austrian federal army do great around the clock for the Austrians and beyond for many states in this world, and they do not deserve to talk about the German army as if they were talking about any hobby troops at football. I think we should call to mind: The Federal Army has been an important part since its foundation. It has always evolved, and now it has been necessary for the next December to adapt what the safety The Commission will be responsible for the implementation of the strategy. But it is important to make a clear commitment to our soldiers. They have the right to give them the appropriate framework conditions so that they can also provide the heavy service for our citizens and for our home country. Herbert Scheibner, I appreciate you and often listen to you, but if one comes out one by one and the other and calls on the colleague Pilz to make a policy, international, with all the states and say what we should do, even in Europe, then I must say: Just remember once back to a single passage! At the time, you were still in a party with the finance minister, but not even your own finance minister has listened to you and did what you wanted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Now we can produce and tell ourselves what the English are supposed to say, what the French are supposed to do, what the Germans are supposed to do up to the Americans. Please don't be angry with me! This security strategy is far too important for this country, far too important for the people in this country. Let's take her seriously! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] We can discuss everything else, what you want, but let's give this security strategy a chance! I should like to express my thanks to my colleague Fichtenbauer once again, for he has said it correctly or repeated it: Time for bilateral talks! Many discussions have taken place permanently, there have been good talks; and I would say that there has been a good outcome anyway. I invite you all in the interest of Austria: Voices It's easy!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11724	The next speaker was Mr Kößl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11746	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If we decide today on the new security strategy for Austria, then a discussion started two years ago has been concluded, which has already been discussed. I believe that today we have a very good concept at the table in which security for Austria has been well documented and presented in the coming years. I would like to say one thing in the direction of the Greens and the BZÖ: It is not true that considerations from these two parties would not have been included in this new security strategy; of course not everything, but some points have been taken into account. I therefore do not see why there should not be a unanimous decision in this security strategy today. The present paper sets out and presents the Austrian Federal Army's task area accordingly. I believe that it is right that we first define the tasks of the Austrian federal army and then approach the structures of the Austrian federal army in such a way that these tasks can also be fulfilled by the German army. This security strategy also clearly shows that internal and external security, but also civil and military security aspects are very closely linked. The tasks of comprehensive safety precautions are more diverse today than ever. Many challenges have to be rethinked. That is why it was also important to put this safety strategy on its feet. The boundaries between internal and external security have now become fluid. Instead of conventional attacks on our territory, new threats occur in the form of international terrorism, cyber-crime and regional crisis spots. Of course, an answer to these challenges is to be given. Just as in the positive sense our high quality of life can only be guaranteed through the interaction of many actors, so threats can have complex and far-reaching consequences in the negatives due to increasing political, religious, economic and social networking. That is why it is necessary for police and federal forces to work very closely together. It is only in this way that it is possible to provide as far as possible comprehensive security for the population. What I believe is also very important – and this has already been mentioned today – is that in future there will be the possibility for those present to choose in the position from four different directions in which direction their training should go. I think it is guaranteed with this possibility that in the future there will be less or no voids, that there will actually be an added value for each individual present servant and that it will no longer be said, it is a lost time, or that time was wasted. I am sure that it is a good draft to which everyone can agree and which represents an important added value for security in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11794	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Reported on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11815	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The Austrian Security Strategy has the title “Safety in a New Decade – Making Safety”. Especially in the context of a Europe where many countries are working for decades in the area of common peace on a permanent common future for European citizens, the close link between external, internal, civil and military security and their instruments is essential. It should be our goal not to grow together – as previous colleague Kößl meant, that the inner, executive should grow together with the military – but rather the precise coordination of the different tasks and their exact fulfilment. The integrated security, i.e. all areas of social regulatory processes, are to be integrated and have found their precipitation in this security strategy. Cooperation not only in the national field, but also in European, international, in a part-time cooperation, is also established and documented with international organisations. The comprehensive security provision, that is, all areas of national structure, from education policy to social policy to security policy and national defence, and interplay within a state and with international organisations and institutions are essential. The importance of Austria is defined here and is also considered as a requirement, which continues to be committed to the position that Austria has in the international structure, and to actively cooperate and design in order to widen the value of Austria. Protection and security for the Austrian population is the great basis and the great foundation, an important basis for the next decade in order to make security comprehensive. In this way, I would also like to thank Mr Stefan Prehauser, who has been able to make his contribution by means of his rest and care, repeatedly, even in very hot discussions with the other political groups, so that we can decide on an important document for the next decade; and also, as mentioned earlier, that the proposals of the other parties have not failed, but that these changes have remained within the meaning of a common process.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11867	Mrs Schittenhelm is speaking on behalf of the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11888	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you of the current events that we can experience, see, hear and read daily from the media: For example, the recently known unacceptable cyber attacks; the terrible images from Syria: Destructions in the country, expulsions of women, of families, dead, wounded, refugee; the consequences of Arab spring: Demonstrations, for days, tens of thousands of people in Cairo are going back to the streets, the army in Cairo is making an ultimatum; we have terrorist attacks almost daily in all places in the world, and now the fire-threatening domestic political situation in Turkey is added. These developments, ladies and gentlemen, show us very clearly that the security policy conditions of those in the second half of the 20th century are ==References====External links== No longer the East-West conflict or direct conventional threats determine security in Europe and thus also in Austria, but new risks, new areas of threat also affect the security situation in Europe and thus also in Austria. We are facing new and complex challenges today, and these are only connected, solidary and together in the age of globalisation. And we belong to this union and we also want to solve these problem areas together in Europe. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian security policy covers in the 21st century. All measures at national, European and international level in order to be able to actively participate in the design of security policy in order to protect the own population. High house! We must all be clear that, because of our geographical, cultural and political networking and our traditionally internationally recognized active foreign and security policy, there are special opportunities for cooperation and we also need to benefit from it. Austria is surrounded by stable democratic states, but at the same time we are geographically much closer to potential crisis regions than other EU Member States. In the 1970s, during the Cold War, the instrument of Austrian security policy was the comprehensive national defence, which is still enshrined in our federal constitution. Today, security policy is being made at national level within the framework of the concept of comprehensive security provision, in short called UPS; and integrated element of national comprehensive security provision is Austrian defence policy. With this strategy paper available to us, we should, of course, be able – we know that it must be subject to an ongoing evaluation – to be very well equipped in the sense of a broad security of Austria. I only take a few points out of the strategy paper here. In the sense of this security strategy, an independent military defence is an essential prerequisite for the protection of sovereignty and integrity. Similarly, airspace sovereignty and airspace surveillance as well as airspace support for domestic tasks must be ensured. In the same way, the protection of military facilities from cyber threats must be ensured accordingly, and this must also be found in the general government cyber concept. Of course, as in the past, the German army must be able to handle assistance tasks – we have seen this again in the flood use – in the various areas as well. And as in the past, ladies and gentlemen, the German army will and must make its contribution to foreign operations in a proven way. In short, this security strategy can be described as a consistent further development of the Security and Defence Doctrine adopted in December 2001. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we will be measured in the implementation of this security strategy, and we will master it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e11946	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Defence to take note of this report III-218 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this notice. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on a new Austrian security strategy, which is attached to the Committee's report 2524. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this. – This is also accepted by a majority. (E 313.) [[14:21:47]] 6. Point Report of the National Defence Committee on the Government Template (2200 d.a._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the Wehrgesetz 2001, the Heeresdisciplinary Act 2002, the Heeresweisegesetz 2001, the Auslandsbeittgesetz 2001, the Military Power Act, the Locking Area Act 2002, the Ammunitionslagergesetz 2003, the Military Austreitungsgesetz 2002 as well as the Force Residence Act (Government Jurisdictions-Adaptation- law – Federal Ministry of State Defense and Sport – VwGANpG-BMLVS) (2523 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12010	We're coming to 6. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Lueger has spoken. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12046	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Administrative Jurisdiction Novelle 2012 requires a corresponding adjustment in the entire Austrian legal system, both at the federal and at the national level, and thus also in the Wehrrecht. The main focus of the draft unanimously adopted by the National Defence Committee shall be on the abolition of the administrative procedure, while largely maintaining the regulated enforcement practice, in particular in the field of military disciplinary law. This is in full compliance with the provisions of the Resolution of 15 December 1990. In May 2012, the Federal Government was invited to ensure that the commandant procedure was maintained as widely as possible in military disciplinary law. In all other defence proceedings, such as those relating to decision-making decisions and orders for convocation, the principle of exclusion of the suspensive effect of complaints to the Federal Administrative Court is intended to meet military requirements with adaptation from 1. In January 2014, account was taken of. The further changes to the Wehrreidungen are designed to address identified detailed problems in the implementation practice in order to prevent a future rise in appeal proceedings. However, this is also happening at the same time – that is very, very important to me – while maintaining the individual legal protection. I would also like to make another amendment tabled by Mr Prehauser and Mr Slickovits. The request was distributed to my knowledge, so I will only explain it in the basics: On the one hand, it is about the standardised balance of competence and on the other hand, as a second point, about a broad information activity by so-called information officers at schools, at educational institutions in general. A third point: People who had previously undergone a fitness test in the context of the position were only able to borrow the garment, so they were equipped with clothing that they had to return. However, this leads to a very high administrative burden. Therefore, one has decided to let the clothes pass into property. It is also a matter of optimising the military service by providing military sports facilities for individual leisure activities of the claimants. I therefore believe that this proposal is a very useful and good supplement, and therefore I would also like to ask for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12093	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure whether its length has already been distributed. It has been sufficiently explained and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12293	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12314	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the beginning of my speech on the amendment tabled by my colleague, I would like to put forward a motion for a resolution on the implementation of the legislative measures relating to military reform, which has also been accepted by everyone. The Members who have been signed put forward the following motion for a resolution: The Federal Minister for Defence and Sport is invited to examine, as far as possible, the legislative measures still open in the report on the reform of the military service and to forward to the National Council either an appropriate government template for their implementation or to report by the end of 2014 at the latest on the reasons for which the implementation of the mentioned legislative measures was not possible. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution is therefore important so that it is once again noted that the reform measures already started on military duty are actually being implemented completely and, therefore, Mr Federal Minister, you are now called upon, with the new representatives of the Austrian federal army, to make the promise we made politically on 20 June. The first step of a major federal reform has been taken by January of this year, namely to resolve the obligation to reform the military system. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as one who has always stood up for the maintenance of the military duty, allow me to say that I am glad that our coalition partner has now turned around and is now speaking again of the military duty. We have seen in the recent past, in the case of floods in Austria, how important it is that the measures that are redefined in the context of military service should also be taken accordingly. I now also expect, ladies and gentlemen, and that is very, very crucial for us, for example, in the Federal Army. the profile F2 is no longer attached to the original doctrine of the professional army and that this sub-strategy is also given its form according to the new aspects of the current political requirement by Parliament. Federal Minister! I hope that in the orders of the new section heads you made yesterday, not – let us say so – the political motivation is in the foreground, but the technical ones. What I really think is a bit unfortunate, and therefore my scepticism, Mr Federal Minister, is that it is all about professional army advocates of purest water. Therefore, allow me to be a little more skeptical about implementation. However, since I am in principle an optimistic person and have already believed in the fact that this ÖVP reform paper, which we have introduced at the time, will also be implemented, I am still optimistic that we will create this joint work in the interests of our youth, in the interests of the Austrian Federal Government and the security of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12372	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12429	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12450	Mr President. Federal Minister! Yes, we will agree to this government proposal. Very soon: There are necessary changes and adaptations to various laws, army disciplinary law, army fee law and also adaptations to the service law novels 2011. Essentially for us – a previous speaker has already mentioned this – was the basic preservation of the commanding procedure, adapted to the new situation. This will continue to allow for simple, rapid and efficient procedures. We will vote in favour of both of them. I am an information officer myself and therefore I know the importance of this group of persons. Mr Slickovits, everything that ensures that in the future we find a reformed military duty, an attraction of military service, is of course supported by our group. Federal Minister Klug, the ball is with you; there is still enough to do. I say once again, the question is how much time you have left. But now you have the ball. He's on the run.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12484	Next speaker: Member of the list. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12505	Federal Minister! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The BZÖ will agree to all nine materials in the Wehrrecht, which are covered by this Novelle Administrative Jurisdiction, because this novelle will also clarify and allow for further adaptations. For example, the inclusion of present-day servants in a service relationship as a professional soldier is greatly facilitated. However, we are concerned about the changes in defence law. The commanding procedure is being re-regulated. The basic defence servant has the possibility to file a complaint with the Federal Administrative Court in the disciplinary proceedings following the opposition. In any case, the ground defense provider achieves a suspensive effect with a longer period of procedure guaranteed. Measures must be taken to keep the procedure as short as possible. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The debate also calls for a situation assessment of the state of the federal army. The general state of the Austrian federal army is a disaster. Federal Minister, the German army is at the level of the eighties. In this ruin, and above all the Social Democrats know, it has led your failed predecessor Darabos. With tolerance and strong cooperation from the ÖVP, savings packages have been continuously chained. The German army was broken by this failed federal government, practically starved. The barracks are no longer used. Tasks and services are reduced and necessary procurement is postponed. In just seven years of office, your predecessor has almost abolished the German army's willingness to work. Mr. Federal Minister, inspect the troop unregistered! Take a picture on site – and you will notice: The motivation of the soldiers is in the basement. Mario Kunasek has already said it: There are too many officers in international comparison. The cadre is partially frustrated and aged. 60 percent of the budget is so to speak consumed by staff costs. Staff structural reform is long overdue. The law of the service in force is blockading here. A staff structural reform, an ancient BZÖ requirement, is to be implemented immediately in order to raise the performance of the framework again. The BZÖ also calls for at least €200 million per year in addition to the national defence department to ensure that the order performance is carried out as long as possible. At the same time, the helicopter fleet must be upgraded for disaster operations similar to those in the last flood. The overcrowded sale of properties at any price must be stopped immediately. A resource destruction is happening at the Flyerhorst Nittner. The infrastructure of this barracks is in the best condition. Also the accommodations for recruits are worthy of human beings. That is why we demand the security of the service at the pilot horst Nittner in the previous form, until a later buyer needs the military facilities themselves. Federal Minister! We recommend that you make a local eyelet and look at this property. Then you will be guaranteed to decide that this barracks must continue to be used optimally. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, on the red and black reform, which is intended to make the German army and the military service more attractive. We support this reform only in approaches. Many problems and shortcomings in the German army have long been known and should have been eliminated without the poll. With this popular survey, the failed German government has burned at least €9 million of tax money in vain. Mr. Federal Minister Klug, the next problems with your desired concert for recruits are already pre-programmed. Since there is the option, the military specialization module will not be chosen by any conscriptors. This programme is aimed at training professional soldiers. It is the most difficult and not as attractive as the other modules. This is a massive threat to the breeding of cadres. We from the BZÖ state: Our demand for you – you have already received our programme for the second time today –: The federal army of the future needs more and more professional soldiers; the professionals in the army are immediately available and ready to use. This referendum confirms our program: The abolition of compulsory military service is a security gain for comprehensive national defence. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. New builder: such a fool!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Aren't you a little late on that?]] – It is!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12556	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12577	Mr President. Minister! This government template is the result of the 2012 Administrative Jurisdiction Novelle, which was adopted by 1. January 2014 will enter into force. It contains adaptations to all legal administrative provisions, adaptations, clarifications and legal improvements throughout the military sector and legislative accompanying measures. To date, the Stronach team has already given its assent to these necessary changes for the implementation of the 2012 Administrative Jurisdiction Novelle in other areas, and we will be happy to do so here. This is an administrative saving, a reasonable administrative saving and we are always in favour of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12608	For an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Smartly reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12629	Mr President. Estimated members of the National Council! Allow me to replicate very briefly. Since, in particular, Mr Lueger, but also Mr Maizovits, have set out the essential elements of the implementation of the Novelle Administrative Jurisdiction, I would rather spare this part. But let me also consider some aspect that has now been re-examined in connection with military service. Ladies and gentlemen! We have jointly presented a very comprehensive overall and final report to the public during that period, which we have also undertaken together. It's always been clear, and I've had this since 11. The package will be presented at the end of June of this year. The military service will be re-established and we will achieve in this context the goal I also made at the beginning of March, namely to achieve a classic Win-win situation, because on the one hand we have a new, attractive one of those 22,000 young guys who come to us each year. Making military service available so that they can take away something from the time they spend with us for their further life. The second part of this win-win situation is clearly that we will succeed in winning the best guys as a time soldier for the Austrian federal army. Ladies and gentlemen! If you once again reflect the core messages of the military service in this final report, we probably have a new training system here. Member of the list! There will be two mandatory base modules and based on them also choice modules. If that's what you want: Despite the obligation to do so, there will also be freedom of choice in the future, but it will always be against the background of the specific requirements and needs of the Austrian federal army. Yes, there is a paradigm change in this context, but it concerns another area, namely those which, in my opinion, are related to the popular survey on the 20th century. January in the debate has rightly been criticized, namely the relationship between function holder – soldiers and the field of use of our young guys. That is why I have clearly and clearly indicated that I consider that the current state – 60 percent of our young boys are used as system holders and only 40 percent in the military core area – should be reversed in view. That is, if you want to, the paradigm change. We will start the information about the Austrian federal army as early as possible, i.e. we are already advertised in schools for the Austrian federal army. And not least in my second position, or in my relative responsibility, I expressly draw attention to the fact that together we succeeded in strengthening the sport in the Austrian federal army, making it wider. This was also a wish of those 10,000 guys and recruits who actively participated in the basic military survey I had ordered, and it was also my concern to implement it accordingly. Whenever you don't want to hear it, I say it again: Yes, in the field of militia, we are in a difficult starting point. I believe that this House is aware of all the Members of this House, especially those who have dealt with the Austrian federal army more intensively in recent years. That is why I say quite clearly and clearly: Despite a difficult situation, we will make joint efforts to give a clear signal in the area of militia. Ladies and gentlemen! I know, of course, that the election campaign begins before the summer. But I would draw attention to the fact that with the military service, the two coalition parties have clearly succeeded in proving the strength of the coalition. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to end my remarks without briefly reflecting on the reference to the further staff decisions I have now made here. It may be an unusual procedure, Mr deputies, but I have in my house invited all those candidates who were clearly recommended to me by the assessment committee to a hearing, because I also want to give myself a personal impression of those personalities who want to take over leadership and leadership in the Austrian federal army. This may be an unusual process. Yes, I confess, it is time-consuming, but it was my concern because I wanted to get to know all the personalities directly. I've been trying since the 11th. But to hold many individual conversations, I couldn't hold everyone, I couldn't get to know everyone yet. But the hearings also offered, I can assure you, an excellent opportunity to get a deep, further insight into the Austrian federal army. And I can say at this point that those three section leaders, who were presented by me yesterday, have all the excellent qualities and will do an excellent job in the service of the Austrian Federal Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12690	The next speaker was Mr Stauber. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12712	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! High house! Thank you, Minister, for the clear words towards the German army. I think that after years of discussions, concrete steps will finally be taken. This is only to be welcomed in the sense of the Austrian federal army. Thank you, Minister, stay on this path! Today's decisions to be taken on the novelle of administrative jurisdiction have already been explained by the previous speakers to support them. The main objective is to adapt all defence procedural provisions to those of 1. Follow up the 2012 Administrative Jurisdiction Novelle in force. This is to be done under the ceiling of increasing the quality of the procedures of the first instance in the entire military law. This will also avoid an increase in the number of proceedings before the Federal Administrative Court, and individual legal protection should also be fully preserved. The main point of view of the debated law concerns the changes in the military disciplinary law – also a very important matter, especially the commandant procedure under the military disciplinary law should remain. This is to be done in accordance with the resolution of the National Council of 15 May. In May 2012, the commandant procedure was largely maintained, while maintaining simplicity and speed. Other major adaptations concern the streamlining of disciplinary procedures and the necessary adjustments. The other legislative amendments also concern the easier access of women to the militia. Finally, some adjustments are still being made in the Military Power Act, due to the practical experience and recent technical developments. Last but not least one more heart concern by me in the sense of the Austrian federal army: Please try, Minister, to maintain the barracks in our federal states in the future! They are important for our regional economy, but also for our local soldiers. – Thank you very much and very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12751	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Magistrate. Schönegger in word reported. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12772	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! If anyone stands up somewhere in Austria and declares loudly that an administrative reform is urgently necessary, he will receive the greatest possible general approval – for that reason alone, because everyone understands something else. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this sentence does not come from me, this sentence comes from the Austrian administrative judge Karl Brockhausen and is over 100 years old. In particular, the date of this sentence makes it very clear that the call for administrative reforms is at least as old as the stock of the Austrian administration itself. Ladies and gentlemen! We have taken a new path in the decades of debate on administrative reform, not as before, in the years before, we have chosen the way of the large, non-binding public exhibition venues, but we have taken very concrete reform steps with this administrative reform. We'll be 1st. January 2014 in Austria has a two-stage system of administrative jurisdiction. Over 120 authorities and special authorities are replaced by nine national administrative courts, a Federal Administrative Court and a Federal Finance Court. Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with this What we are debating now is adapting the entire Austrian military system to this new system of bi-levelity. The changes have already been mentioned by my previous speakers in substance. I would also like to draw attention to the adjustments which have also been made to the particularities of the military service, namely the replication of the so-called commandant procedure. There was a legal response to this real military service. Access schemes for women in the militia have also been adapted and should bring clear reliefs in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Together with these comprehensive changes, we are setting the next building block for the major administrative reform that I have already outlined. The fact that this can be done this way even 88 days before the National Council election is not a matter of course, and we are very pleased. It is, in fact, in the greatest possible consensus that all the opposition parties should also be unanimously established. This is a good signal and quite encouraging to Austrian parliamentarianism. Mr. Federal Minister, one last sentence of mine: You've defended your personnel decisions now, and that's perfectly right, no one has anything against objective personnel selection – on the contrary: That's something very important. But at times we should talk about the concept objectively and whether everyone was really invited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12824	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 2523. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prehauser, Mr Maij-Weggen, tabled a supplementary or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. Mr Prehauser, Mr Maij-Weggen, Mr Maij-Weggen, Mr Maij-Weggen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a supplementary or amendment concerning Articles 1 to 8. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give a sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall come to the third reading. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are also in third reading for this draft law. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Majovits, Mr Prehauser, Mr President-in-Office of the Council on the implementation of legislative measures in connection with the reform of the military service. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 314.) [[14:50:17]] 7. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 2360/A by Dr Sabine Oberhauser, MAS, Dr Erwin Rasinger, colleagues on a federal law amending the Psychologists Act (2572 d.b.) 8. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (2398, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the law on midwives and the law on child care (2553, e.g.) 9. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 2356/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on compulsory examination by a specialist in neck, nose and ear diseases and mandatory dental examination within the framework of the mother-child passport (2554 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12934	We now come to points 7 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Oberhauser spoke. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e12961	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the first time in this legislative period that Federal Minister Stöger dares to change or restructure a professional law, I say now. The question of the MAB law was also something we were able to conclude here after numerous e-mail traffic, which many Members, I believe, had, successfully and to the satisfaction of the professional groups. The same thing has now been done with the new law for psychologists after a very turbulent assessment phase and a very turbulent discussion process. Many of you have received e-mails in the course of the review with the concern that, as a result of the restructuring of professional law, the professional fields of the individual professional groups active in psychology, in the psychological and psychiatric field could be intervened. On the one hand, these were psychiatrists, but on the other hand psychotherapists, psychotherapists, who were concerned that we came into their professional fields with the restructuring of this law. We have really exploited the period of review, until the last second, to work on a restructuring, an amendment to this law. I would also like to thank, in this sense, the health care professionals and also the administrative officials. all the clubs here in the house for ensuring, I say so, that this request was made very shortly before the start of the committee and could be explained by us. This is not a matter of course. You could have reacted differently. I believe that a warm thank you, even in the sense of psychologists, is really appropriate here from our side! [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Dr. Grünewald.]] What does this law bring? – This law brings clarity to patients, something that should be meaning and purpose of all laws, namely that one should focus on the patient, the consumer. For the patient, it must be clear when a sign hangs on a ordination door, what he can expect in it, what this professional group can do, what this professional group is willing to do. This, I believe, has succeeded in establishing the area of psychologists in the field of clinical but also in the field of health psychology. In this sense: a good start, a good end that this law will take here today. For a coming legislative period, we are the psychotherapists, I believe, in the word, and it is also urgently necessary that we re-adapt the law for psychotherapists and adapt it to the circumstances of today. In this sense: a good law, which hopefully will find a good conclusion here today!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e13016	The next speaker was Mr Rasinger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e13037	Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! The Psychologists Act is a medal with two sides. What do we need this whole thing for?, someone could ask. – It's very easy: We have a dramatic rise in mental diseases in the Western world – dramatic! According to WHO, mental diseases will be in third place over the next ten years. In all mouths, for example, burn-out, where I have to stress with burn-out, in full expression it is a severe depression that can go down to suicide thoughts, but it is not only professional but mostly professional and private. Secondly, 20 percent of the population sometime have a treatmentable mental disorder, especially anxiety, or depression; and if I were to count 183 Members here, according to statistics 6 percent have depression, so ten of my dear colleagues here are probably currently depressed. - I don't know who, hopefully nobody. This is the statistics. This is the one side of the medal. That is, we have an enormous increase, on the other hand, we need therapists, doctors who can treat this and especially recognize it. That means we need quality. Of course, a law that was made 25 years ago deserves to be re-started sometime. When I see what is currently being set up at private university, where psychotherapy is offered, psychology is offered, I need a state bar that I have to jump over, and the bar is simply and simple quality. I'm telling you a personal case, what is it about in concrete terms? – Last year, a few days before Christmas, I had a completely excited 17-year-old automechanic apprentice with me in the ordination. I expressly stress that I'm not a therapist, I'm just a practical doctor, but I also treat people who believe they're mentally ill. Five days before Christmas, completely panic, with a sleep disorder, the Bub comes to me and says that he can no longer concentrate on being worthless, and he wants to get out of the job; he's in a deep hole and think about doing something. Now try, even in well-kept Vienna, to get a psychiatrist five days before Christmas! Try to find in Vienna a psychotherapist who arranges at cash cost and so on! Under 14 days, even in efforts, there is nothing to be achieved. All right, little Dr. Rasinger does something with his modest little means. I ordered him to sleep, something to relax, an antidepressant, ordered him back the next day, gave him a lot of attention, tried to find out what the cause was. The cause was relatively simple: A colleague constantly held him in the job said: You're not capable, and that's what's solidified so that he really believed it and just panicked. Long speech short sense: After 14 days the Bub was out of the crisis, we also talked to the parents and the employer, and he later passed the apprenticeship exam super. So that was a modest intervention. If such an intervention does not take place if it does not come into any form of care, you can imagine what is going to happen. Already Professor Strotzka, the great psychoanalyst, said: The essential thing is that you have a good priest, a good barkeeper, a good friend, so someone who listens to you and turns to you. And that's why it bothered me, within the framework of the law, that professional groups who have actually been called to speak do not talk, but act immediately with demos and with mail actions. – No one has talked to me, and I am very happy, I would say. [[Congratulations as well as calls at the ÖVP:We know!]] I don't think you do anything good if you humiliate another and say, You don't treat or your treatment is worth less than the others. I think we should leave that. We were only carried by the law to improve quality, and that is urgently necessary. As Mrs Oberhauser has already said, I believe that, after 25 years, we must also re-run the psychotherapy law. The goal is relatively simple in the law: We want people with therapeutic help in this difficult world to do better in one case or another. It was not about evaluating anyone, but always about increasing quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e13077	I am now interrupting the negotiations on these items on the agenda, so that the required debate on a urgent question can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:17]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Ing. Robert Lugar, colleague at the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection concerning: Trade union blocked – economic loss (15326/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e13109	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 15326/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e13318	I give the floor to Mr Deputies Ing. Lugar is the first questioner to justify the request, according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e13340	Mr President. High house! [[Abg. Oillingers: Painful for you!]] I also find it quite strange that Mr. Hundstorfer should stay abroad today and provide an accompanying service for the Federal Chancellor, who seems to need an accompaniment to provide jobs in Germany because he was invited to talk about youth unemployment and about recipes that would be offered. [[Abg. Ollinger: He's apologizing!]] [[Calls for Greens and FPÖ.]] From my point of view, therefore, it is very strange if the Minister of Labour today is not comfortable to be here and prefers to be with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who will certainly need to hold his hands. He should be speaking to Parliament on a subject which is very, very important. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have a huge problem. We have many people who are potentially threatened by unemployment because of the problems we all know: Alpine, dayli, Niedermeyer and many others. There is a need for action in Austria. And now Mr Hundstorfer does not send us the Minister for Economic Affairs, whose presence in this respect would be far-reaching, no, the Minister of Health is coming. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Your work in honour, but it would have been more interesting if someone were to speak and answer about the economy or the Minister of Labour. I believe that the issue is important enough that this presence would also be appreciative of Parliament. We see how little Parliament is valued, and this is seen in the fact that Mr Hundstorfer is not here today. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Did you write this yourself?]] Now we should talk about the subject, namely: We are in international competition with countries such as China, South Korea, India and as they are all called. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Canada!]] - Also with Canada, right. – This is about making us fit for this competition. Mr Spindelegger said that he wanted to unleash the economy. – Now I wonder who tied up the economy. He was himself. And if he wants to unleash them now, I wonder why in a country in which Parliament and the government are supposed to have the reins in their hands, the union has so much power and influence, and so much influence that this power and influence can be very destructively spent. If we look at the past and now the events at dayli, then we see how destructive the union is doing here. The trade union immediately protected itself from the jobs of the Alpine people and set heaven and hell in motion to do something. That's all right, I think so. But what was at dayli? – At dayli it was exactly the other way round. That's exactly the other way round! In the end, the union has the potential to account for 3 000 unemployed, which we have to expect from the pleite. Mr. Katzian, you can write this on the flags. You can write on the flags that now probably 3,000 jobs are lost. And the big difference to the alpine is: At the Alpine, the labour force is most likely compensated again by the other companies, because the orders are there. In the construction industry it is always that way – when you use international comparisons, you can see that –: If one company argues, the other companies will suck up these jobs if there are enough orders. And that is the case in Austria. There is also an economic package which, from my point of view, is a little too late, but that is also a matter of providing enough orders. That means: Although we have to take care of the Alpine employees, we have to take care of them much less than the dayli employees. We know that there are huge problems in retail trade. These 3 000 jobs will be permanently lost, and that is what you are responsible for. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Maybe they can stay at MAGNA?- Oh, my God!]] You also have to be responsible for this from the union, as you – and there are a lot of evidence for that – have consciously torpeded the business model of dayli. [[Abg. Riepl: That wasn't a business model!]] All this for no reason, because the business model was – and there was an opinion – on solid legs, but because it didn't fit you and because you have too little power and influence in the retail sector, you wanted to let your muscles play here and have proved how much you are arrested in this blocking and preventing. Unfortunately, they have become a prevention club, and I feel very sorry for that. I'm a big friend of the union. [[Ironic cheerfulness with SPÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] This has always been misrepresented, I have nothing against the union. The trade union has had a very, very important function in the past. In the past, there have been the evil exploiters, the evil entrepreneurs who have exploited the workers, and between them – between employers and workers – the union was and has prevented or mitigated exactly that. That was important. The union has had great merits in the past, but this self-sustaining association, which it has become, is the problem I am attacking. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Finally, it's your self-happiness, with which you just wipe everything out of the table and push away anyone who's reaching your hand. Nothing else has been done by the Stronach team, including Frank Stronach, we have given you the hand, we have finally given you the hand to enable a co-operation between employers and employees, because that is exactly what we need. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We need to get together. You want class struggle, but you want to stir up one against the other, but that doesn't lead to anything. I also saw it at the Trade Union Congress, to which I was gratefully invited. That's where I saw it: in the end, class struggle from A to Z. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: (demonstrativ acclaiming) Yes, thank God!]] What's good if you praise now? I say ‘class struggle’, you praise! Faith You really think class struggle has some place in our modern society? – They live in the 1970s, class struggle has lost nothing here. We need to get together. Please understand! Please understand from the union, we need one another. At the ÖGB Congress, we saw that there was no one else. These videos you showed where the Mob from the street drives the entrepreneurs out of their towers, I wonder: Is that still up to date? I'm sorry, is that still up to date? [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Please understand: We need one another! That's not what's wrong with each other. This video you showed no. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: Who is the “Mob”? Who is the “Mob ”? – Workers are Mob?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – If you calm down, I'll tell those who didn't see this video about what it was all about. There were men, obviously as the video showed, in their glass palaces with suit and tie and below, people who tried in a very aggressive and fighting way to storm these towers. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: That's not true! Such a fool!]] This is a picture that would not have been coined even in the 1970s. Excuse me, we don't need that. We don't need a class struggle. Why the Greens are so excited now, I don't understand at all. What do you have of a class struggle? [[Abg. Ollinger: You are a class fighter!]] – We are a small island here, we are a very small bird on this planet. Do you believe that if we are running class struggle here, our economy will weaken, and that those who are supposed to live and work with each other will be able to stand against countries such as China, India, Brazil or South Korea? [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: This is a model for you? China as a model?]] You always say, Frank Stronach, Frank Stronach. – What's so bad about it? Frank has been involved in his staff for 40 years. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Employee participation is the model. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Frank Stronach never had a problem with the union either. He just always said he's the best trade union you can imagine – and that was the case. [[Abg. Riepl: Frank Stronach! Promise, don't hold!]] Frank Stronach has always lived this together. [[Abg. Riepl: That's not true!]] Why don't we do this? It does not even work in Parliament. There is no relationship between the parties either. There is not even a relationship between the government parties. I think this is a disease that has affected Austria, this one against each other. Does that have to be? [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I believe that it would be good for the trade union to accept new business models first and if it did not constantly endanger jobs with its unqualified proposals. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Can you put that into practice?]] For example: increase the minimum wage to € 1,500. Don't you understand that you are starved at entire industries in this country?- Oh, my God! You can't simply raise the minimum wage abruptly to €1500 and then don't believe that this doesn't move jobs, just abroad! I know you don't care. You don't see this so locally. For you, it doesn't matter if that happens in Austria. They don't care about jobs. It's important for you: Jobs around the world are just as beautiful as jobs in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Bangladesh!]] That's the big difference, too. You see this more globally, I see it more related to Austria. I say, of course, we need to support companies investing in the domestic sector. You don't care. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Schloss Reifnitz!]] If you invest companies abroad and create jobs there: A job is a job for a trade unionist. I can understand that. But then please say that! Tell it so that people out there also know that the union is thinking more widely. [[Abg. Riepl: What is a minimum wage in your eyes?]] But I wonder how we want to maintain our prosperity if you work like that. How do we want to keep jobs in Austria, if you don't care whether they are born in Austria or abroad? – No, the solution is to limit the union. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: What is the solution?]] That's the solution. [[Lively ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and greens.]] That's the solution! It is precisely because the union is playing as a shadow government in this country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I know the union's not to blame for everything. Look, I'm just taking the union as an example. The union is not responsible for everything, I am aware of it. [[Abg. Oil: Ah, yeah?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: Go!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Second example!]] Of course, the trade union has become a major anti-union and blockage association in this country. That's not a question. That's what almost everyone sees in the meantime. And there is also a survey that 80 percent of Austrians are not satisfied with the trade union. Isn't that what you're thinking? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] Well, that's clear! Mr. Katzian shakes his head. If 80 percent of Austrians do not think that the union is doing a good job, then Mr. Katzian thinks: Who cares? We'll do whatever we want anyway. But that's exactly the problem you brought here. This very problem has led us here today and has ultimately led to the fact that this country is only blocked and only walled and every improvement and change is suffocated immediately in the germ, as we have seen at dayli and as we see every day in the negotiations with the Teachers' Union. That's what we see every day. It is only prevented, blocked and walled. And then there was an ÖGB Congress, to which I was gratefully invited; I thank you again. And what was decided there? - A machine tax. Now you have to imagine: They have indeed called for a productivity levy there, knowing that it is precisely what the economy in this country is ruining in a sustainable way. That's it! How can we finally stand against countries such as China, South Korea, India, Brazil or, if we look at Europe, Poland and many others? How can we stand? – By productivity! That most likely tells you something: Productivity. And if you tax exactly this productivity, you do nothing else than dig the economy off the water. You know that, too. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You know that, Mr. Katzian. Just as you're coming here today, I know you know that. And you're doing it anyway. You do it anyway, because you don't care about it relatively. You're about your members you still have knocking on your shoulder and saying: Great, something's required again. But if that's good for the whole economy or not, don't think about it. This would not be so bad if you were a private economic association that does not have the power you have in that country. But you have the power. You have a huge power, you are a shadow government, you influence everything that happens here, every day, but are not ready for transparency. That's not you! And always when it comes to transparency, block it off. We've been asking again and again: What about your overcrowded pensions that you pay from the membership contributions? [[Abg. Dr. Oberhausen: Who's got overcrowded pensions? Where do you get this?]] Your staff will receive a special pension. There are specific provisions for which members must stand. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: That's not true, Mr. Lugar!]] What about the thousands of employees, many of whom earn more than €10,000 gross? Is that still up to date? [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: Who says that? That's lying! You're lying!]] [[Abg. Riepl: Who wrote this to you? That's a nonsense you're squeezing!]] Or: What about the strike fund? . They still owe us the answer to what happened to the alleged billions of money available as a strike fund. Where's the money? Who told you that? – – – [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: What's the matter with Ihna?]] That's something about the members! And I see myself here today as the voice of the speechless members who have to look at how they are misrepresented and, secondly, have no transparency where their money flows. And that's the point. We want to – stop it! [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: How do you get out of the Internet?]] Look, we need transparency at the ÖGB. That's for your benefit, too. What do you think you're losing so many members? What do you think? What do you think about why the members run away from you? Do you think they're so happy with you? Or do you think maybe because they feel – and this feeling does not deceive – that these contributions are not used as they would like to? Give this transparency! [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser:! Where's Frank Stronach with his money?]] Look if you always look at Frank Stronach: In no operation of Frank Stronach – and there were at least 300 worldwide – in any single company where there was no union, the employees were ever dissatisfied or called after the union. They could have done that. He never banned that. He has made a labour law constitution that has so strongly integrated employees into the company with employee participation, with full transparency rules, with everything a modern company should do today that they have never called after the union. And that's the point. And now I'm telling you something: Whoever doesn't go with time goes with time. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I'm telling you, too. If the trade union fails to finally give up this blockade policy, and does not stop interfering in things that they do not concern, it will become difficult. It should take care of the workers once. There's a lot of potential. I am not talking about the Alpine, but about dayli, for example, because there are 3,000 employees, you can get in. That's where you can make up for what you've been out there. In particular, you can do one thing – that is why I would really ask you to: You can apologize. You can apologise to those employees who are now losing their jobs because of their efforts. You can do that now. That would be a good thing for you, too, if you were to do that: apologise. Finally, you have these 3,000 employees on your conscience. I know it doesn't hurt you so much because they're not so strong in the union. Of course, the construction industry, historically, is closer to you. That's not a question. But this is also about jobs. This is about many women, including many single mothers. These are people who are particularly hard hit by unemployment. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It's not about construction workers who are going out of one company today and coming in to the next company tomorrow because the orders are there. The concept of dayli would also have revived the economy through a new concept of a close-up supplier. That's gone now. [[Abg. Riepl: Chaos recipe from the beginning!]] And that doesn't come back either. This means that these jobs are lost in the long term. You've taken this whole, completely consciously. I would like to speak to you today, which is also important from my point of view: The problem of union is not the main problem. I have only taken this today as an example of this blocking and barrier. We have already experienced this in Parliament when the ÖVP planned a total liberalization of wedding photography and was then turned off by its own party and by Mitterlehner, by the Minister for Economic Affairs. [[Abg. Peter Haubner: What? - That's a schmarr'n!]] The honourable Member, Mr Hörl, then came to the speaker's desk and said: If one liberalizes the wedding photographers, that’s a “liberization extremity. ” That's the same thing you turned it off again. And that's the point. And then, when a locker speaks of economic detachment, I wonder who tied her up, because when he speaks of a liberalisation in mini-liberalization, I really wonder if he understood the word “liberation”. I do not think that the trade union understood this word, because in the end a liberalized economy does not mean non-restriction, does not mean exploitation, but means one another! [[Abg. Oillinger: The defiance of the wedding photographers!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Every Austrian is to be a wedding photographer!]] And at dayli, 100 percent of employees agreed to this new concept – 100 percent! And the Works Council has also agreed. And the Works Council has distanced itself from the union and has adopted it – only to give you a sense of what the Works Council thinks of you and your approach at dayli. That's why: Think about it! Stop the blockade policy! Try to find good solutions here, new models, flexible models to boost the economy in order to “belt” them – Originalton Spindelegger. I think that's what we need. [[Abg. Oillinger: Untangle first!]] And above all, please: We need to get together in Parliament between the parties and less Hickhack. I think we owe it to people outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e13955	Mr Klubobmann Lugar, just to clarify – I am also willing to give you legal expertise –: Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer is properly apologised. And it was called the official representation of Alois Stöger today, the National Council, in the early days – I also announced that. That is why there is no other possibility than that Minister Stöger, representing the Minister for Social Affairs, will answer the urgent question. This does not concern all the possibilities and rules and provisions relating to the citation of ministers and ministers, but this legal question has been clarified quite clearly, and no other minister in the representation of Mr Hundstorfer could answer the questions here. – This is only for clarification because you have related it at the beginning of your speech. [[Abg. Ollinger: This is a beginner at Team Stronach!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Is there a Rules of Procedure? Then we could hand them over to him!]] [[Abg. Grosz: A golden edition, for the golden speech!]] – In all cases, he receives the legal expertise of the Parliamentary Directorate. That is what I am going to give to Mr Stöger to answer the question. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e14020	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and in front of the TV screens! [[Abg. Oillinger: Now nobody's watching!]] We have a very special situation today. [[Call the ÖVP:The highest shutdown rate!]] First: A neighbouring country of Austria invites the Austrian Federal Government, led by the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, to refer to the best practice model as regards labour market promotion and the prevention of youth unemployment. [[Abg. Grosz: (on State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer pointing) And for the Federal Chancellor, the State Secretary is on the way, or how is that?]] This is actually an award for all the people who live in Austria, namely that you represent best practice in Europe. And what does an opposition party do? – An opposition party makes a urgent request exactly that day. This is also a special feature in this house. I just want to say that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second: I am personally pleased, because I can say that with every cell of my body I stand for it, for this labour market policy as it operates the Austrian Federal Government, which has made it clear in the last five years that the labour market is the most important field, and through many measures has contributed to the security of people in Austria, that they can obtain income, and that labour market policy is the priority. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: With everyone?! - Ui! How many are these?]] [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Peter Haubner.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact that the Austrian Federal Government cannot be held responsible for all cases of wrong decisions by private undertakings, but nevertheless fights through liabilities and economic packages for every job. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Not for everyone, but for most!]] The fact is that in the last three years alone, for example, 7 000 new jobs have also been created in the construction sector, despite the international economic flute. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: How many new unemployed?]] From 2000 to 2006, for example, 17 000 jobs were lost in the construction sector. [[Abg. May. Stefan: By the State? Or?]] Not for nothing is Austria a show country. This has been achieved by massive measures by the Federal Government – I quote examples of this because not all can be mentioned in 20 minutes –: For example, between 2008 and 2013 BMVIT invested €700 million in rail infrastructure, €200 million in road projects. The BMUKK has provided EUR 957 million between 2008 and 2013 in the area of school construction – i.e. investment in new school construction, site expansion, school renovation. In these years, the Federal Ministry of State Defense has spent €507 million on construction and renovation measures, with a budget of €95 million this year alone. Within the framework of the care fund – where I am very proud that this has succeeded, where we ensure jobs, especially for women, and also relieve them – over €1 billion has been made available for the expansion of care services for the years 2011 to 2016. Since 2008, active labour market policy has invested around €1 billion annually. Today it is 1 billion 175 million €. This has led the OECD to describe Austria as the best-practice model, for example yesterday; the European Union has also done so. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say this quite clearly: I would like to address the questions raised by Mr Hundstorfer, and I would also like to try to answer them. Questions 1 and 2 concern the registration of health professions. This is on the agenda today, so we will still be able to discuss it. It is a clear commitment by the Austrian Federal Government – that is in the government programme of XXIV. legislative period – that the registration of health professions must be carried out by the over-company representation of interests. Who is the over-company representation of interests? – The legal over-company representation is the Chamber of Workers. And the Federal Chamber of Labour was also selected for this reason. Why? – Because this is the most cost-effective variant for the professionals concerned. Professionals have special opportunities for participation and participation in the new registration boards. And I would also like to point out that the urgent request makes a number of allegations that simply do not correspond to the truth. For example, the Constitutional Service did not express any concern about the proposal. Question 3: According to the credit protection association 1870, 1 400 companies have business relations with the Alpine. For technical reasons alone, but above all for data protection reasons, it would not be possible to look in detail at the financial situation of each of these companies. However, it has been clear that most of the Alpine suppliers are very solid companies and that these companies have also provided for them so that they do not have any problems due to failures. It cannot be ruled out that among these 1,400 establishments is one or another, who has particular concerns which may come to the risk of a follow-up insolvency and thus poses difficulties. We will and the Federal Government as a whole take care to see how follow-up insolvencies develop. They'll keep themselves in bounds. However, if this happens, the full support of the labour market service will be provided quickly and comprehensively. The early warning system of the AMS does not include exactly these questions of follow-up insolvency. It is important to me that this happens, which my colleague Rudi Hundstorfer has made very clear: He began early, immediately when the first problems arose, talking to the companies, tried to ensure with the partners that the construction sites were maintained, that the bankruptcy could be handled rationally and that work remained mainly at the construction sites. And I think that's very crucial. In parallel, the Austrian Federal Government has also adopted an economic package which, in a difficult situation, also contributes to strengthening and promoting the economy in Austria. Question 4: According to information from the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, Family and Youth, the guidelines for bridge credit are prepared to be launched soon. The aim is to promote operational funding for small and medium-sized enterprises in the sense of bridging financing to deflate the current economic situation. A total guarantee volume of € 50 million will be taken over. This will strengthen the liquidity of healthy companies. And I think that this is also an important task of the Federal Government and that we have done so immediately. Question 5: Immediately after the insolvency became known, Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer invited several meetings to solve the problem and helped to protect those affected by it. The insolvency payment fund ensures that wages and salaries are paid for. The payment and termination claims of the 4 905 employees of ALPINE Bau GmbH alone result in costs of € 72 million for the insolvency fund. Already on Monday, 24. July, has been set up a free service hotline for the Alpine employees. The AMS Landeswirtschaftsstelle also negotiate with the countries on the establishment of regional insolvency foundations, which allow for rapid and appropriate labour market support and qualification of workers, thus giving them the opportunity to re-enter their careers. In Vienna, for example, Alpine employees affected by unemployment now have the opportunity to enter the Vienna Regional Foundation – insolvency. These are measures that will actually help people. I have experienced this very often in person: Whoever acts quickly – and Rudi Hundstorfer has acted quickly – is particularly helpful to people. ==References== On July 30th, the AMS Early Warning is still taking hold of the 30-day notice of termination. And until 24. July the employees have the opportunity to explain the so-called legitimate withdrawal; some have already done so. On question 6: Negotiations on the acquisition are the task of the mass administrator and not the subject of execution. In view of the question, I have the impression that you, ladies and gentlemen, who are asking this question here, in particular, want us to call into question the free economy, which is so often conjured by the state, with state intervention and takeover. The upcoming work on the construction sites of the ALPINE construction must be continued. Contractors want to complete their construction projects. And according to the credit protection association and the mass manager, the corresponding construction sites will also be in operation in the next few days. If an ARGE exists, the ARGE Treaty ensures the continuation by other partners. What does a mass manager have to do? – He coordinates this process. There must be a takeover offer. It must be confirmed by the creditor committee and then by the court. And then a client can decide whether to hand over the new contract to the new contractor. The first three out of five federal packages, which were set up, have been approved by the insolvency court since Tuesday. Two more, the mass administrator wants to present it to the court today. The construction companies selected by the insolvency representative and confirmed by the court can now contact the former Alpine clients in order to take over these orders by the builders of the Alpine orders. I think that, according to the current state of play, with the currently at least legally approved packages, around 1,800 workers have the chance of continuing employment. And the two other packages, according to the first estimates, will add between 400 and 600 employees. This is where the jobs are already secured. The jobs are to be maintained – that is what the Minister of Labour is about, and he has done massive work for them. In view of the circumstances, the majority of the construction workers concerned will either be taken over directly or at least quickly find a job. And for the others, the insolvency funds, the measures of the labour market service are available. Question 7: It is also not an object of execution. I thank all the companies that were ready and also made a statement, besides the ÖBB, that they take over the 142 apprentices. In any case, these were the company Porr and the STRABAG. And I'm glad when other companies follow. Question 8: In view of the continuing international economic flaw, of course, the Austrian labour market is also under increased pressure, which is quite clear. Economic development in the euro area will remain below the zero line for the second year in a row in 2013. The Austrian economy, however, will be somewhat poor. It is the policy of the Federal Government that leads to our having a very special growth here. In order to keep Austria fit and to make a comprehensive programme for those areas affected by the economy, we have, in particular, put in place budget-saving measures that will bring additional orders to Austrian companies and businesses. This was the economic package, in which, among other things, urgent needs are to be created to increase flood protection, to prefer thermal rehabilitation measures, to provide childcare facilities, and to strengthen the use of the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises in their investments. All in all, the Austrian Federal Government will provide €1.6 billion for this comprehensive package in the next two years. And that saves jobs. Of course, it's about defending every job. And with this package and on the basis of the consistently expanded employment and labour market policies, a record budget of €175 billion will be available for labour market policies this year. On the question 9: Such a study is neither available to me nor to the BMASK. I should like to point out that many measures have already been taken in recent years to combat social fraud, starting – and this has been decided here – from measures to combat wage and social dumping by the Wage and Social dumping Fighting Act on the registration of workers before the start of work and the client liability in the construction until the increase of the number of auditors at the local health phone. There is also an interministerial working group between BMASK, BMJ and BMI. A result of this working group will be on the agenda tomorrow. I cordially invite you to agree to the abolition of the paper notification for legal persons and personal societies, which is an essential tool for organised fraud. Question 10: In principle, employee participations are to be welcomed if they achieve a recognizable advantage. I personally organised a number of employee participations, participated in the fact that they took place – I know what I am talking about – but in employee participations – and there are still such companies where there are employee participations, for example Austrian Shipyards AG – where it is important not to overwhelm the entrepreneurial risk to the workers, but to have a fair share in their work as well. But explain to me: In a hospital where employees work every day, where it is not a matter of achieving profits, how should they look for employee participation? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it must also be clear that employee participation cannot be the A and O of all measures. But where it is possible, we are willing to support it. And I can also tell you my personal experiences, including with the participation model of voestalpine, which is known. And there you can see that trade unions have just made positive, innovative contributions to this. On the question 11: The commercial permit whether a bookstore can also offer its customers coffee is not the subject of my execution. But I'm just telling you about the information: There is the possibility of small hospitality without proof of competence according to § 111 para. 2 of the Industrial Code. The Austrian Federal Government is always open to innovative business models and is delighted when there are creative companies that are one of the major drivers of our business location. And we will support everything in this direction, such as the Vienna lawyer from today’s edition of the “Falter”, who sells in Prater Espresso. So I think we will also support such innovative companies. Question 12: I have to express my amazement because the Stronach team seems to have not noticed any of the 13 novelles of the trade order decided in this legislative period in this House. Four of these 13 novels, which were decided in this room during this legislative period, have been four major novels. One of them is on the 24th. It was also agreed in the National Council on 4 April. This is a implementation of the 2012 government clause project with the focus on modernising industrial plant rights. Among other things, they included public viewing, where it is important that one can also set up canvases, for example in the case of takeover of operations, the possibility of making the notices for a plant so that one can plan the investments better than before, or for example, that plants covering several administrative areas are managed by that district administration authority where the largest part of the plant is located. You, ladies and gentlemen of the team, are obviously the following: Whoever has money makes the rules! – Fortunately, it is not in the Austrian rule of law. In our democratic country, the legislator precisely normises the interests of investment protection in the commercial system. This is the subject of the following: How's neighbors? Are the neighbors exposed to noise, dust, dirt, or can they still sleep quietly at night, which contributes to their health? The Federal Government is interested in a balance of interests between investment owners, workers and, of course, workers. On the question 13: The Austrian legal situation allows for a wealth of flexible working hours. In case of special work, for example, up to twelve hours a day and 60 hours a week can be worked. However, working time models which threaten the physical and mental health of workers are to be rejected. And this is particularly important to me, especially as Minister of Health, that we, as far as working hours are concerned, are dealing rationally with the power of people. And for this, works councils, trade unions, who are trying to protect the individual from over-divide. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to stress that I have nothing against New Self-Employees, any form of employment has its right, but these New Self-Employees must also have a protection, and it cannot be over-prejudiced. The local health phone is fighting this. And I expressly thank the workers' chambers as a member of the government. I would like to thank the ÖGB for being a guarantee for the enforcement of workers' rights for decades. In thousands of cases, he has also protected the workers. I have also pointed out that the wage and social dumping law has been adopted. And since it is also important that it is tested insularity. Question 14: Question 14 and also questions 15, 17, 18 and 19 do not concern the scope of the BMASK. But let me personally say a sentence: In this House, democracy was also abolished on those days when the trade unions were abolished. And I would ask you to see this connection, too. It is an essential element of democracy that we have opponents, independence. [[Abg. Grosz: Was that how the cast farmer threw out the trade unionists?]] [[Further call-ins]] And both the European Union and the OECD say that Austria's social partners are an essential element in that we have a better grip on the economy. Question 15: This is not a question of execution. I can only tell you that Rudi Hundstorfer contributes very clearly to the fact that the trade unions can fulfil their task. And he is convinced – as I am convinced – that every contribution a member of the ÖGB pays is well used there in the interests of the employees of the whole country Austria. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's easy to praise. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the question 16: If dayli is actually closed, the full labour market policy programme is available to workers. On the question 17: That is what I say quite clearly and clearly: No, no, no, On the question 18 – and I also speak from my own experience –: There is no additional board in the ÖBG. As with other 800 000 employees, there is no pension fund. The fact that there are differences in wage formations depends on the ÖGB concluding 450 different collective agreements each year, and this means that there are, of course, different service rights. And the ÖGB is trying to create the same conditions. Now I allow myself to point out the following: You said a minimum wage of 1,500 € you can't get in Austria. Something to think about. What would be the advantage of Austrian entrepreneurs if a minimum wage of €1500 was paid across Europe? What would the people who do not have €1500 at their disposal invest, what would they buy, how would they revive the economy if Europe gave all people the right to €1500 minimum wage? I expressly support this request because I believe that would revive the economy. And that's why workers' chambers are needed, so there is a need for trade unions, so there is a need for works councils working in this direction. On question 19: Without Chamber of Workers and without Trade Unions: For example, who would work for the affected workers in the Alpine? Who would then organize these 33 business meetings? Who would collect these 4 905 signatures to claim remuneration? Who would represent the interests of workers in court? – All of this is done by the workers of the Chamber of Labour, which is what the employees of the ÖGB do. I thank each individual/anyone who takes over this task and say thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the last question: We from the Austrian Federal Government have accepted the topic of microcredit, which supports individuals, and that is why we have also addressed this: from 1. In May 2010 in Vienna and Styria as a pilot project. In February 2011 this was extended to the Burgenland and Lower Austria, and since 2011, there has been this possibility throughout Austria. I can assure you that there are many ways to support creative business models. For example, since 2009, in my area of self-employed persons subject to the GSVG's compulsory insurance scheme, there is the possibility of being included in unemployment insurance; we have a small business support, in particular where female small businesses are encouraged, that if, for example, they do not have to pay SV contributions slightly during the maintenance of child care benefits. This regulation will be extended and improved tomorrow – you here in the House will have an opportunity to do so. In this sense, it is important to me to point out once again that Austrian trade unions in particular have awarded themselves that Austria is a best practice model with labour market policy and that Europe is looking at Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e14283	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Overall speaking time per group 25 minutes. Mrs Schenk has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e14310	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for the urgent question put by my colleague, Mr Lugar, and the reaction here in the House reminded me of a saying: “Comes up a genius, the stupid heads fraternize.” [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I'm glad that you're doing this to make you feel eclectic, but I have to tell you: If a group here, if here a clubman addresses something that is so to speak considered “sacred cow” in Austria, then is it not possible to talk about it and then comes criticism from all sides?- Oh, my God! I can also answer you with a saying: Whoever shouts out loud, he buys! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That this urgent request is important and correct and comes at the right time, we remember exactly when we look at the current unemployment figures and even if we look at, for example, an APA-Eilt report on dayli, KSV 1870: Dayli is preparing for bankruptcy, it is here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Again: This is just an example of the fact that this urgent request is important and correct and needs to be dealt with today, and needs to be adequately answered. Mr Stöger, Minister of State, has made a great deal of effort. I would also like to thank you for answering this urgent question. Now we also want to address a number of points. They say, for example, that the full labour market policy programme is available when dayli comes into bankruptcy. – The bankruptcy is now in the room, therefore: How does the model look? How does the labour market programme available to you, Mr Minister, look at what you have said? Mr Minister, you have also criticised that we would not have noticed that the trade regulation has been unraveled. – Mr Minister, we have been very well aware of this, we have also voted in favour, and I have also spoken about it, but I may also say to you: The location determines the position!, also in this case. Look You're looking at the stenographic protocols: Not all the political groups, like the government groups, have seen this fragility, this little mess, as an empty wound. For example, I recall Mr Themessl's comments from the FPÖ, who also strongly criticised the fact that there is still a lot to do there, and stressed that this one step has not been achieved. If you implement 1 percent of 100 percent and are satisfied with it, Minister, then this may be your opinion – mine and ours certainly not. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr. Federal Minister Stöger, you have finally mentioned in your reply to the urgent question how important the ÖGB is how important the Chamber of Labour is, et cetera, et cetera. I would now like to give them a brief quote from Hermann Haneder, who is the head of the AK of Lower Austria and who is also sitting as a staff representative on the Board of Supervisors of the Alpine, who has said he has seen problems in Alpine construction, but can't do anything about it; this hurts a works council. In the end, the Spanish Executive Board had the payments – extremely surprising! - set. It could not have been so “very surprising” if Haneder had been present at the Supervisory Board meetings. In addition, I would also like to address the ÖGB and bring here a quote from a lady who wrote a letter to the reader so that the criticism comes not only from us but from a member of the union. This writer has been a member of the ÖGB for 53 years, and she writes in this letter – I quote – in this letter: The trade unions have achieved a lot, but today we often feel that power is pushing out the original responsibilities, otherwise it would be impossible for a trade unionist and socialist, today's social minister, to allow pensions to be increased under the rate of inflation, which is de facto equivalent to a robbery of pensions. - Quote. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, you can also speak and give your speaking skills the best. In addition, this lady – I quote – writes: The trade unions are voting in the National Council for billions of contributions from tax funds that benefit the various EU rescue shields, but which are not intended to benefit people in the countries concerned, but only to clean up the banks. - Quote. It goes on and on. As far as dayli and the current situation are concerned, this lady – I quote – writes: I don't like the dual nature of these reigns. When it comes to trade, it is strongly advocated that the Sunday rest law be complied with, and above all, conjures the rights of the working mothers to the free Sunday, where children are also free from school. But how do women in the host sector, in the tourism sector, look like? – Sunday work has long been in progress and will be well tolerated by the trade unions; after all, tourism is essential to the state bag and therefore essential. Finally, this ÖGB member writes: If the ÖGB remains on the path on which it is now located, it is indeed indispensable. By the way: I am a member of the ÖGB in 53. Member year. Edeltraud Brandner, 6123 Terfens. - Quote. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of this, because you can see that your members do not agree with your policy, that not everything is in vain and that we are not wrong. It must be allowed and legitimate to criticize one thing. We are not talking about the abolition of trade unions, but they are to be changed in the current form, deraged and returned to the original starting point, namely for what they were originally for: for the protection of workers. They should protect them from exploitation and not personally enrich themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e14438	Mrs Oberhauser spoke in favour of an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, you know the rules. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e14462	Thank you, Madam President. – Mrs Schenk said: “Comes up a genius, the stupid heads fraternize.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I'm actually correcting: I can't see the genius in Mr. Lugar, but I'm sure we're not stupid heads here.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e14500	However, that was not an actual correction. [[Intervocations at SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mr Katzian is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e14531	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr. Genie! [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Mr. Lugner! I beg your pardon: Mr. Lugar! - The Sigi has hit. [[call to the FPÖ.]] – Do you want to know what class struggle is?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Grosz: I haven’t even spoken yet, the level has already reached that the Sau greys!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] A Spanish billionaire says that there is no more money for the Alpine, and lets thousands of colleagues jump over the blade. - That's class struggle! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A rear banker, who suffers from a lack of attention, Robert Lugar, stands here and says that the trade unions belong to the barriers; you have literally said that. [[Abg. Ing. Lugar: I mean that too!]] [[Call: The truth hurts]] - That's class struggle! A billionaire who does not pay any taxes in Austria and explains the world to others – this is class struggle! [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the Greens and the European Parliament, the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social ……]] And if you are producing and expressing your great concern about the jobs and are actually on the road as the mercenaries of a billionaire to weaken trade unions and workers' representation, then the class struggle is! [[Intercom calls with the Stronach team]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What you have done today – a classic abdominal stain of a urgent – is self-evident. “And daily the Murmeltier greets,” you might think, if you follow up your reports about the union movement over the last few weeks. I have already wondered why you are doing this, because of course you know the daily efforts we are making in the fight for the preservation of jobs and for the creation of measures for colleagues; you know that very well. And yet you don't stop your union bashing. It is likely that your group, if the Frank is there, has the appropriate attention because it is quota bearers; but if it is not there – which is the case now again – you somehow suffer especially from the fact that no one is interested in you and your friends. And that's why you think the best way to raise attention is to get into the trade unions. The medical term for this is ADHS, attention deficit syndrome. Let Mrs. Oberhauser or any other doctor explain this, then you will know what is actually behind it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] What you're doing, Mr. Lugar, what you're doing about the Stronach team is nothing but the following: In a particularly difficult time, where a lot of colleagues in the companies concerned are afraid and do not know how it goes on, you want to make cheap political change. That's self-evident, that's actually the true scandal you're doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In Europe, mass unemployment is threatened, the massive youth unemployment is already there – this is a consequence of the crisis. Saving Europe to death brings unemployment and misery, not only to the European trade unions, but also to the IMF, and it is perfectly clear that this policy cannot be continued. That is why I am very glad that in Austria another way has been chosen, which at least has led to unemployment being the lowest in Europe and that youth unemployment is not the same as in other countries. On the contrary: We also have the lowest level of youth unemployment in Europe, and this is also a merit of the Federal Government and of all those who have worked for it here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But of course the pressure in Europe is increasing. Growth is too low in order for unemployment to be reduced across the board, and it therefore needs growth-enhancing and supportive measures. A few weeks ago, we in this House expressed all our great concern about the development of youth unemployment in Europe, including you. Today, Social Minister Hundstorfer is on the road with other social ministers to discuss measures to combat youth unemployment in Europe. So he does what we ask him to do or what we asked him to do. And you do the Kasperl here and say he's not here and everything else is more important to him. – That’s really crazy! No one takes you away, no one believes that you are concerned about jobs and people. They are concerned with producing themselves, and nothing else at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] We have made an economic package and put in place many other measures. We've done short work programmes. Of course, Magna has also been very happy to use short work. – So don’t pretend to be the one with the Holy See and all the others standing by. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] This can and will not work like that. In the case of Alpine, one has clearly seen one thing: Let's be glad that we live in Austria! Let us be glad that we live in a country where, when such a case occurs, a big capitalist from Spain says: Let's jump it over the blade!, systems and structures give it to people and help them! This begins with the work foundations and continues in all the other areas that are becoming striking. So don't tell us a lavender! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the joint resolution has failed, but the Minister has already explained it and Beppo Muchitsch will explain to you in detail what we have done for colleagues. To the company dayli: I have already explained to you three times here in this House, on three different occasions, how things went. First: A business model that is supposed to work on the basis of a breach of law – that is not possible at all. Secondly, This Parliament has unanimously amended the rules of commerce. Although you voted against the amendment, you voted in favour at the end of the day because there is a common understanding that Sunday work and the exceptions, as they are now, are best regulated. Unfortunately, there is no solid business model. And it's not creative when I go to Udine with a million in the suitcase. Don't tell me any layers of any creative models that might hinder us! This is a Sermon, don't be angry with me! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] On the social plan, because you have also mentioned this: We have never looked forward to completing a social plan at dayli. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] If we had done this, it would be one that deserves that name. The social plan has concluded dayli's management with a works council that was obviously forced to leave the union, and this social plan is worse than what is in the law! – So don’t pretend you don’t know what it’s all about! You know very well, you really want to sell us an X for a U. The union is an association in Austria, and what really bothers you is that you can't talk there. You would like that very, very much. You want to speak with us, you want to help us, you might want to forbid us, then not once again – at least you would like to prescribe what we have to do. We are an association with 1.2 million members; there is a lot of discussion, there is contentment and dissatisfaction, but there is a living internal union democracy. You are not part of it, and therefore you will never have anything to say there, no matter what else you do; except you plan a coup, but I don't think so. And that is good, because that is the good news for workers today. [[I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]] It's very easy: We represent the interests of workers, you represent the interests of a billionaire. That's the difference, so we've been standing in your way for over 150 years. I can only guarantee you one thing: That will be the case in the next 150 years. [[Complementary of the Abg. Stutter.]] They were trade unionists who, using their lives, fought for this democracy, who also fought for the You can fry for 20 minutes such things as you did today. It was trade unionists who have enforced the freedom of the press and many other structures that we have today. We certainly don't let you and your consorts shoot this together. Billionaires can buy a lot, but not democracy. And if reactionaries like you say we belong to the garbage dumps of history, then I can only repeat: They belong to the garbage heaps of the present and the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e14716	Mr Katzian, we do not want to promote anyone on the waste heaps, at least not on the speaker's floor! I'll warn you. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Haubner. — (NL) Mr President, the next item is the report by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e14746	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A hard match between Stronach and trade union – I would like to return to this urgent question, because it is about the companies in Austria, and in this context now, of course, about the Alpine. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] We have heard it today – and I too am a hundred percent of this conviction: The insolvency of the Alpine is neither a debt of the economy nor of politics, nor is it a lack of quality of the employees or the result of missing orders, and it is certainly not the fault of the trade union – and I am certainly unwarranted as a trade union defender – but it was simply and gripping management errors the cause. Alpine has great errors in the It's past. The Spanish owners have pledged funds, they have not delivered them, and the dubious East transactions have done their utmost to ensure that it has come to this tragic super-GAU. Ladies and gentlemen, in the show “In the Center” on Sunday – one has to say: the former Alpine chief Schhefer said when he took over the Alpine had already been clinically dead. So let us in this respect leave the church in the village! Policy now has to do away with these mistakes, and it is also doing so: on the one hand, the Federal Government with measures, on the other hand, of course also the social partners – I think it is very important that the social partners exist – and on the other hand, of course, the countries, and there are the country leaders, especially those countries where the Alpines have their main tasks. I also know about my state of Salzburg, where we looked at Haslauer with the head of state that he was talking to the banks that AMS was talking to. It is a work foundation, with the banks now a banking summit is made that there are solutions for the companies that are still affected by it, the subcontractors, that the loans are not due. So we see together – employers, employee representatives, banks, countries and the federal government – that we will find a good solution. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One thing, I think, is really crucial: this togetherness, and there we have good measures in Austria that take this up. The insolvency fee fund shall be such a measure. It is fed by employers' contributions, and workers are then practically saved through the rounds in such cases of hardship. This is very important, that is living solidarity where employers do something for workers. So this is also a good example of how we need to see that we solve this together and not hit our heads here. Ladies and gentlemen! And at dayli, I have to say that quite honestly, I miss a business model. Mr Katzian has already mentioned it: Where's a business model? I didn't know anything about it either. Now, if you're trying to scandalize this, I have to say, There has been a fall in the number of investors, because there was no business model, and now one cannot blame politics and say that dayli is so practically insolvent because of politics. I think that active labour market policies, as we do in Austria, and active economic policies are the guarantees that we can also live in good relations here. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a difficult situation across Europe, we see it everywhere, even the insolvency statistics in Austria show it very clearly: Of course we have some bankruptcy and insolvency again this year; Thank God for 200 less than in the previous year. But this Super-GAU Alpine has of course added a huge sum in this area, and therefore, of course, the overall situation is worse. Ladies and gentlemen, the only thing I have to do with the trade union and the last trade union day concerns the tax package that came from the socialist union with which we wanted to burden the whole economy massively, with machine taxes, with taxes on overtime supplements et cetera, et cetera. I must say quite honestly that this is of course not a good thing if, in such difficult situations as we are now facing new burdens for entrepreneurs on the high tax rate, We already have something to do with it. That is what we are saying as an economic association and as an ÖVP quite clearly are saying no. We do not need new taxes in this country, but we need impulses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] We need impetus for the economy, because only when there is impetus for the economy and for entrepreneurs can we secure jobs and create new ones. I am already at the next point, and I believe that it is once again very crucial that the government has taken the right measures with the economic package in difficult times. We cannot do it any more as in 2008, where we have made debts for the economic package. We have now simply looked at measures in favour of doing something reasonable here, and that we are setting the necessary impulses so that we can bring the economy over this difficult time. Only if I look at the actions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs at the level of approximately € 650 million: This is a real and important impetus, creating 7 400 new jobs and securing tens of thousands of jobs. These are the measures we need. We are always better placed in Europe – that is what we can say – than the others, even though it is very difficult, but we must act together and we must not be divided. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: I believe that the government has first and foremost put in place the right measures with the economic package. Secondly, we will do everything we can to ensure that those workers who now have problems find work in the construction industry that through regional solutions – I have already mentioned – we find ways to capture them and employ them. I think that's right, because the orders are available, and they can take over the construction companies that are now making their contribution. I would also like to thank those entrepreneurs who are really committed to handling these orders that we can keep people in employment with this measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e14834	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e14855	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lugar, I don't know, are you the genius or Mr Stronach? That's what Mrs. Schenk left a little open. [[Abg. Donate: symbolically meant!]] - Illustrating! They're a symbolic genius, too. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Mr Lugar, I did not know exactly one thing in your speech: Did you actually talk about the Austrian trade union or about the Canadian trade union? That didn't come out completely in your speech. Maybe it was just a translation problem too; maybe have You also copied it from Belinda Stronach – I have no idea. In any case, the speech was in about the same confusion as the request in itself. Mr Lugar, you have already called for the abolition of the union, and your great party founder has then stated wordably in the media that it is not really right, he does not want to abolish it at all. So to speak, he withdrew this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] Come now They want to abolish or weaken the trade unions again today with this, and so to speak. You obviously don't know what you wrote in your request, I noticed it in your speech. Maybe it's also the time shift, maybe you haven't been able to call Frank Stronach in Canada yet, because there's still night and he might still be asleep. In any case, your request – and I tell you quite honestly – is very confusing. They're messing up a lot here. You obviously have no idea: There is no compulsory membership in the union – and Mr Stronach has not yet understood that – which is definitely not available. If a trade union member is not satisfied, it may leave at any time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] It is quite different at the Chamber of Labour, because there is very probably forced membership. By the way, you have brought in the MTD-Austria, which is to register with the Chamber of Labour today. But that doesn't fit with the dayli group and the Alpine at all. These are not just two pairs of shoes, that's something completely different – but nothing. I mean, maybe you can. You're going to re-educate, maybe the Freedom Academy can help you to know a bit about what's at all. I'm telling you quite honestly: The Austrian Trade Union Confederation is an association, and we stand for freedom of association in Austria, and every association, including the Trade Union Confederation, has a right to exist. [[In the case of the FPÖ, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Dolinschek]] Who determines, please, which club is allowed and which is not? Who's going to decide? You? Which club is the next one that can no longer be? So where does that end? What are the criteria for assessing this? Whether that fits into the concept of Mr Stronach or not? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Quite honestly, I think things happen that probably don't really understand you yourself. And if you read your question now, especially in the field of questions, then you're about what it's all about. For example, the Sunday opening: You criticize that dayli must go bankrupt now because you must not be open on Sunday. – This is the law in force! I cannot build a company on something that is not allowed at all in Austria, and then say, because it is not allowed now, the evils are blamed there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals clearly confess to the rest of the Sunday, because there must also be peace. [[Abg. Street: Family Day!]] I tell you quite honestly: There is also a decision here that you, I believe, have even contributed. [[Call the Stronach team.]] - Then you didn't carry him. Yes, you would like to buy furniture on Sunday. You have already complained in the committee about how tragic all this is that you can't buy your furniture on Sunday. – You could have done that on Saturday or Monday! [[Abg. Oils: With the son!]] - With the son on Sunday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] - Yeah, you're working. It's clear: They are the only person in this world who does not manage to buy his furniture during the week. I'm telling you quite honestly: The employees also have family. [[Consistency with FPÖ and SPÖ as well as with the Abg. Grosz.]] Therefore, I tell you, Sunday is also a holy day – not now in the sense of a religion, but it is a day of rest. And he also has to be there for the people, and for this we also stand, and to this be thanks to God most of this high house. That's what I've seen. There's also a second one you have to mention a little bit. The Lord Stronach always advertises with the involvement of the workers, as he calls it. You have to take part in it!, that's his keyword, and in doing so, he always tries to explain to people how great his model is and how great that is what the Magna Group has done here. [[Abg. Strache: There's a "toll": 14 € a year! 14 € Profit participation!]] Mr. Lugar, I have here a paper on the distribution for 2011, issued in November 2012 – that was the last thing employees have got: “In accordance with the information provided by Magna Automotive Holding AG, you have received so much information from Magna Automotive Holding AG until 31.12.2011,” and so you have the following values for your share package.” Thus, employee participation is carried out in shares of the company. “Your dividend income after all deductions EUR 13.0” – So this is the great employee participation. [[Congratulations and He-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Insanity! It's really social! Employee participation: 13 € per year!]] But it's still going on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] - Listen a little! Don't rain up like that! It's clear to me that you didn't know that because I don't think communication is so great. – It goes further: “At the request of Magna Automotive Holding AG, we confirm that your shares are deposited at UniCredit Bank Austria AG on a stock holding deposit of Magna Automotive Holding AG, which is on trust deposit employee stake.” That is, they get a stock that must be stored where it wants AG. So the employees can't even say what happens to the 13 €. – Continue in the text: “Your tax obligations are met with the retention and departure of Austrian Abroads-Kest as well as deduction of Canadian source tax. For any questions please contact your staff department.” [[Congratulations and He-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] So if this is the great employee participation, Mr. Lugar! With all due respect: That goes massively into pants! It's a pure campaign gag you're bringing here, and I'm wondering what to do. This is an increase in the number of workers! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that from someone who doesn't find it worth the effort to pay taxes here, in this Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Although he wants to be a great partner in Austrian politics, he really does not want to stay in Austria for most of the time of the year. Most of the time, he's somewhere just not to have to pay taxes here. [[Abg. Strache: A classic tax refugee who directs it! While everyone else..., he judges it!]] So this is not necessarily very exemplary. Health care, the social sector: all of this is paid by the tax revenue and social contributions of the entire Austrian population – only Mr Stronach, who is the only one who takes advantage of it. [[Abg. Rädler: Mr. Prinzhorn!]] But now a few words about the trade union, because you can of course also criticise the trade union, that is not at all a question. I am now going to the city of Vienna, and in so far as it is a pity that the Minister of Social Affairs, who knows the conditions in the city of Vienna as Vienna's top candidate, is not personally here today. In the city of Vienna, of course, it is already the case that a subtle pressure is being exerted on employees that, if they want to start with the city of Vienna, they should also become a member of the union. – We strongly reject that. That's abuse. There we are up to a certain degree of your opinion. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. May. Widmann.]] This should not happen – and not what has happened in various management sets. Of course, this is to be condemned, but in principle, Mr Lugar, the Trade Union Confederation is an association which is an employee's representative, and You do not harm me, especially at a globalized time, we need a strong employee representation. This is necessary as never before. I understand very well the attitude of Mr Stronach – who obviously wants to have some sugars for his corporations, instead, the employees get the 13 € shares; we are all aware of that – but we prefer to have a union that fights with them on the side of the workers without the abuses. They're depleted. Here we are with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15078	Mr Oellinger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15100	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! That's a pretty bad situation now. I am already grateful for the opinion of the FPÖ. But that was not always the case either: I can still remember the time at the beginning of the two-thousander years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck: That was another party!]] There was not the problem with the ÖGB, but with the chambers, as far as I can remember. But under the rule: Thank you for the opinion! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] It may be, Mr Lugar, that here in the house a few more geniuses can be – and we may also discover them – but one thing I can say with certainty: What you have provided here today, this request, including your complaint about the Minister of Social Affairs, was certainly not brilliant, but rather to generate – it is not related to genius. [[Abg. Riepl: Trivial!]] That was therefore to generate because, in the reasoning of your urgent request, you address essentially two events. They compare these with each other and see in both events – the bankruptcy of dayli, the upcoming bankruptcy – the trade unions must be said correctly, and the already occurring bankruptcy of the Alpines – responsible. Today, however, you have offered something completely different in your speech. You have actually not made the trade unions responsible at the Alpine, as in the request. You did that in your speech, because you obviously already thought that the union could not do anything about it. At dayli it is worth staying a little closer to it, first of all because there is a broad consensus here – it has already been pointed out – between the parties in which you may not be in the process that we, the parties here in the house – almost all if I take you out now – do not want to extend the Sunday opening. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] There's consensus. He's been there a long time between the parties, he's also been cared for. There are differences where there are then individual exceptions, but essentially, we all here believe that we do not need any more Sunday opening, but also a Sunday rest, as we have it, and as it is hopefully granted to many workers in this country, also thanks to social policy progress. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen]] [[It was in favour of Greens, SPÖ and FPÖ as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] Because we didn't always have Sunday rest. There were times in the 19th century. These are the class struggle times for you century, in which the entrepreneurs were still able to enforce the fact that every worker had to be available every day for every working time. We don't want these times back. And if that's a consensus in this house, I'd be very glad if you said something about this consensus, confess – or clearly reject it. Then we finally know what we're about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] One important point was the accusation made to you by Mr Katzian, and I think he is right. No matter what the reason for it is: What you have commanded, Mr Lugar – and I do not just want to say now that you have acted here as a voice pipe of Mr Stronach – is that class struggle from above. I give you a different example from what Mr Katzian has brought. There is the question 9: “Studies say the social fraud in Austria” – and here comes an important restriction – “without tax evasion is around one billion euros.” The Minister of Health has pointed out that he – including me – is not aware of a study that counts the social fraud by 1 billion. But it's supposed to be. However, I ask you: Why Adhesive You're evading the tax? [[Abg. Ing. Lugar:... worth 3 billion!]] You, me and all of us here in this House know that tax evasion is at least ten times, if not a multiple, of what is carried out in Austria on so-called social fraud by the lower, simple people. And why don't you, Mr Lugar, turn to tax evasion? – A simple explanation because your boss here in Austria is one of the practicing grandmasters of tax evasion! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Franz.]] [[Abg. Ing. Lugar makes the so-called windshield wiper movement.]] Yes, of course it is! Of course it is! There you can show the wiper as long and as often as you want: The good Mr Stronach prefers to pay his taxes in Canada because they are lower there. He pays his taxes in the tax canton train in Switzerland... – What do you want to say? [[Abg. Ing. Lugar: (in the direction of the Bureau) Can he say that tax-free?]] [[Abg. Ing. Lugar: Where are we? Can you tax-freely impose a criminal offence?]] [[Abg. Ing. Lugar is once again making the so-called windshield wiper movement.]] Yes, and you can clearly show me the wiper without tax?! – Yes, you would have imagined that! It may be in your world, but hopefully not here in the house – hopefully not here in the house! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Listen, Mr Lugar. Listen to me. Her boss pays, that's obvious, no taxes or little taxes in Austria, he prefers to pay taxes in the tax canton train in Switzerland, where we all know that the tax figures there are the cheapest of all Europe. [[Abg. Strache: He screws himself so to speak before his responsibility in Austria!]] Train is an invitation to tax evasion! [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Anyone who pays his taxes in Zug and wants to be considered Austrian here in Austria can rightly assume that he does so in order to collect taxes here in Austria. Yes, of course! Of course, Mr Lugar! And the higher the revenue, the more, of course, the tax evasion pays off by train. Here your Mr Stronach will pay the taxes if he wants to be Austrian and if he wants to be a candidate in Austria! [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ]] That is a completely legitimate requirement. And he should not choose a model where one wants to focus on Canada for half a year and to make politics for half a year after train and by the way in Austria, by telling the trade unions what to think and how to think and how to conduct their discussions with the companies or politics here in Austria. [[Call at the FPÖ:Deputy buys!]] I am sure that is not possible, Mr Lugar. [[Conjugation with greens and SPÖ as well as with the Abg. Bitch.]] I would like to say something to you to take the pressure out, too, because I almost think the Stronach team has too much importance in this discussion. You are not so important with your criticism and in the discussion with the trade unions! I believe that any of the parties, if we could talk reasonablely here – but this is very difficult with you or with your boss – that any of the parties, including social democracy, may have the most mildest impact there, their problems with the ÖGB, their criticism of the ÖGB. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer]] I got her, too. I am a trade unionist for decades, but I accuse the trade unions that they have paid too little attention to certain things. I also want to be able to talk about what happened in the past – well, of course! However, this debate is also being held in the trade unions, such as the BAWAG billions and the ÖGB strike funds. There we were fierce critics, but I didn't hear from you, nor from Mr Stronach – he was probably right there in Canada. But this debate is to be conducted. It is of course also the issue of whether women in the ÖGB, whether women in the trade union are actually represented according to their number, whether women are not under-represented in accordance with the low level of representation in the ÖGB and women sometimes lack their concerns. – Yes, this debate is to be conducted, and it must be conducted! Of course, the discussion about the way you indicated it, but actually did not represent much, about the registration of these health professions, which should now take place on the Chambers of Workers – we are talking about this at another item on the agenda. I think that this is a missed social partnership procedure, an exchange shop, in which the Chamber of Commerce has received the social enterprises – which are now subject to economic chamber redundancies, where everyone knows that this is not possible – and on the other hand, the Chamber of Labour is getting medical and technical professions with registration. If you do not want to repeat an obsolete social model of 20 years ago and to fail, you have to talk to those concerned beforehand! This is addressed to the trade unions. I think it is important that this debate is conducted in solidarity. I think it is important to say to the trade unions not only to trust that you can somehow falsify everything within the social partners, but also to talk to the other or poorly represented parts of society, which, in part, also want to enter the union! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] – Then we hope to take a few steps together.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15322	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15343	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Now, as it were, all the political groups have expressed their views. I am now the first of my group and can actually fully agree with the fact that this urgent question has gone well – with the only exception perhaps that rising unemployment is certainly a subject to be discussed, but with the rest, I think some things have gone wrong. But it is also characteristic when you know, when you know my colleague Lugar, that he has a very strong and pronounced egoism, that's what's going on. But you should always look at the things of two sides! I have always done that – no matter in any position, whether in the private sector as a works council or in other activities at that time – because you understand the situation more easily and have a better basis of conversation with your counterpart or can face it more easily. - That's one thing. The saying “whoever has the gold does the rule” is very much based on the dictatorship, and I never want it, and I hope it will not even bring you, Mr Lugar, this rule in your own body. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] In short, to the Trade Union Confederation: I recognize that a voluntary community of interests is self-employed The Austrian Trade Union Confederation, which is, so to speak, overparty, has its right and no one should demand its abolition, for otherwise every cultural association, every sports club could be abolished. So that's not the yellow from the egg, it doesn't make sense. But of course it is so – that was always my opinion – that you have to go in there and see that you also have a say there. Of course, the trade union is very red in the private sector, very black dominated by the officials – but that's just so in this area. And that everything isn't going right, we know it was in the past, too. That is why it was also true that German Chancellor Schüssel, at the time, strongly pushed the social partners out of the government as well as from Parliament, and, when the BAWAG scandal was, German Chancellor Gusenbauer managed it in the same way, which became a stumbling stone to him two years later, because he could not be sent to the desert immediately when he won the election. - That's what I'm talking about. The next topic: Sunday work, loading time. – Of course, there are people who have to work on Sunday, who have to work after evening. This is the case in the nursing sector, which is the case in the hospital sector. Various areas such as hospitality and tourism, but they only do a business when others are free. There must be an opportunity for someone to consume something and enjoy it somewhere. But the cake is always the same, and if I have a shop opening time from 0 to 24 o'clock, and the seven days a week, then the cake doesn't get bigger either, but it only spreads over these seven days by 24 hours. This is only divided for a longer period of time. In those areas where additional revenue can be achieved, such as through tourism, there are all possibilities in Austria on the regulatory basis. Every head of state can explain an area on the road to the tourist area, and there is open on Sunday, so that tourists can also shop. There's no need to change that, there's already. But now on the topic of employee participation. . Madam President of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has raised a debate with the German colleagues, an exchange of views on social policy, labour market policy and so on, and I have asked the question of what the German colleagues say about employee participation. A colleague from the CSU has said that this is maximum possible for listed companies, otherwise nowhere. I've had the same experience. We also had various employee participations. At the end of the year, it has been shown that we have been well-balanced, super-balanced, but in order to remain competitive, we need to buy new machines, and therefore, of course, a part has to be provided for this. This is not calculable for an employee. I am in favour, and the government programme, Mrs Oberhauser, also says this, profit and capital, yes, but that is a dangerous thing, I just say to you. So you can talk about one thing or another, that you involve employees, but only in addition to wages, and not in all areas. Now on unemployment, which should not be destroyed: We have the highest unemployment in Austria since the end of the war! [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] That's true once, and you have to work against it. It's now talking about dayli, 3,000 people are on the street. That's very unfortunate. It must be directed against, not just at dayli. If the dayli boss is looking for the excuse there that this is because of the Sunday opening, it's drawn to the hair. I'm sure that's not true. But there are others too. The laundry manufacturer Triumph reported 350 people, Niedermeyer 280, the Bank Austria wants to get rid of 800 people by 2016, the Bawag P.S.K. Also 500 to the end of the year, Swarovski 150, AT&S and not to forget the construction company Alpine. We already have a certain problem, and it cannot always be said that we are best placed in Europe, with the lowest unemployment, with the lowest youth unemployment. I say to you that the unemployment rate has increased by 22,172 people compared to the previous month of last year. That's 10.1 percent more. In addition, there are some 70 000, 72 158, who are in training. We have 242 242 unemployed. The interesting thing is that there is also increasing unemployment among academics. This is particularly worrying because they are highly trained people. That must be countered, ladies and gentlemen. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! The government programme 2008 to 2013 states that you want to create a modern and flexible labour law and achieve the elimination of this division of law. Please, set Finally, you're going to do this! You haven't done anything yet. We still have no regulation for the New Self-Employees, we have just heard again that there are differences between the volunteers who are in service in the payment of compensation. The employees are different from the workers, and so on. For this, Mr Katzian, we must work together.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15431	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15453	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that what happened to the Alpine is a disaster for the Austrian labour market. I think we all agree in that. But what we haven't talked about today: What about Alpine management? What about these ladies and gentlemen who have earned millions of euros – I believe the trade union will be right too – and who knew very well in 2012 that the Alpine is going down the stream? You were all involved, you all knew, also the union and the banks, ladies and gentlemen! As we have all heard, the banks made provisions in 2012 because they knew that the Alpine is soon no longer going on. Who informed the staff? Whoever has said to the housekeepers, who has said to the flood-offers who work at the alpine: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with your job it doesn't look good anymore!Unknown term type: "%s".? You have two offers now, Swietelsky, Alpine. Who's starting to work at the Alpine? We have hundreds of cases, black on white, of workers who have started at the Alpine and are now all unemployed. You all looked away. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Say it!]] You all looked away. The union knows exactly. One should have reached out to an early warning system and said clearly and clearly: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have a huge problem now! I am truly grateful for every job that has been created. I would also like to thank the trade union for acting so quickly and holding meetings within one day, quite clearly. But why has she not already said to the congregations in 2012: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we hope you all have a job, but we fear it will be over soon!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And what – and there you can intercede what you want – what about the subcontractors? The Alpine has worked with dumping prices. Let’s look at the construction sites, I’ve looked at them very carefully: Dumping prices with which the small construction worker, the small construction company of the country, has not been able to keep up with. They have had to release employees because the Alpine has offered at dumping prices at tax-paying costs – as we see now. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It has partially gone to 40 percent below the usual price. On the one hand, Mr. Muchich, I am grateful to you for saying that this is not a problem at all, the employees will find a job again. But we are in Europe, we look at the construction sites in Vienna – you have then revised your statement – we all know that all construction sites that have a larger volume need to be re-opened throughout Europe. That's quite clear, just: What's going on? – Yes, it is in the construction industry, I know it’s just that. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] But do you know what the problem is? The construction sites are now standing still for a year. It's going to be rewritten, it'll take six months. Where are people going to be, where are people to work now? We can't park them all at the ÖBB, just like the apprentices. I would really like you to consider something new here together, that you don't always look for the fault with someone else, but you say straight and clear: That's a mega-trash, what happened! The stock companies and the large construction companies that are directing them can offer at dumping prices, which is at the root of the entire economy. There are thousands of subcontractors who are family businesses, who now do not receive money, but cannot wait three or four months for the money. This is a scandal for the economy. I would simply wish that you didn't put this into a joke, but really find a solution together, that there is no longer any solution in the future. We all don't want any more such scandals. We just talked about it recently, we have thousands of people who do not have a job. Now hundreds lose their job again, you can restructure what you want. The recovery package, which you want to implement now, is good and right, but comes far too late. If you had decided half a year earlier, it would have taken hold of it now. But until the whole thing takes place, thousands of people don't have a job over the summer. That's why we have to do a lot better in the future, and I think that's what I'm going to do together – for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15508	Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15530	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I never thought Frank Stronach was going to lead me once. [[Cheerfulness at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] But so much between genius and madness, what has now happened – so my warm condolences to the “sect leader” Frank Stronach, he himself did not deserve it! [[Admissibility with SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Let me use “Frank’s World” – there is this book – perhaps a little bit of how Frank’s world is acting. When you look at a natural contribution in “Universum” or elsewhere, it usually begins with: The natural enemy – what I know – the seal is the killer whale. The natural enemy of Frank Stronach is strong unions. [[Abg. Ing. Lugar: A fool!]] - Oh, that's it? That's something new, but good. He says it's easy: There is a relationship between employers and employees. Together! I would have liked to know how you believe that this cooperation looks like when we look at what is already happening in the management area with strong, as you yourself say, to strong trade unions. That for a manager's salary a family has to work for 28 years, that it is the 49-fold of an employee – that is, the relationship between those who are employers and those who are employees. Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein has already done very well with her employee participation; she has shown the share part. There are still 50 percent who get theirs in the Sackerl. As we know from employees, “small” employees, at the end of the year the workmaster or the boss comes with a envelope in which it creates, and there are usually € 1 or € 2 in it. This is then the money that does not flow into the stock funds, taxed in Canada, but that the employee can take home as Christmas money. That's how the world of Frank Stronach looks. If you look at the staff charter of Magna, then there it stands, he offers them to compare whether what they deserve is what is deserved in the environment, and if it is too little, then you might be able to adjust it. – This is what Stronach understands by a strong cooperation between employers and employees. Just a short while ago, as Karl Ollinger said, not to give too much importance to Mr Stronach’s “spray doll club”: In the case of dayli, of the 3 300 employees, the majority are women. What you're doing now is trying to beat out the cheapest change due to the threat of unemployment due to a possible bankruptcy of a company by saying: It's the union! Mr Markowitz spoke very crediblely about the Alpine, the second topic in the urgent matter. Who's the Chairman of the Board of Directors there? – Isn’t this a colleague from the FPÖ, the former head of the cabinet of Gorbach? Who has carried the great responsibility as the manager of Alpine for these things? You might ask, Mr. Markowitz, if you want, just ask! You just need to go Google dayli, the World Wide Web is immeasurably informative. If Mr Haberleitner is to be Google, it is also found, among other things, that he has already employed the House in 2001, in relation to the question: How is Forstinger paid to Haberleitner? How does this work in the equity company he was involved in? There was a request from the Green Deputies Petrovic: Can someone sit in the Supervisory Board while at the same time working with a daily fee of 30,000 Schillings as a consultant to the same company? - That's a story. The second story can be found when you look at the “Economic Sheet. ” He has left great traces, most of which are traces that he has put business concepts on the table, which have always ended up with the fact that between his client and him there has been a huge dispute. There were several Upper Austrian companies who broke down his concepts so that the investors left and he was released overnight. The question to the then Minister Forstinger, what Mr Haberleitner has for qualifications, has been asked about the fact that an erased criminal register extract no longer needs to appear in the CV. It will be that way, but now trying to explain to people that trade unions are to blame when a obviously simply knitted man, who, as we have already heard, is driving to the hotel with a million in his suitcase and then says ups, it's gone, delivers a concept that makes Novomatic out of it – which is understood – that's not even genius, that's really crazy.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15588	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15610	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This legislative period now tends to end, and I must say that now is probably the deepest debate we have ever held here in this House, levelless – not of all, please, not of all –, partly levelless, so that one can only generate, and I believe that the citizens really generate for their people's representatives. [[Call FPÖ and Greens:Well!]] The urgent question raised by Mr Lugar today has already been raised by a number of previous speakers. I would just like to remind you once again, we have no speaker of the Stronach team today – of none! – any solution proposals for the Alpine bankruptcy or any other insolvency mentioned in this urgent request. At the beginning, Mr. Lugar spoke only around the hot brie and conjured to Minister Hundstorfer and probably knew that Minister Hundstorfer is abroad that he is presenting a success model in Germany, namely dual training, as a best-practice model. This is incomprehensible, and I believe that citizens at home cannot understand it at all in front of the television screens. What's going to be done? – It is done a lot by the Federal Government, it is also done a lot by the countries, by the national leaders, it is done a lot with reception companies. The Alpine workers are being taken up, construction projects are being continued, and efforts are being made to maintain jobs in a sustainable way. This is what we do, and this is what our heads of state of the state of Red and Black do, because we believe that the social partners are a success project in Austria. We want to get jobs together, we want to secure them, and we want to secure them in a sustainable way. We are, of course, – Mr Steindl will then go into this – also to make sure that the small and medium-sized enterprises, which have so far been the suppliers of the Alpine, do not come under the wheels. That's important to us, too. However, we do not need cheap polemics, Mr Lugar, and we do not need any bashing on the trade unions either. Of course, the Christian trade unions differ from the FSG, which is no question at all. But quite honestly, Mr Lugar, if the management fails at the Alpine, if Mr Haberleitner of dayli has already done more work with business concepts, then I do not know what guilt the union bears on the now threatening insolvency. I would now like to refer again to the issue of dayli. First of all: We have decided here in this House to open shops, we have decided to extend shop opening times. We have decided on tourism regulations which allow national leaders to choose where tourism zones are located, which is partly not used at all. I can't imagine that in the sense of business people in this country, in the sense of gastronomy companies – it's not easy to run a gastronomy business – it's that the company introduces the Sunday opening through the back door for itself just because it finds a loophole in the commercial order. Quite honestly, I can't understand that, and that Mr. Stronach and the Stronach team are for it, that's very remarkable for me. In fact, the law is being broken, something that is dreamed of, but which is not at all available in Austria, namely the opening of Sundays in commercial establishments. On the other hand, we are, on the other hand, acting. Finally, I would like to address what we have done here in the House at the initiative of many business representatives, but of course also workers' representatives in recent years, where we are very much at our disposal in times of crisis: Education part-time, educational leave; we provide assistance with the care fund where it is necessary; Caring for care, part-time care, all things that help people when they are in the work process and are still somehow in a family crisis. We've done a lot. For example, we have introduced the teaching with Matura, so that we further qualify people so that it doesn't even get so far that they lose the job. We give them a lot of opportunities. Sometimes you prefer to polemize, watered against the EU, watered against the government, watered against the powerful, even though Mr Stronach himself is a powerful person. At this point I would like to make a quote. You said today that the employees were very satisfied with Mr Stronach. I found on the Internet a quote from an information sheet of March 2012 from the painting company at Magna Steyr in Graz. On this leaflet – I quote – was: “On the one hand, they release people and unemployment increases – on the other, the rest are supposed to work more and more overtime. This is a naughtiness and does not use anyone anything – except ‘the people up there’. The rulers are getting richer and more powerful, treating us more and more than slaves." That's from the company MAGNA, and I think that's what Frank Stronach means. I am already excited about the tax act, then we will see if Mr Stronach pays income tax in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: We won't see much!]] I don't think it would be so important to him that he is abroad for more than 180 days.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15662	Mr Neubauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15683	Madam President. Mr. Minister! I quote: “We don’t need the trade unions, they block everything, they are destructive and they don’t make a state.” - Quote. Frank Stronach a day before the broadcast “In the Center”, ORF. Mr Lugar, if you are here today as if all of this had never been said, that is simply not right. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: No, that can't be!]] Mrs Oberhauser, I have followed your speech and I have to tell you that if you here understand Mr Arnold Schlefer, he has something to do with the disaster of the Alpine, because I have a responsibility, I may say to you: Mr Schiefer was brought to this company at the end of April to save what is still to be saved. He's been trying hard. And if the Spaniards had not finally turned to the money tap, then it would almost have succeeded in creating something that seemed impossible, namely to save the company. In this way, your submission was actually unfair and unreasonable, for Mr Schieser really tried. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] In the same way, it is unreasonable that, in this context, some of the parties have made a debt assignment to the trade unions, as some speakers have done here. I really reject that in connection with the Alpine. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing I would like to address, ladies and gentlemen: Since we have this question today with 20 questions, I have a fundamental question: There's a team of Stronach. This team costs Stronach the taxpayer from public funds due to the club situation over € 2 million. This Stronach team has caused numerous committees to be re-established in this House in order to reflect this new situation accordingly in the committees. There are committees in which the Stronach team has observer and advisor status, as well as the Committee which has recently spoken. But suddenly there was no delegate from the Stronach team who would have been able to come to this meeting. – The money will be collected, Mr Lugar, but you will not come to the meeting! That's unfair. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] This is not transparency. This does not correspond to the values, Mr Lugar, which you always demand for yourself in the public. [[In the case of FPÖ, SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Because one thing is clear: This issue, which we have been discussing for hours today, was discussed very transparently and openly at the last meeting of the Committee. And in rare openness, Mr. Hundstorfer has answered all the questions on dayli, all questions on the Alpine and on the related suppliers and all other related questions to the Committee, which is openly presented to the members of the Committee. In addition, the main negotiator, MP Muchich, later explained all the questions still open to the delegates, and that is why later, because he came out of the talks only after the negotiation. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would also like to thank Mr Muchitsch for his commitment as a trade unionist, who is really trying to create and maintain jobs for these people. Thank you very much on the part of the Freeman! [[In the case of FPÖ, SPÖ and BZÖ.]] And if I know that the people of the Stronach team do not take part in the meeting of the Committee, but then torture the Minister with 20 questions that have all been answered in committee, and then complain, knowing that the Minister is not here, then I have to say that this is a very special chuzpe. I can tell you that. [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] When it comes to the question of trade unions, I should like to stress once again, as a liberal, that, of course, we liberals are also acting in this country for the trade unions in Austria as well as as as grown social partners. That is why we do not think that there is any general need for a resolution or annihilation, because we need trade unions for strong workers' support. A plus of the trade unions is to be seen when it comes to maintaining jobs. But, of course, there are also minor points in the trade unions; my colleague Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein has already referred to them in the first place. If I compare now – Mr Muchitsch, that is my intention to you – Alpine and dayli, then I have to tell the media that the Alpine, because there is a trade union, is really trying to preserve jobs or to deal with the workers in order to obtain jobs. At dayli this seems not to be the case, since the union is or was in a dispute with dayli, because of the Sunday opening times. Therefore, the 3 300 people feel that they are not represented by the trade union to the extent that the Alpine is the case. I am therefore looking for you – workers are employees, whether they can now be trade unions, that is, the criterion, or not, that should not be a criterion for the trade union – to work in this area, that is, for dayli employees, too, trade unions, ladies and gentlemen. One thing I would also like to say clearly and clearly: If today we are always talking about the 3 300 workers who have quit, then I am against it! This is counterproductive, in discussions that are still taking place between new interested parties and the still working employees. You don't do anything good to these people if you already call them quit today, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In summary, therefore, I can say that in Austria there is currently a situation which has been very difficult in recent months, very threatening as far as the labour market as a whole is concerned. We have a high level of unemployment, even now in June, with an increase of more than 10 percent. Over 400 000 people are unemployed. And I would be really pleased if the trade union would also speak and say that at an opening of the Austrian labour market with 1. In January 2014, it is not possible to guarantee that these jobs in Austria, which are already very at risk, will not result in further terminations in Austria. I think this would be a valuable contribution from the trade union to be made here.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15781	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15802	Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is quite courageous that, today, in the curiousities and knowledge gaps that the Stronach team has given or has shown on the subject of trade unions in recent months, these essentials are still to be trusted. You can't count the highlights at all. There was the “sensational” proposal to merge the Chamber of Workers and trade unions. – You need to know that you cannot merge a voluntary and a legal representation of interests. [[Abg. Ing. Lugar: Of course you can!]] But Your problem is more fundamental: They believe that the Chamber of Labour is the voluntary representation of interests and the union the duty to represent. That's the problem of Frank Stronach and you're missing the most elementary things. One thing is obviously not clear to you either: Whoever is against free trade unions is against democracy. – It is. You can't disagree with that. [[It was in favour of Greens and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] 150 years ago, workers died for it, killed that they had organized themselves for their rights. That is a highly democratic question. And if you question that, you'll call democracy into question. [[It is in favour of the Greens and the SPÖ and FPÖ delegates.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You always say you wouldn't question the trade unions. But you just have to look at it quickly, and with Google you immediately have all the quotations by hand, everything that separates Deputies Lugar. ==References== May in the “Kronen Zeitung” – it’s not clear at all –: “We don’t need the trade unions.” What is this, if not a rejection of trade unions, a fundamental: We don't need them. Frank Stronach then corrected him and said that trade unions are important. And then he's shifted something that relativizes a lot, Mr. Lugar, what you give of yourself. He said: I'm setting the rules! This shows that you should not take everything seriously, what honourable Member Lugar says, and that the Stronach team might be able to learn something. They have learned something again today, namely that, before bringing in an emergency, one examines which ministers are apologised and represented. That's a beginner's mistake. I hope you're able to learn and learn something about it. The trade unions are a democratic association. If something bothers the trade unions, it can organize itself within the framework of a trade union group and influence the formation of will. But you don't care, that's too tiring for you. But I also fear that such an undertaking would be condemned to fail in you, because you hardly find any fellow competitors who go your way in the trade unions. Ladies and gentlemen! The trade unions – because they are trying to give the impression that the trade unions are guilty of the plethora of different companies; it is always suggested that it is wage policy and the like – a central function in our economy. If there are strong trade unions, then the economy is fine. For a very simple reason – you can also remember this –: Trade unions ensure that there are wage increases, and wage increases are the essential prerequisite for strengthening the purchasing power of an economy. If that is not given, the purchasing power leaves behind, and that weakens the economy. Mr Lugar, if productivity gains are not passed on to workers, if productivity gains are broken down by shareholders, if they are redistributed from bottom to top, then an economy loses purchasing power and then the financial system is destabilised. It's a natural law that you can't put out of power. But it is an absurd debate about dayli, in which a little bit is put into space here, that the trade union protest against the Sunday opening would be due to dayli’s pleading. – So I doubt in principle the management capabilities of a managing director who travels to Italy, takes 1 million euros in cash and clearly gives them out of hand there. Since the trade unions are to blame, it is not right. You could also think a little bit about the skills of this managing director. Second point: Dayli's business model is a violation of law. That's clear. There's nothing to understand, nothing at all. It was a violation of the law, and the trade unions, the Chamber of Workers, the works councils have the legal mandate to detect and follow them. This is a normal procedure for the trade unions to protest in this case. Then there was the danger that an attempt would be made to take advantage of a law gap. That is why Parliament's debate on Sunday's opening hours has been held here. And – surprise! – it was a unanimous legislative decision. What some colleagues have adopted before me is not true, namely that the Stronach team did not agree. I have the honour of sitting here two, three benches in front of the Stronach team, and I must say that I was surprised, because out here one has given quite a confusion of himself, was open in all directions – I have interpreted it so much that one is against this gap-closure – and then one is standing up and has voted in the back. The Stronach team has closed the gap at the Sunday opening. Obviously, you don't know exactly what you're doing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] It is also more or less important to us what you do as long as you are so few. I guess that won't change much. Yes, the unions have a central function: To negotiate wage increases, to detect illegalities, to enforce legal claims. That is why most workers are members of a trade union and are largely Modo satisfied with the work of the trade unions. I wish – I admit – sometimes military trade unions, that is necessary, and party-independent trade unions, that is also necessary. This discussion is to be conducted within the ÖGB and takes place daily. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15872	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15893	Mr President. High house! I will not be included in the series of those speakers who raise the unions to heaven. We need the trade unions, they have an important function, but I want one: As a parliamentarian, I would like to talk, discuss and discuss with them at the same level. It can't be that the trade unions dominate Parliament, and it can't be that trade unions are used as secret electoral locomotives on the one hand for SPÖ or on the other – with the teachers – for the ÖVP. That too can and must not be. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! If you're talking about wage increases, I have to say: The money you distribute must first be earned. And for that, the state must create the conditions. However, we find a government – fragments of this government are behind me on the government bank – which has done nothing in essential areas in this country in five years, neither in housing nor in education, nor in tax reduction, nor in the competition and cetera sectors. You failed. You didn't do anything. And we need to talk about that too. I'm tired of talking about the job situation almost unisono. It flows milk and honey in this country, I hear constantly. It's not like that. If you read the “format”, then you know that we have a veritable job crisis that in Austria a parade company can slide or slide into pleite – the Alpine as a flagship. There is a complete list – Mr Dolinschek has already read it out today – in “format”, which is not from the BZÖ: Niedermeyer: 790 employees lose job. Siemens: up to 1 000 employees. It was only last week that a colleague from Siemens told me that the union – I hope you are here – will only represent it if it is also a member. So if he doesn't pay the contribution, he's a second-class employee, and I'm condemning that. This is a free association, a private association, but I think the support should apply to all workers – if you already have such a strong presence. The list goes on: dayli: 340 people. Triumph: 350 people. Greiner: 100 people, and, and, and. Up to AT&S; Mr Androsch is just mentioned here. That means you have a real problem here, because tens of thousands of jobs are at risk. And that is where it is appropriate to act accordingly if there are at the same time 400 000 unemployed in that country. Minister Hundstorfer can't say: We have a solid starting position. A solid starting point, ladies and gentlemen, at 400,000 unemployed! We don't have them, we have a bad starting point. Of course, if we compare ourselves with Greece, Spain, Italy, Portugal, then the starting point is solid. I would, however, like to compare myself with competitive countries. That is why we need real measures that bring us forward, and not only plausible suffrages, as well as those of the ÖVP. 400 000 jobs I've read them recently. Where is it, Mr. Head? Where? As a politician, do you create 400 000 jobs? - I don't know. I miss the activities. We therefore need a real tax reduction in this country, which we need to counter-finance through reforms. We have proposed that. We have put forward proposals to this end. Because only when people have enough money – including the little man on the street who is supposed to represent the SPÖ – can they spend something and boost consumption. Then they can afford to live, to do the refuelling, to have children trained properly. That is why this is a central point for me. We also want better funding for small businesses, the EPUs, the SMEs. They often no longer get credit from the banks because of Basel III, which also stands us in the house; Basel II is in force, Basel III will come. Even higher capital requirements. What are we doing? – I tell you quite honestly, without polemics: Before we grant loans to banks, to Pleite States and to someone else, we should give these small businesses operating funds, start-up credits up to €100 000 and the state should assume responsibility for them instead of sinking the money somewhere in the Aegean. Or let's give the consumer something back, tag: Craftsman bonus. Why can't each of us drop €200 at the tax in the year when he gives the craftsman? If he employs the local industry, the businesses, the employees, the workers, then he should be able to quit 20 percent of it, of a maximum of € 1,200. Also an idea of the BZÖ. Another concrete idea to which the government has remained guilty: The 1-€ GesmbH. These are already available in Italy. Within a year, more than 3,000 companies were established there – uncomplicated, fast, unbureaucratic – and they also secured jobs. I have to say one thing – and you can't be proud of it by the government: If the World Bank compares 185 states and in terms of business conditions, we are only in place 29 and say and write only in place 134 when it comes to business start-up, it would have to be especially the ÖVP. So what's going on? Your party? As a businessman you must, in order to be able to lock up at all, buy around 28 days of spruce run between offices and authorities, and eight official routes. In addition, the banking business, the company book, the commercial register, will have to come to a notary, you need a lawyer You may still have to go to the Chamber of Commerce and perhaps also to the Chamber of Workers if you need an employee. – And you also have to pay for compulsory contributions before you can start. In the sense of the economy, one must go to the root of the evil in order to stop it. Another example, the topic of education: 75 000 young people do not have compulsory schooling. – That’s terrible, that’s terrible, and I’m telling you quite honestly: There's something we need to do; we need to help them. Therefore, we also want to have a labour market maturity test. We want to train these young people until they can calculate, read and write – very simple, banal things – so that the entrepreneur then knows that the youth he sets up can. This is also a profit for entrepreneurs. These are the concrete approaches that can be implemented quickly. To the trade unions: There is certainly a lot of sunshine, but there is also plenty of shade. I just mention the BAWAG as an example. I could talk about it for an hour, but I don't want to. I don't want to dig around there. It seems to me, however, that in many areas one sometimes tries to abuse the trade unions – even in election struggles. We will experience this again, and we will show it. It may not be that private clubs on the one hand for the SPÖ and on the other hand for the teachers make fight moods for the ÖVP. This is entirely in addition and must not be accepted. They have other tasks. But also Mr President, who is behind me and whom I very much appreciate privately, is in reality a grandmaster of the official mikados, according to the motto: Whoever moves first, has already lost! [[President Neugebauer: (standing from his seat to accept documents) I stand up!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: He's moving!]] [[Abg. New builder: He's already been moving!]] What happened in the teacher service law in the last few weeks! Why don't we finally make sure that we get a good teacher service right in this country, where performance pays off – for the teachers as well as for the students? Why don't we do that? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No employee understands that everyone else normally has to work 40 hours, while a teacher comes out with 20 hours, in operation. You can change that if you want to. That would be justice, or that in the summer, students who don't have that easy, two weeks before school, they would be given free follow-up. The use of teachers there would also make sense. That's why I'm just saying: Because Fritz wants it that way, it remains silent in our schools. - And that can't be it. I therefore also invite the EIA to bring momentum into education policy, because this is also a site issue and because trade unions are also responsible for it, which should move a little bit.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e15984	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16005	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know where to start. All that's been said here! It would take a long time to find out everything. I also thought: Should I refer to the untruths and the false arguments and quotations of the Stronach team, or should I use the time that remains for me now to thank all those who have been actively on the road in the last five days to finally hold 33 business meetings by next Friday? [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Harm around time!]] All works councils, all trade union secretaries, all workers in the Chambers of Workers: A total of 400 people were on the road outside, and we will be able to have included 95 percent of all outstanding claims on wage and salary claims until Friday in these 33 assemblies. We will still contact the rest in the next few days personally. This was a great interplay, which only worked because there are trade unions, because there is also a federal government that in the background curls and supports, and because there is a mass administrator who goes far beyond its limits in decisions, in the case of submissions, as far as the creditor committee is concerned. I would like to thank all these people once again and ask them to continue these two days until we have captured everything. I would like to wish the mass administrator and his team all the best for the next weeks and months. [[It was in favour of SPÖ as well as of representatives of ÖVP, FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] All this has been done only because one works together and because thank God no team of Stronach has responsibility in this country. If Stronach were to be responsible here in this country, then there would be no longer any trade unions, and then it would not be possible to be on the ground. [[Abg. Ing. Lugar, shit!]] I am also grateful for the recognition and appreciation that have already been expressed here today. I can assure Mr Neubauer: In the course of these meetings – and I will be in Upper Austria again tomorrow at 7 o'clock – we are trying to convince those who are not yet members of it, perhaps in the future – if they have a job if they continue to become members. This is now also the opportunity to make a big appeal to all clients in Austria: What is stated in the urgent request is that procurement contracts should be re-submitted is a legal issue. There, too, there is no complete agreement among the givers. The fact is: We have a mass manager who has clearly determined a course of action. Tenders shall be submitted by the creditor to the creditor committee. The creditor committee recommends to the insolvency court that these proposals be approved by the mass administrator and thereafter the client is on the train. All clients have the possibility to pass on this contract to public authorities in negotiations with this collecting company, with these companies that are willing to take over the employees, on the same terms and conditions. We need courage and decisiveness to say that we do not wait until any lawyers come to a decision after weeks or months. We are now acting as proposed by the mass administrator and as the insolvency judge has approved. This is the appeal to all clients, because the workers want to work. They do not want to wait until any lawyers agree on how to do so, and that is why this decision is important to make a human decision. And I'll tell you quite openly: These decisions will take place! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the apprentices, because they were also addressed: I would like to thank the ÖBB and our Federal Minister Bures, who created a reception network, for knowing that perhaps not all 70 apprentices need to use this offer because now new decisions are being made every day. Last afternoon, the decision was made by the company PORR: 14 apprentices will be taken over only for the Vienna branch. All these declarations of will! The company Hinteregger took over ten apprentices in Styria. The goal is that every apprentice can complete his teaching and take up the examination of the course. – A very important goal, too, and we will achieve that. Finally, Mr Lugar, if you are adapting the trade unions here: The trade unions are jointly responsible for what has been created here in this country. We are part of this Republic. We have built this republic. We are stabilizers everywhere where social peace is concerned. The economy needs the union in Austria. Why? – Because we go into open and objective discussions and, accordingly, we also find common solutions. I've been myself since the 15th century. Lifetime union member and I am proud to be a trade union member since then. I was proud when I became a youth trust board at the age of 16, and I am also proud to have been a construction worker. No one in this room knows what it means to be unemployed to obtain unemployment benefit. I had to stamp; I had to feed my family with unemployment benefit. This conjuncture package has not been created to save the Alpine, but it has been created so that the people of the Alpine and the entire construction industry after the processing of the Alpine construction sites will also have a job in this country in the future. That is why this building economy package is so important, and for that it is thanks to the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16069	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16091	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Much today is the talk of responsibility, and I believe that a very large part of the responsibility lies with our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who ultimately employ 70 percent of the employees in Austria, and that is not always easy. They also employ people when it is economically difficult and takes place in an environment in which it is not always easy to find a corresponding job again and again. They and their employees hold together because they pursue the same goal, and the common goal is: Employment, competitiveness and productivity, and they often do so without any trade unions in the background. Class struggle is usually not recommended because, as has been said, they hold together in a special way. It was really remarkable: When I found out that in my federal business and craft industry in the first quarter we had to fight with a 3 percent minimum, our member companies still maintained employment with almost 600,000 people. This is, I believe, a significant factor in the close links between small and medium-sized enterprises and their employees. Today, large companies like Alpine, dayli and others are in insolvency. This has been the case in the past, and it will also be possible to do so in the future if, in boundless expansions, all commercial expansions I would like to ask the Commissioner whether the Commission is prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Community is able to take a more effective and more effective approach to this problem. By the way, trade union representatives are always sitting in the supervisory councils who know the development of these enterprises, and yet they are doing as they do. If the entrepreneurs and the economy have a right to find a framework in a state that also supports the competitiveness of their businesses. Fortunately, this government has just responded with a boost package – €1.6 billion in total – but not because of insolvencies that are now in the house, but because the economy is not developing as it was planned by the economic researchers. However, from our point of view there is still much to do from the point of view of the economy and a lot to work on the conditions for competition. A tax rate of almost 43 percent and a social rate of 31 percent are not the best basis for a competitive economy in our country. We must make every effort to achieve this, and we also need to greatly improve the efficiency of administration and bureaucracy. The ÖVP fights with its party supervisor Michael Spindelegger with all its forces against new burdens and taxes and tries to revitalize the economy and create new potentials with more money, especially among employees and employees. If there is potential, then they are not only to be sought and found by the companies, but also by the administrative authorities. It is not to be seen that in Austria, for example, we have an unemployment insurance contribution of about 6 per cent of the total wage, while Germany, which has significantly more unemployed than we do, comes out with 3 per cent and Switzerland, which is a little better than we are, with only 2.2 per cent. Overall, I believe, there is a potential to make the state and the administration even more competitive, because if we have a high level of productivity and competitiveness together – the economy and the state – then we will also be able to secure the necessary employment and prosperity.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16148	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16169	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, When I discuss this with the students of economics in my lecture, which is important for a good development in an economy, many areas, many points are addressed. What is often not mentioned are the issues of social stability and fair distribution – both very important issues for good economic development. The trade union is making a very important contribution to these two areas, and that is a good thing. In the case of all the trade union and trade union movement, which have already been listed today, one must also consider parts that have also led to a strong content discourse. There was one of the great examples in the history of the Green Movement, of course, Hainburg. However, this was about a content discourse that was conducted, but not about the adaptation of a movement that is important. Of course, there are also structural-conservative parts and advanced parts in this area, and precisely these advanced parts need to be strengthened. There are also expectations that even with regard to the changed situations in the economy, such as the issue of working time, the division of working time, will not depend on the old demand for six weeks of vacation, but on how to reduce overtime and create more jobs, how to deal with the all-in contracts and so on. There are many issues in which trade unions should be openly positioned, how to deal with them. In this whole topic Alpine and construction industry is a striking one – and it is important and good so that there is great commitment to saving jobs according to them –: This is a very man-dominated area. It was so already after the crisis that there was short work in many areas such as metal, mechanical engineering and so on, and so on. But I would like to see exactly the same commitment in the women's-dominated industries, from the textile sector to trade. It's easy to take a closer look at it, to work more intensively with it. Yesterday, for example, in the “Report” a very touching contribution was made by the workers who lost their job at the company Triumph, and the fates resulting from it. Of course, the foundations, the social plans are an important and good initiative, but we must not forget about the present fates: In Austria, there are more than 330 000 unemployed people, many young people, and it is about creating structures that create jobs and secure jobs in perspective. Mr Muchitsch, the merits are undisputed, including those in connection with the Alpine at the moment. But I would like to stress one thing here as well: In the entire debate on construction and construction contracts, one should finally – and this is also a call to the government; in this legislative period it will be nothing more; we hope that this will be done in the next – address the issue of the best bidder principle/coefficient bidder principle. In the case of public procurement, the best bidder principle needs to be struck, then there can be no such situation that underprice is offered and construction sites can no longer be handled because the companies become insolvent. This is an area that is always neglected, but has to be taken into account here. Because today many competent representatives from the union are in our ranks, I will give you an example from the post area. Postage providers who complain incredibly about their working conditions, who say to them: Yes, what does the union do?, say the union is somehow disputed among itself, where nothing goes on, complete revision, permanent illness and so on: These are areas that have been obvious for years and in which nothing goes on! This is, of course, a point where I also wonder: Where is the power of the union to create good conditions which are actually necessary in this form? It can't be that it's always done with saying the overtime is paid. – The postal customers tell me this is not about it, but it is about good working conditions, which one holds for years and also until the retirement age. That must be changed in this form! In conclusion, Minister: I am delighted today in your remarks, as you have said, that the government is also supporting and supporting innovative entrepreneurship. You mentioned an example from the “Falter” – I have this today The businessman who wants to sell coffee in Vienna and has incredible problems is read by chance in the train at an early stage. – Christoph Matznetter, this is given to you! This entrepreneur writes: Unfortunately, I need a location permit for every single exit. – And he complains that it doesn’t work at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Of course, there is a need for a shattering of the trade order! Summa summarum are many building blocks that the Austrian economy and the Austrian workers will need in the next few months. Strong trade unions are part of it, but of course good conditions for entrepreneurs. – This is the other thing, and it needs to be continued.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16239	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16260	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! Today, there is a urgent request from the Stronach team, “union blocked – economic loss” is the title. We have then heard a lot from the clubman, and I would like to start by doing something again, because sometimes one loses the overview of what one stands for in this party. I heard the call from Canada: The trade unions in Austria are blocking, we have to do something! The clubman then just got a little deeper and said that they belong at least to us if he didn't ask for a little more. So, then Frank Stronach comes from Canada and says – I saw the contribution in the ORF –: I'm a big friend of the trade unions. Then the moderator: Yes, but your clubman said...! What does Frank Stronach say about it?: Well, you know, with us everyone can say what he wants, but – and that's very important – I'm boss! To the question of whether he is removable, he says recent thought: Actually not. This is regulated in the Statutes. Today I've heard about this from Robert Lugar. His boss says I am a great friend of the trade unions – he has literally said it today. In principle, membership of the trade unions is voluntary, and I know that there are real areas of problem, since membership is not always voluntary. There's already a quiet compulsion to be involved. The union has even gone so far as to say: Increases in salary that trade unions are negotiating should only get more trade union members at all, which I really think is a joke. It didn't come that way either. There's already such a quiet compulsion behind that: Become a member, or maybe you won't get a salary increase! In addition to this union, there are also areas where there is real compulsion: At the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Labour, we have compulsory membership contributions. I have said this again and again, Force is a bad access for me. I have also made this several times by means of applications, but I must note that there are two government parties who see this differently. This is true in democracy. So there is no majority. But now, for me, voting is important. [[Abg. Pendl: Thank God!]] Well, I'll get an intermediate call. “Thank God!” – But for whom? You didn't talk to everyone there right now. There are very, very many in Austria who do not want any compulsion either. Frank Stronach also said on TV: But the forced memberships are abolished. – I made such a request a few days before. How did the Stronach team vote? You hear and marvel: They have not voted in favour, and therefore they are obviously for forced membership. Against this background one should evaluate all that has been said here, where many no longer come along. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Yeah, then maybe we'll go over to dayli. This is for me to go back once too. Who's in debt now? I hear that the union is guilty, because if one could open on Sunday, then there would be no such situation. The fact is that in this House, with very broad consent, one has decided to change the law, because dayli wanted the Sunday opening on one, as I mean, to enforce a law gap. That was not planned by the legislator at the time, but the gap was present. I myself am one who is for a relaxation as regards the Sunday opening, but do not ask for the use of loopholes. That's why the law gap is closed. And this has not been done by the union, we should not overestimate it, it can only be done by the legislator. That was the National Council, and I felt that was the right thing to do. So start the big debate now: Who's the culprit? And to think that's the union, that's not right. As we are already at the trade union, I can bring in an area which has also been debated today, namely the question of the strike fund. There you go. You once told me: Make innovative proposals! You know, for me, the strike fund is an area that you pay with your member's contribution. This is something like an insurance policy for me. For the serious case, as the last measure to enforce something, there is the possibility of strike. Thank God we have hardly until no strike days in Austria. If someone is at the union for 40 years and has paid a lot of money in this strike fund, but has not reached a single day, at least one should be re-funded at the time of retirement. I think that would be an innovative story. You could also work with transparency. That would, I believe, be a good proposal for the union, in my view, a useful thing. Then, at least in this debate, there is something innovative about it. [[Call at SPÖ: You could do that in social security!]] You can't choose that. The trade union contribution is a volunteer, part of it comes into the strike fund. If I never need it, I think it's just right and cheap that I say you should think about whether you don't reintroduce some of it in retirement. I think it's a bad thing. Please, think about it from the union! And don't think you're so good at the members! Dissatisfaction is great. You can't expect miracles. I myself was long enough personnel representatives and knows that there are also limited areas, but exactly in the area, namely in the strike fund, keyword BAWAG, something has long been done. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this sense, I should like to ask you to take this innovative proposal seriously within the union.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16329	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16350	Mr President. Federal Minister! If you report a little later, you have to make some corrections. Mr Dolinschek, I have avoided making an actual correction, but it is simply wrong what you are saying here. Fortunately, although we have a bad environment and many, many thousands of people are unemployed this year, we are not the highest unemployment rate in the Second Republic! I'm actually correcting: According to EUROSTAT, we have 4.7 percent unemployed today. Too much. But let's take a look at what you need to know: What was the 2005 rate? 5.4%, Mr State Secretary, starting from 26. January 2005 – at a time when growth at the time was 2.9 percent, long before the economic crisis! [[Abg. Dolinschek: Less!]] Today, we might just create 0.8 percent. We have a recession all over Europe. It is a difference how politics is made. The accusation that is raised there – I know you have to do that as an opposition – is simply wrong. There is much to be criticised by the government, but the conditions for creating it and trying to do everything that has not increased unemployment for 80 years, despite the biggest economic crisis, can be respected as such. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I voted in favour of some of the contributions you have made. But this point serves self-criticism, especially if one has been responsible on the government bank at this time. The Laisser-faire is not always the right thing to do, and at that time the social partnership was deliberately reduced. I remember the way in which the Presidents of Leitl and Vergestnich, like the school boys in the Federal Chancellor's Office, have been completed. One has believed that this is not modern and with little social partnership it is better, that we are driving over it, and then has used puzzle stones. Did anything get better? - No, it's gotten worse! And it was good that you said it here because that gave me the opportunity to correct it. It is not without the social partners, but it is better for the country, for workers and for people with the social partners. This attempt was bitter for the people, but it was good for us that we no longer make such mistakes. That's how I can turn to the genius. We have thought that “Génie” is a detergent for intervening and may still be available at dayli if there is still a delivery of goods there. This is obviously meant by Mr Lugar, because otherwise the genius is not present here. To stay with dayli: Mr Windholz presented the situation correctly. To want to take advantage of a law gap to compete in the market in reality unfairly against all the other drug markets and drugstores that still exist, with the claim that we are a coffee house or a restaurant, and there is by chance the entire range of drugstore goods, is an unbearable form of unfair competition. A number of previous speakers have correctly said that this House does not want a Sunday opening in the majority of trade. And that's what everyone has to stick to. We have many thousands of family businesses that still have a drugstore. What remains of them at the end of the year? For those, the chains are fearsome enough as regards the income for their families from the family business. But that then this chain says I'm not a drugstore chain, I'm a guest house, I may have an administration in the corner, and to which the last customers – and they're always being redistributed, that's what Mr Dolinschek has correctly noted – and I still take away the low sales until they have to lock up, we won't accept. Just because Frank Stronach is friends with the 1-million-Udine man, we don't need to perform such an ape dance here. We should strive to bring the structures in order. Schlecker was insolvent before! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Muchich and Mr Katzian said it right, here everything you can do to help people structurally to see that they are still in employment. But the stupidities of management cannot and will not prevent politics. And that is why the accusation to the trade unions is that they are guilty of dayli, because they protest that Sunday is open, a mockery special. They're going to go to the people who are committed to human beings, and they're working for thousands of people affected. Are you not ashamed of such a thing? Just because of the cheap propaganda of Frank Stronach? So that's where the country really deserves something else.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16409	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Windy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16430	Mr President. Federal Minister! The urgent request of the Stronach team addresses the current situation on the labour market and also the precarious field in the construction industry. It is already suggested here as if everyone would sleep in this country, would not do anything and would not resist it. And since one has to start with the OECD's statements recently, we will have 0.5 percent economic growth in 2013 and 2014 that thanks to God, we will rise to 1.7 percent. And if we compare these percentages with the EU average, we are at least 1% higher this year and still 0.6% higher next year. Ladies and gentlemen, this advantage, which we thank God, must be kept, we must not lose it, and we must counter it with economic measures. And politics also does something about it. It is about the economic and work location. The government has decided on an economic package with preferred measures by 2014. The good thing is that this package is not being financed on pump as often as it used to be, but that we do not continue to abandon our consolidation path with the zero deficit in 2016, which we must not lose sight of. It is very important for this package to build housing, the construction is general. We will have 170 000 new households in Austria by 2020. That means that we will also need 170 000 new housing units. For this purpose, € 276 million of fresh money will be made available from the housing support of the federal government, namely the proceeds of the frequency auction, the digital dividend. We also know that four new jobs will be created for each new apartment. That means that this will also have an employment effect. In addition, Many private funds are still being spent in this area, so that there are a total of several billion. The BIG, the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, will also favor projects for renovations accordingly. Secondly, there are also construction projects related to painful floods, to the protection measures that people and businesses in the Danube area urgently need. Here we have already completed 17 projects in recent years, totaling € 280 million, and another 17 projects are under construction or planning. These projects are also preferred by four years, instead of final target 2023 now final target 2019. A total of €400 million will be made available by federal, country and local authorities. And thirdly, The farms, not only the people, but also the establishments that are damaged by the flood, must also be promoted and supported. Total loans of €400 million, i.e. from ERP funds, which will not become budget-effective, will be made available, loans free of interest will be granted for six years free of interest and the repayment of which will take three years at the beginning of the term. Other than that mentioned for example: Expansion of childcare sites, investments in wildlife and avalanche cultivation, total increase to €200 million, so that there are no more floods, so that the flood on the mountain can still be intercepted, and investments in the settlement water industry. Damaged channels, drinking and wastewater supply, all of these things must be repaired or improved. The Ministry of Economic Affairs will set aside reserves that will provide €50 million of guarantees for the bridging financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs, which will also assist the economic situation accordingly. And, last but not least, €10 million for new investment grants for SMEs will be released. Finally, a look at the request formulation, which is particularly disturbing to me. You have now heard what this economic package includes, and this request states that this package only deals with Alibi measures, although you know exactly that a total of €1.5 billion will be released in the next three years through grants and loans. And the formulation must also be broken on the tongue: The fire brigade was called too late, only when the house had already been burned down. There you have to ask: Is the house Austria, is the Austrian house meant here? I am opposed to such a naïve-radial visual language, this plausative populism. This is a materializing of our location, our home country and, in fact, an insult to the many hard-working, thousands of entrepreneurs/employers, whom we owe to this prosperous Austria. And we do not let this Austria speak badly, simply because it does not correspond to the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16500	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16521	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the Stronach team, I don't understand the excitement. You have much more in common with the trade unions than you actually think. The union holds itself in the social democratic ranks individual Members, who represent the trade union interests here; we know that. The only one who wanted to dispossess the trade unions from Parliament at that time was the former party president Gusenbauer. Raiffeisen and the banking sector hold their own members in the ranks of the Austrian People's Party. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the Stronach team, are parliamentary lakais of a millionaire, merchants and mercenaries, who do not express their opinion here, but those of their lobbyist from Canada. [[OBJECTIVES]] The difference between you, the union and the bank representatives is zero. They are active in the privatised sector, the reds in the social partnership and the blacks in the banking sector. This is the only difference, ladies and gentlemen of the Stronach team. The fact that I did not like today's debate – and probably very many spectators too – is that this debate was under the impression of the mutual hack, but only the least of the speakers, such as Mr Sigi Dolinschek, at the height of unemployment in this Republic, wanted to discuss how we were dealing with the unemployed from the Alpine plea, from the threatening dayli plea. You don't care. It interests you the mutual debt allocation, who is responsible for bankruptcy in this country, but that we help those people who have no perspective and no job to feed their families, which seems to be interested in this house only the least, very dear ladies and gentlemen! Remarkable is the argument of social democracy: If a company is pleading, it was the management! If a company flourishes successfully, it was the Austrian Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! This argument that you have presented to us today together with your coalition partner, the Austrian People's Party, speaks volumes! How do we discuss bringing more workers back into employment? How do we discuss the fact that we have 314,000 unemployed in Austria? – Once in this Parliament, we are discussing how we can finally reduce taxes in this country so that employers can be able to employ workers, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The highest tax rate, one of the highest tax rates in Europe, is the milestone for our economy, which causes bankruptcy, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party and of Social Democracy! You have never created a job, which is true, but with your tax and social policy you prevent valuable jobs in our country. We have too high additional labour costs, which make the Austrian economy – small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises – no longer competitive, and a tax rate that kills our domestic economy, which no longer enables employers to make their businesses imaginative, but also idealistically. And in addition, compulsory membership contributions come to the Chamber of Labour and to the Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Lugar, you're wrong – along with your slightly hollow party leader. That is why, in Austria, compulsory membership at the chambers – at the Chamber of Workers and at the Chamber of Commerce – is finally to be abolished! Every infant knows that the trade unions are a voluntary club. I am concerned with the compulsory contributions that will be charged to the salaries and which will be deducted from the companies – funds, economic chamber contributions required by entrepreneurs to keep their businesses flourishing; Money that workers need to feed their families, but which unfortunately flow into the swamp of compulsory membership! We should talk about this – and not about bad urgent questions from a holly political group!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16597	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Rosary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16619	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! This urgent request from the Stronach team is indeed strange to formulate it carefully. We are familiar with strong sounds from the Stronach team and its consequences, so we know what that is. For example – I remember the Lower Austrian country election campaign –: Who was the sharpest opponent, the fastest mouthbrush against Erwin Pröll? – The Stronach team and Frank Stronach in particular. Inability, economic disaster and the like have accused Frank Stronach Erwin Pröll. And: Its absolute majority, it has to go! Frank Stronach was the loudest trumpeter for this claim. But the country election was scarcely beat and the first meetings of the Landtag went to the country, who agreed to the Erwin Pröll budget without any coalition or similar? – The Stronach team! So that's how it looks: In the past, unlike in the realistic, actual implementation of the programme. That is why we are used to making the appropriate points out aloud, as is the case with this urgent request. I understand that once again a young group is trying to do something like this and is delivering a first piece of work here. And then probably the masters have to come and see if that works right. But if you look at the content, you can read in the explanatory statement as a headline: “Employment is blocked – economy is losing.” And in chronology, you'll find out what's going on. And that is – I quote –: "dayli must withdraw its Sunday opening on the basis of pressure from the trade union and authorities, as the trade regulations have been amended in this respect. GPA-djp chief Wolfgang Katzian jubelt and says: ‘It is not enough to set up a beverage machine as a drugstore market and to sell liver cheeses’. Well, that's a very clear point – it's also mentioned by previous speakers –: There are always gaps in laws or possibilities of circumvention. And there, I have to say, Frank Stronach is with certainty the master. That's why he supports it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For example: Absorbing tax provisions, avoiding transparency in the Party Finance Act. Approximately like this: Now all get only loans, these are no more donations, now there are only more loans, so I don't need to report that at all! The best friend is now making the bypass in the form that one offers at a Sunday opening hepatitis and otherwise something else and tries to circumvent the rules for opening hours. – A master of circumvention in reality, and you are the corresponding students. It is also stated here in the urgent question: “The GPA is baffling itself with developing a social plan for dayli, because for the first time it stands in the room that dayli, as a result of the ban on Sunday opening, puts employee announcements into space.” What's that? – The company says: Dear employees and dear trade unionists and dear legislators, with the Sunday opening it is like this: If you don't kiss, if you don't dance after my pipe, there will be cancellations! Appreciated members of the Stronach team, I ask you: Which side are you on? On the side of the entrepreneur who says: If you, the employees, do not feel it because of the collective agreement, because of operating council hours and otherwise, then there will be consequences!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Are you on the side of the entrepreneur who uses such methods that make such tests of necessity and extortion? Or are you on the side of the workers who are forced to work a low wage? Tell me what side you're on! Do not shake the head, but give a reply to which side you are on! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another small detail in chronology: ‘28. June: “ Music Announces ” So you have to say: Proclaiming is something that comes from the realm of religion. Perhaps this has already been taken over by the sectarian to such an extent that, according to the model of the Mary's proclamation, there is now a Frank announcement or something else. But I'd like to leave that aside. I believe that Muchch has not “preached” anything, but that is something else. It's just a small side sentence. In this negative context, you think that the union is blocking. And by the way it says here – I quote –: “Muchitsch” says, “that the ÖBB would take over 70 Alpine teachers, for the remaining 72 apprentices he calls on the construction industry that is already very busy to take over.” Mr Lugar, do you think it is bad that 70 young people have quickly found a job? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] Why is that cited, with all this negative heading? In reality, it is to be welcomed! Or do you want these young people to be given their job opportunities, their training opportunities? Why Lead Is that what you're doing with this negative side-effect? [[Consistency with FPÖ and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] Now on another point, but that also concerns the trade union. We have already heard of the association structure, the association-free foundation and of who determines who is allowed as an association in Austria, and of the like. What's the union doing? – He says: Sunday opening hours are prohibited by law, and therefore as an association we advocate that the laws be observed in Austria. What happens, Mr. Lugar, after the performance of the Stronach team, when a judge says: My God, no, we do have an Austrian legal order, but that is actually relatively much for me in the individual case, because actually I imagine it quite differently, and I don't decide as a judge how the legal order suggests it to me, but how it happened to me at lunch or at coffee bruising!? – You probably need appropriate action and explanation. And in question 18, which you have asked to the absent social ministers, it says: “ Within the members of the trade unions there are blatant differences between pensions and salaries.” What does that mean? – Do you require a collective unit wage for union members, which can be acquired by voluntary membership? I don't understand what that means! In this question, it goes on to say: “Simple members receive their statutory pension or pension. normal remuneration, union chairpersons shall receive supplementary pensions and high union salaries.’ I am now asking this question the other way round. You can then answer them because you are already stuck in the starting holes to provide information. I now put the question 18 a little bit back, namely: Within the members of the Stronach team there are blatant differences in pensions and salaries. Simple members get their legal cover. Team Stronach presidents receive additional pensions and high team Stronach salaries. What measures do you take as Team Stronach club chairman to create justice here? And what does this justice look like in your eyes? [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I ask for the transmission of a clear calculation model, if necessary for understanding. Will you earn as much as Frank Stronach now? Or how are you doing this now?
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16769	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16790	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I do not have the time to address all these very interesting speeches. I will therefore deal selectively with it and answer the question on which side we are on. You have asked which side we are on: on the side of employers or on the side of employees? – I can tell you: We're on both sides. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] We stand on both sides, because in a thriving economy – which seems to you unknown – employers' interests, workers' interests and the interests of the economy as a whole are important. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: In a concrete situation, the contradiction is blatant!]] That's no contradiction! If you are constructing a contradiction here, you have not understood the principle. But I think today's discussion has shown: As soon as someone comes and dares to address in this House certain things that lie in consensus – we have heard today, there are consensus in many areas, there are all or at least a lot of things for them – then immediately the cue is unwinded. That's what we've seen today! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Finally, you didn't say anything about this. No one has anything against it when employers and employees work together. No one has anything against it if you ask fundamental questions. For example: What do we need the union for? Mr Gusenbauer also asked the question: What do we need unionists in the High Authority? House? And he just gave the answer, he said: No, we don't need them for nothing! And he's banned them, too. There were no trade unionists in the House at the time. So I don't understand where the problem is now. [[Abg. Riepl: That's the problem: that you don't understand anything!]] If today a Member comes out of here and asks: If we still need the union and what do we need it for, and you come out here and you would argue in the matter, then that would not be a problem, but you did not. You didn't argue on the matter! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What you've done is: You've been evading. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Why are you never in committee?]] They have made untrue claims here, and above all they have done something that makes the government and the heads of state of Lower Austria and other federal states perfect, namely: Every criticism is immediately interpreted as criticism against all the people, against the state, against all people. That is, the union says: Whoever exposes abuses in the trade union, as we do – and it is only abuses that we discover here – he goes on to democracy, he goes against all the workers, he is undemocratic, he is a dictator! [[Abg. Wenninger: That's right! You're right.]] Where are we? Is it not possible to criticise the House? Is that really so bad? Is it so bad that it is then claimed that Frank Stronach is a tax evasioner, just as Mr. Ollinger did? – By the way, this is a criminal offence if it's gone away from you. If you say he's withdrawing taxes because he's paying taxes in Canada, please, Mr. Ollinger, make yourself smart! A man like Frank Stronach has 300 businesses worldwide, and he has most businesses in Canada. And now tell me, If he has most of his businesses in Canada and therefore most of his income, do you really believe that he should pay taxes in Austria? After what do you think the Canadians would have a joy if he were a tax refugee from their point of view and would be taxing here in Austria his income he has in Canada?- Oh, my God! By the way, the tax rate of Canada and Austria is quite similar, there is not much difference. That means there's no advantage. But why should he, if he has income in Canada, tax these in Austria? [[Abg. Riepl: Because that would be decent!]] All income he has in Austria is very likely to be taxed in Austria. And he said he paid 1 million euros of taxes. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: How much does he deserve in Austria?]] How much did you pay last year? And finally, look, there comes a man from the world – Frank Stronach is a man of the world! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] That's where the horizon does not end behind the goose-pocket, as it seems to you. And if a man comes from the world and does it at the age of 80 to get into politics, takes his own money to move something in this country, and you have nothing left, but everything he says, always to do bad and not to deal with it on the level, but only on the personal level, then it is quite clear that you have not understood the essence of politics, for politics is discourse. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] It is not about politics that, if I stand out here today and say, we have to look at the trade union, because there are misdevelopments, which Mr Gusenbauer has also seen in this way, no one of the Members comes out here and takes up these arguments and argues in the matter, but only with diffamations, with attacks, with interruptions, even with criminally relevant things! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Oberhauser]] – It can be seen that some Members – at least from my point of view, and I must say that in this clarity – are not ready to conduct an objective discourse here. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] And that is exactly what we need in the House: an objective discourse – and not this one against another! If we – and I am now again at the trade union – have called for something quite reasonable, namely that the trade union whose membership is not always as voluntary as many claim to join the Chamber of Labour, whose membership should then be voluntary, because this could save a lot of money and create a new powerful organization that could even better represent the interests of workers and, at the same time, some of the €600 million that go on this system every year could be saved, so if I have proposed it here today or already proposed it, why don't we talk about it? Or: Why are we not talking about the fact that the trade union now has a shadow government function in this country and is interfering in things that they are not dealing with at all, such as tax increases and much more? That's not the union's business. It would be for the union to really care about the interests of workers and to take care of order in its own organization. And I didn't want anything more! I never wanted to get rid of the union. I never said that! And if you really read this, you'll see it like that. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I never said that! I have only asked the question of what we need the union to do. And it would be good for you to get out of here today and say why we need the trade unions. But you didn't. You've remained guilty. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That's exactly what I'd have expected today. But what did you do? – They have made wild accusations against Frank Stronach, who does no other than help this country, because he thinks not only up to the goose, but also has a look at the world that many here seem to have not. And we can benefit from this, we can benefit from it! And we want to do that together. We'll give you the hand. If you beat them out, I can't do anything.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e16992	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[18:17:19]] Short debate on the reply to the question 14186/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17017	We now come to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry with the order number 14186/AB. The answer to the question has been distributed, and the reading is therefore inadequate. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker can speak for more than 5 minutes and the first speaker can speak for 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask the applicant to open the debate with Mr Hagen. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17051	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I have suggested this discussion of the answer to the question 14186/AB because I do not think that the request I made about the “air-hunderter” about the so-called “emission protection air-hunderter” was sufficiently or incorrectly answered by the head of the Department of Life. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'm not someone who's just asking for fun or for lust and mood, like some people are doing to run a barber list, but I'm asking questions to get concrete answers if I'm very interested in a topic or if I'm a little upset. Now the story about this: I was traveling by car in Tirol, from Vorarlberg to Salzburg. And Tyrol is well-known for the fact that most of the weather – whether good or bad – is the “air-hunderter” is enabled all the time. Anyone who has gone through this is annoyed when it happens in rainy weather, because it's hard for anyone to tell me that in rainy weather the air emissions are very high when it rains all night long. So when you drive through Tyrol in the rainy weather towards Salzburg and it still rains in the early days, the “air-hunderter” is still on. This is not only true in Tyrol, but it is also common in Upper Austria. Then, of course, I asked myself whether these conditions for the “air-hunderter” really exist. It is true that as an Austrian learner, I know of course that the drivers are happy to take over and collect fines. So I assume that the countries are very generous in dealing with these “air-hunderter” attitudes. I see that, too, because most of the time, when the “air-hunder” is inside, there are two or three radar cars somewhere that flash the “fast driver” – under the reference marks – on the motorway with just over a hundred corresponding flashes. Who doesn't know: You'll be fined twice. One part of the punishment is given to the streetkeeper, the other part of the punishment, the doubled, the federal state in which the “air-hunder” has been set. I found there – in rainy weather, as I said, the whole night it rained – although I am not a specialist in this area, but with common sense I can say that the particles that are supposed to be prevented by this “air-hunderter” are probably washed away. I then made the effort and once asked myself, because I just noticed that the “air-hunderter” is very often inside on the West motorway. That's why I asked you a question. I would perhaps like to make a brief statement or read to the audience about how the questions have been raised. The first question was: “How often was displayed on the above-mentioned streets” – these are the A 10 in Salzburg, the A 2 and the A 9 in Styria, the A 12 in Tyrol – “the “IG-L hundred” since the entry into force of the novelle 2010? (Please make a breakdown by year, month, day, federal states and roads. )’ Question 2: "How high were the individual immission values and threatening limit values that led to an indication of the IG-L hundred? (Please get a breakdown as in Question 1.)’ Question 3 was: "How high were the Immission values on 19 and 20 in concrete terms. April 2013” – that’s the said day or are these two days when I went to Salzburg and return – “which led to an advertisement of the “IG-L Hunderter” at the A 12 in Tyrol?” Question 4: "How high were the Immission values on 19 and 20 in concrete terms. April 2013, which led to an advertisement of the ‘IG-L Hunderter’ at the A 10 in Salzburg?’ Then Question 5: "How high the Immission values were on the 19th. April 2013 which led to an advertisement of the ‘IG-L Hunderter’ on the A 1 in Upper Austria?’ The last question was: "Are the federal states (state leaders) reporting on the implementation of the IG-L to the Federal Government? If so, you can see these reports publicly; and where can you take the insight?" [[Call to the FPÖ:Did she also receive a reply?]] Now it's like you answered me here: “On questions 1 and 2: On the basis of the data volume and the decentralised location of the information’, ‘this breakdown cannot be provided. [[Abg. Scheibner: That will be in the speaking time...!]] The organisational and financial effort associated with such a survey would be disproportionately high” and would “shall employ some employees in the federal states, the BMLFUW, the ASFINAG and the Federal Environment Office for a long time.” [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Are you...?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We didn't understand that now!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a right of interconnection, and if I ask a question, I also want a clear answer. We have recently expanded this right of interconnection. [[Abg. Scheibner:... read ahead!]] In my opinion, it has not been properly or adequately answered here, because it is a matter of having precise figures and knowing whether these excesses are really available under the Air Re Content Act. Questions 3 to 5 have It replied as follows: ‘In the absence of any data secured at that time, no information can be provided about the situation on these special days.’ Now I've listed you for two days. You took two months to answer the question with this sentence, and there was nothing specific about it. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: This is the legal deadline!]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, if you ask questions, you should also get an answer. The answer to question 6 was still insufficient, because you have not answered me how the national leaders are involved here and what is being done in the whole, so that the drivers can really understand whether they are right to pay the doubled penalty or not. I'm just saying, here's where the driver is re-cashed. That's not what we're going to do. Then I would like to, even though it is not now As far as your ministry is concerned, this is because it is simply this right of interconnection that I would like to take a closer look at it here. I asked a question to the Minister for the Interior at the time; there is also an ÖVP minister who seems to be not very happy to answer. This question was briefly addressed to the State Secretary, concerning his blocking of a disabled parking lot in Upper Austria with the service vehicle. You know the story from the media. Here I have received almost no answer, or no usable, to what has been asked. In my view, this is a procedure that has a system here. As has been said, we have now extended this right of inquiry over the summer so that we can really ask questions. But then I also expect a reasonable answer, ladies and gentlemen, if I ask a reasonable question. This has not happened here, you can say quite clearly. I do not want to read this request yet. I would like to make it short because we are still sitting long enough today. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way to deal with Members' right to interact in this House. Mr Minister, I expect to be better here, and perhaps you will promise me that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17162	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17183	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In principle, Mr President, you can assume that my House or I am answering the question of best knowledge and conscience. You mentioned that the data situation is not sufficient, and that was also the reason why we did not give you the data. We don't write any fantasy figures into a request answer that you would rightly criticize. You already have to rely on it, and we can only use data that is available. In principle, air quality in Austria has improved significantly in recent years. We have recently discussed the environmental report in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, where we have marked improvements in many areas of various air pollutants. For example, sulphur dioxide – if you remember acid rain – is not a problem today, but also in lead, arsenic, cadmium, carbon monoxide and the like, we have clear improvements. In some areas we need reuptake, in the case of fine dust, but also in the case of NOX. In any case, it is also a matter of presenting the framework conditions. We have noveled the Immission Protection Act a few years ago. We understand this as a tool case for the Heads of State, who are responsible for air pollution through the Constitution, with the country in question, the region in question, so to speak. Takes out the tool from this law, which is adapted in the region and is intended to contribute to air improvement. These can be speed limits, also other things in the field of economy and transport, but also in various other areas. In any event, we have also adopted two regulations to devote ourselves to the issue of fine dust. The fact is that the limit values are exceeded in some regions. Therefore, the Länder and the individual regions are required to implement the air pollution programmes which they have prepared and which have also been notified to Brussels. In concrete terms, the law obliges national leaders to take action. I have mentioned that this may be permanent or temporary speed limits, but also driving bans for older trucks, night driving bans, and public transport expansion programmes. Since 2007, the IG-L has given the head of state the possibility not only of making fixed speed limits, but also temporary restrictions by means of so-called VBAs, traffic control systems, in particular in the case of air pollutants or in the case of fine dust. On the topic of switching times addressed by you. The switching times of these systems depend on how high the current pollutant load is, how the time course shows how high the traffic density is, and of course it also depends on the weather. Because you say it falls rain, and it washes, as it were, the fine dust, the pollutants away: It's not that simple. Especially in low-pressure weather, for example, the pressure can be large in fine dust, except in this situation, for example, wind, which, very simply speaking, blows the contaminated air; then the situation is another. For example, we have a problem in Graz again and again. There is an inversion weather situation there, therefore the load with the fine dust is particularly high there. In any case, the national leaders are obliged to do so until 30. An evaluation report for the period 1 September May of the previous year until 30. In April of the current year, the Commission presented a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. For the days you have mentioned, there is no report yet, because the data collected must be evaluated and processed – I ask you to understand it – in order to provide you with correct data. The exact breakdown of switching times since 2010, as required in parts of the request, is therefore not fully possible. We're working on it. I refer to the evaluation reports in the sense of economy and also to slim, efficient management. As soon as we have these, they will also be published on the website of the Ministry of Life and will be available there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17238	We are going into the debate. The speaking time is 5 minutes per contribution. Mr Wenninger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17262	Mr President. Minister! High house! We now have the tragedy second part of the team Stronach within minutes. At first we had the pipe-creator with the anti-union bashing, and now we have the situation that Frank Stronach or anyone from his team is driving too fast by car, gets a penalty, then in Parliament a Request submitted and the Minister for the Environment wants to know why he has to pay punishment. [[Call the Stronach team.]] Now, of course, we can discuss whether temporary reductions for environmental reasons are justifiable, whether this is politically reasonable, whether everything has worked technically. I would like to give you a practical example. I have a traffic light in my small community in a side street that doesn't always work. But still I can't drive over the intersection at red! That is, the punishment you or your boss have made is legal. Secondly, as regards the answer to this question: Mr Minister, you do not always make it easy for us to defend you as regards the provision of information to the House, especially when it comes to environmental data. But perhaps, according to the experience of the last weeks and months, you can become a bit more interesting in this area in the future. In addition to this, perhaps both the information: There are the homepages of the Federal Environment Office and the Landesweltbehörde, where the environmental data are always clear. There both the ministry and the quick driver from the Stronach team can look in at any time. The third point: If you want to get rid of this debate in terms of content, this is the question of how to deal with the instrument of the Immission Protection Act. I think there would be something else in this tool case that the Minister has addressed. However, I am concerned that most of the country's leaders do not really deal with this instrument as we would expect. I myself come from a region where there are a lot of motorways. The national leaders are demanding noise protection walls from local citizens' initiatives and are set up for sintering money. Many drivers wonder where these noise protection measures stand. However, where they are actually used, they are usually not efficient enough. I believe that there would be an intelligent system to benefit both nature conservation, environmental protection and air pollution as well as citizens and road users. If intelligent transport influences reduce the pace at a high level of environmental pollution, this will be understood by everyone. If the federal states do not use this craftsmanship in the future as we expect it to be, then it will probably be necessary – with all the love of subsidiarity! – to find regulations at the federal level so that the air quality we expect in Austria and which we are used to is guaranteed in the future. In this sense, we will have to expand the instrument even further. To colleagues Stronach or Hagen, whoever went to the radar there: Just stick to the road traffic regulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17323	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17345	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today, we actually have a lesson on the politics of Stronach, and much has not been so far. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: There were empty hours!]] It's been a lot of hours, so eight hours of stronach policy is really enough now! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a question from Mr Hagen. When he travels to Lauterach and sits in the car – I imagine: he sits and drives, he thinks nothing and the day goes by, and at once, Zack!, comes the IG-L, and he thinks: Jessas, there was something! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Then he drives home, and there's an IG-L again! Since he's a trained police officer, at least a quarter police officer, he thinks: Maria, do I pay now, or should I show those who overtake me? – It's a stupid story. So I'd say that's a real stress situation for a team-stroach, I say, delegates. Because you don't have such a real stress. That's why I think the colleague is driving and driving and thinking: Why is that there? – Then it’s over, he gives back gas, and then he comes to the next. It's actually like this: If you drive from Lauterach to the wide world, it may be that you enter Upper Austria in Tyrol, in Salzburg. This is, as it were, three times a stress that you think: What am I doing now? – That’s really dangerous, so I understand that they say: There's something I want to know! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: colleague Rasinger always recommends breaks while driving!]] Yeah, right, he's recommending breaks, that's good. [[Call the FPÖ:If you're already called Rasinger!]] If you sit like this as a tormented MP in the Stronach team and think: there was something now, and there were values – values! The keyword: Values! We have values at Stronach! I'm asking the Frank what the values are, and I know the IG-L. IG air, and everything knows. And what happens? – I'm asking the Frank, and he's not telling me about the values! What am I doing in my stress now? – In my stress I go there and ask the one I assume knows everything: This is the Minister of Life. And I'll write this a letter. [[Abg. Wenninger: But he can't answer either!]] To that I say: Now I'd like to know what that is! For example, he could have asked the woman's head of state in Salzburg because she knows her values, knowing how she set the device. But you stupidly didn't think of them, it was. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Now we are here, you ask our Minister of State for the values, and he has to tell you: I'm sorry, the countries haven't reported yet! You could have asked him much more difficult things, for example, how this is in the Styria. In the Styria – oh, there, the Hannes Wenninger is certainly one who doesn't like to hear that, so I don't talk much further. But we will still have to talk about whether this country competence is really being lived in the interests of people, because there we have our gross problems with the fine dust. But don't worry – Mr Hagen comes home again, thinks I've got a secretary, he's got to be good at anything, too, and I'm saying this now: Make a request for the values! – Then he makes the request, sends it to the wrong address, throws it into the wrong mail cabinet and wonders why the answer is not what he wants. Doesn't matter – we've learned how to get values from the Stronach team. That was also very instructive, I thank you for the most hearty!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17444	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17479	Mr President. Federal Minister! It is difficult to follow up this debate. But well, this tool case, which we decided there some time ago, was – and we criticized it at that time – too narrow in many areas. That's how we saw it. Now it turns out, there are also areas where this is quite too far-reaching, where one can say that the respective environmental councils have actually, I don't want to say, fool freedom, but they can do what one likes to do in the countries: Once again screw up, in return limit the car traffic, limit speeds to naturally deposit the desired person. But that's not supposed to be an accusation against you. This was meant well, and the law as such with the limit values for the various substances is well justified. To request the team Stronach: It's there from 19th and 20th. April the speech. I chose the weather report from this day: In the long term, the Italy-low Udo provided wet conditions, with a snowfall limit of 800 to 1,200 metres. So it was really what they say: There's been a lot of washing out. It was also a corresponding North-West wind. That means it normally shouldn't have been. Now I've looked at myself in the calendar. I also drove a little through the area, although otherwise I'd rather be a railway driver. I noticed similar things in Upper Austria at that time. If you want to drive from Steyr to Linz, you get through the Ebelsberger Berg more often. There is the mandatory “air-hunderter” in Upper Austria. On the return trip it is the same again, on Friday as on Saturday the “air-hunderter” is, although the substances should have been washed out. Now, of course, the question is: Why is that so? Why is that not the case in the Styria quoted by my colleague? Why, for example, is there nothing about the model preferred by the green colleague backer with the blocking times for cars, which is really limitable? Why does the Environment Council of the Environment Council, Kurzmann, put in place measures which have now also been classified as dazzling by the Chamber of Commerce, in agreement with the other parties? That is the colleague who is no longer here, written in the main book. I do not know, the farmer's association does not know yet, but it may speak within the group of the Chamber of Commerce also to the Farmers' Federation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schools.]] Why can he do that there? – Yes, because he responds extensively. He's not just claping a long-term hundred as we have in Upper Austria. He asks: Where do the substances come from? - They're not just from the bad drivers. They come from industry as well, they come from the fire of the house in winter, they come from the production of energy. It shall take appropriate measures everywhere. Then you have a package in the area of Graz or in the Styria at all, which is really very sensitive, where you can drive a little longer. To the cars: It also depends on how I measure and how I pass from this measuring regime to the speed regime. In Salzburg, Tyrol and Upper Austria you say: Now we measure once and then we turn off for a whole day or at least relatively long. It is documented how long then really goes on the highway of the hundreds. One thing you can certainly say: If the “air-hunderter” is enabled, then a few kilometers behind it is surely the executive with the laser gun. So it's not a "air-hunder", but a "money-hundred". That is what we can clearly criticize. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We know who deserves it. These “money hundreds” did not deserve the executive, the drivers did not deserve it, and the Minister did not deserve it either. Casing was not originally the intention of this law. There is a need to drill some of the ladies and gentlemen' environmental councils and the responsible cashiers. That's where we should sit. The fact is: In the Styria you have shown how it can work. This should be used as a model example for all of Austria. Anything else, this day-to-day blocking of the Tauern motorway or the Inntal motorway, is simply and simply a scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17527	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17549	Mr President. Minister! I am quite right in that we have a completely absurd debate. It's about four problems. Problem No. One is Mr Hagen, who has suffered. He told us how he suffered. Problem solution proposal: Get on the train! There you are in six hours in Vienna, actually faster than by car. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hagen: No, no, not at all! Eight hours!]] Problem number two: IG-air or the ‘air-hunderter’. The Minister has made this clear. We have an EU legislation. We all know that pollutants in the air affect people's health. That's a fact. In order to solve this problem, there is, among other things, the possibility of speed limitation in the care of the national leaders. This possibility has an objective side effect, namely better transport safety, especially when it rains. Well, so problem number two, IG-air, would be enforced. That's where I have to act. This is EU law, that is national law. I can't do that, even if it's uncomfortable with some of the drivers and some of them. Oh, my God! He should think about how many minutes he saves when he drives a little faster. There are calculations of this very controversial “air-hunder” story between Enns and Linz. It's not even half a minute. We often talk and argue for half a minute when it comes to speed from the driver perspective. That's not a problem in itself. That's ridiculous – half a minute. How often You half a minute with anything ridiculous? The problem number three is the answer to the question. Minister! You have expressed crediblely that the heads of state have not delivered, so you have not been able to answer. Okay, I'll take it from you. I assume you're not lying to us. However, I already see a need for action to ensure that the data is provided over a reasonable period of time, due to the transparency and perceptibility of the measure. Minister! Not least because of the pressure of suffering today, I expect you to talk to the national leaders in the conscience that they will transmit the data more quickly so that they can pursue a consistent, transparent environmental policy for human health. Now we come to the problem number four. I said there were four problems. The problem at number four is a general problem. It is the general problem of how to deal with Members' right of interaction. I am right, Mr Hagen. It is, in some cases, not in the specific case, but in other cases very well, so that ministers with very narrow answers, with non-information to the Members, withdraw from this right of interconnection. Sometimes they even lie, sometimes even saying the untruth. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hagen.]] I was also allowed to read this in the criminal police files during the investigation committee. Grasser didn't tell the truth. I know, Mr President, that I cannot use the word ‘lying’, even if the persons concerned are no longer in the House. He didn't tell the truth. It's one-to-one inside. This is a general democratic control problem. It is high time to discuss it passionately. We are now at the end of a legislative period. In the next legislative period, we need a different political culture when answering one question or another. I would even be in favour of ministers personally being held responsible for responding correctly and truthfully. [[Abg. Head: Also in the case of counterfeit committee protocols, Mrs Colleague!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – Yes, of course, just towards you. [[Abg. Head: Also in the case of counterfeit committee protocols! I mean it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] - Yes, if I do not violate laws. I do not force people to violate the Rules of Procedure, and no minister to violate laws. It must be done within the framework of: [[Abg. Head: to falsify a committee protocol as chairman!]] Mr. Klubobmann, you'll be at the speaker's desk soon, and you'll enjoy immunity. Other Running You again risk using my legal means. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What you're doing is unscrupulous. Do you need it? Last week you had a birthday. I congratulate you in retrospect! This week you are very subjective again. [[Abg. Head: What does “substantial ” mean? I'll just keep the mirror in front of you!]] Mr. Klubobmann! We can continue to discuss. [[Abg. Head: I'm just holding the mirror in front of you!]] [[Abg. Hoefinger: That's incredible!]] I have already concluded the discussion with the Minister for the Environment. I thought his answer was correct here. We have a certain problem, I have pointed out an abuse that the criminal police have declared. I referred to the law. I think that's what we're about to do with time.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17695	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17718	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! This Minister of State, Berlakovich, normally does not leave a fat cap. But this time I even have to protect him, because this request, as I mean, is really outside of any criticism. Mr Hagen, I think if you had asked the Minister of the Interior how many fines there were during this period, you would have received an answer. But one thing you have to say: How this Federal Government deals with the obligation to inform the Members is really more than worrying. Very briefly: That's about Tyrol. This is about the Inntal motorway, one of the most frequented motorways, not only in Austria but throughout Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] ==References====External links== In March 2013, one of the largest Tyrolean daily newspapers was entitled: ‘IG-L: Stable on the road. Curse, fight, get used to.” The stalk hits the population in the meat. This “air-hunderter” on the Inntal motorway arouses so many emotions in the population. [[Call the ÖVP: Did they cross an hedgehog, or how?]] No one understands. 70 percent of all pollutants come from transport in Tyrol, we know. But we also know that the IG-L has not contributed positively. Mr. Hörl, you will remember: Last year, because of this “air-hunderter” there was even a government crisis in Tyrol, because SPÖ Councillor Pupp called for it to be introduced permanently. Then Mr. Landeshupt said: The SPÖ is making a kneefall in front of Brussels, I will prevent that! But how does it see the population? – In winter it feels 100 percent enabled. You can drive whenever you want in any weather. We know there are some measuring points where passenger traffic is measured. We know that the weather is also taken into account. But no one understands how IG-L reacts. The population doesn't understand. Evil tongues even claim that these measuring points are when rising and descending, that exactly where the cars have to give gas is measured. No one understands that despite this hundredth the load has not decreased. [[Abg. Hagen: Now you have contradicted yourself!]] - I certainly didn't disagree. This is not the responsibility of the Minister, but the country of Tyrol alone. If you wanted to know more, you should have asked another address. In order to know how the citizens actually see this, I have looked at it in a forum today, where the citizens leave their opinion on the IG air. ==References== April someone writes: [[Call to the ÖVP: But that's been a long time, isn't it?]] I was fished from a civilian strip at 9:30 p.m. and was allowed to sheet. It was €70 because of too fast driving and €50 because of the Air Protection Act, so a total of €120. – I am not going to read the rest of the people of Tyrol anymore, because that would be, I believe, not usual in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] But we have to say something about how this federal government reacts to questions that are very much about. I have just submitted a request concerning the TIWAG. Mr. Hörl, listen! This is where the country of Tyrol has sold the entire TIWAG – 14 hydropower plants, many supply lines, everything – to American sharks in a so-called cross-board leasing business. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hörl.]] This is about double-digit billions. These are amounts that really interest the people of Tyrol. The fact that Finance Minister Fekter has the naughtiness to avoid any question is something that belongs here. [[Call the ÖVP: What you're eating oxygen!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] But the anger of a Member who has once received a criminal mandate in the Holy Land is also not worthy of the discussion. [[Abg. Hagen: That's an accompaniment!]] I am certainly not here to defend this federal government. But with all serenity: This federal government is thank God very soon at the end. The right of Members to receive an answer to certain questions also exists and must continue to exist in the future. This federal government does not have the right simply not to answer important questions and to avoid them everywhere.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17836	Stronach still has speaking time, yes. Please, Mr Hagen.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17858	I would just like to make it clear very briefly: It was always presented as if I had been driving through Tyrol too fast and had received a criminal mandate. - I don't have that! That's an incorrect statement. Mr Huber, you can take that back. Mr Weninger is supposed to take it back. I've been very correct and good driving. [[Call at the FPÖ:180 km/h is not too fast?]] I have only referred to this abuse which you all confirmed to me. That was the meaning and purpose of the request. It's gotten better now, I have to say it honestly. It's changed. With rain now is no more “air-hunder”. [[Call the ÖVP: You're stretching the Rules of Procedure!]] Those responsible have become aware that they are being looked at. That's very positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17900	There are no longer any words available for this purpose. The debate is closed. [[18:54:50]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17924	I will resume the negotiations on points 7 to 9 of the agenda. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e17948	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We shall continue on the agenda. We were on three agenda items. One is the new law on psychologists, to which we will give our approval, although, of course, I would like to comment on a few criticisms. Before I speak to the actual law, I would notice a few essential things that have happened around the law. Obviously, a professional group, namely the professional group of psychotherapists, has somehow faced a threat to their economy and has tried to prevent this law. It's basically okay when a professional group says a law doesn't please her. However, the way is already questionable. What remains in the end? – There were mass e-mails to delegates. Well, that's how we can all live, that's what we're used to. In this case, however, it was particularly unpleasant because there was no material criticism about it, so to speak, only about the procedure. There was a public demonstration that led to nothing but an insecurity of patients. There were patients who no longer knew whether that was right now, what they were doing, whether their treatment, which they started, could continue. I don't think that's all right with a group working in the health sector. I would like to stress that once again. I don't think it makes sense to burden the public with such things without having any substance. It was also people who asked us: What really happens now? Is this still going on? Do I have to change my therapist now? Can I stay there? I believe that the association of psychotherapists has not proved to be a good service to themselves, let alone his patient, but also not the matter in general. It then went so far that even e-mails were sent out, in which Members of the House were accused of having been corrupted. I believe that this is something which Members do not need to be told simply because they are a legislative matter for good or for not good. That should always be in the free choice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have therefore agreed to extend the agenda in the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection so that this law can also be dealt with. It has been negotiated over many years, i.e. decades. There has to be a degree now. I believe that this was also the right way to go when I remember that today all the political groups are in favour of it. The Association of Psychotherapists also sends out that he is almost grateful for this amendment and that he is pleased that his objections and technical arguments have been accepted. This could have been much cheaper without worrying the patients. This would have been possible from the beginning if one had really worked together properly and had not tried to do with any empty protests. I'm sorry about the shed milk it gave. Maybe porcelain's broken as well. Of course, this present law of psychologists is a compromise. Of course, there are things that could or should have been formulated more clearly – in the sense of the patients, however, and not because a professional group is afraid that you will be eaten the bread from the other. I think the market is big enough. In reality, the patient should always be at the centre. That is also the reason why we have looked through it very carefully. We voted against it in committee, subject to the content – we were unable to examine it in good time at that time. We will vote in favour of this law today. A second law, which is now coming to the vote, is the new law on midwives. We are particularly pleased that the midwives have now finally been taken into the mother-child passport as part of the mother-child-pass investigation. We will also agree with the Green amendment because I already believe that this is something important. At present it is true that, if the Investigation of the midwives, but not the so-called internal investigation, of the children's allowance is removed. I think you should really upgrade the midwives investigation so that it is also a sensible investigation. At present, it is only more of a kann-destination, I say now carefully. However, we will demand a separate vote at second reading, because we do not like this law, and that is the easier professional recognition for migrants and third-country nationals. I'm telling you exactly why. We obviously have a lack of midwives. But that's nothing new, we've had it for many years. Nevertheless, we make up far too few midwives. I have already mentioned this in committee. We have a total of six colleges that train midwives. In 2010, for example, 700 young women applied at the Vienna University of Applied Sciences, and 23 were taken. These 23 have completed their training last week or 15 of these 23 persons have completed the training. That's where I see a very, very great need for action, Minister of State: We have to train a lot more midwives ourselves. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is nice if we are now trying to fill out this lack of easier access from third countries, but I think there are many, many young women who would like to learn this profession very much. There is a good example for this: Last year, Vienna University of Applied Sciences introduced an additional course in autumn. It was written out only three weeks before, but still 300 women have reported, and only 23 have been taken again. You can add this to all six colleges, with training starting in Tyrol and Salzburg, for example, only every three years. That means we're making up a lot, far too little here. That is why we will not agree to the second reading. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] I am particularly pleased that the third request is accepted. Because it is an old call for me to also carry out a specialist examination by ENT doctors in the mother-child pass. I believe that this is a very, very essential point, which will benefit children, children at risk and their families in particular. I am really glad that we did this at the end of the period, so to speak, that the government parties still have an understanding here that this is a really important investigation. Of course, we agree with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18037	Mr Greenewald. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18058	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The subject of psychology has been scientifically differentiated in many subdisciplinaries in the last few years. This is also reflected in the practical application of psychology in everyday life. I therefore begin with a motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague, Mr Ollinger, and myself, which I am now reading: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, is asked to instruct the specialised departments of its ministries to prepare and draw up a draft regulation which clearly regulates the field of tasks and the professional image of workers and organisational psychologists. The aim is to draw up a template, which is agreed with the professional group, which may enter into force in the first half of 2014.’ I would like to thank Mr Oberhauser – who is unfortunately not here now – for her self-critical and balanced speech and for his thanks also to the opposition and to all those who have now worked together at the end. I see the comments made by Mr Rasinger and Mr Belakovich. It's not about distributing bread here. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: I didn't say that!]] It is about a criticism of about a hundred opinions, and one of them comes from the psychotherapists. And of these over a hundred opinions, far more than 80 percent are extremely critical and completely negative, including those of the Austrian Society for Psychology, colleague Rasinger. These are those institutes that teach psychology at the University, and even these say, it's not possible. The main association, on the other hand, has expressed its opinion, and the doctor's chamber – and the doctor's chamber protests a lot more often and fiercely – has even threatened naked patients. You've never criticized that. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: I only had 3 minutes!]] The university clinics for psychiatry and psychotherapy have protested, the state government of Vienna and many more. But no matter what. There's a formal thing: ==References== 6. was the end of the assessment period. The next day the Council of Ministers was scheduled, one day after that it was in the Health Committee. This is not fair to a serious dispute with the law. But I would like to highlight the background of this novel. The main association has published a study showing a massive care deficit in the mentally ill, a number of 900 000 people in need, who cannot even be provided with half of them in a professional way. It can be seen that the number of invalidity pensions is increasing for mental reasons, and also the number of days of illness from this group. The efforts of the cash registers to do anything here have not closed the supply gaps. There are considerable restraints for mental illness and non-responsible long waiting times. In the case of physical diseases, it would be unthinkable that there are coverts of benefits. Can I say in the event of physical illness that the money quota is out, we can't treat the next heart attack anymore? The next diabetes patient is no longer being treated because the quota is out? – This is a discrimination that is obvious. I often feel that in politics decisions fall quite quickly if you do not have the necessary expertise or do not strive for it. The less I know, the faster I'm willing to act and risk something. Three examples from the Ministry of Health, in time also before Minister Stöger: The question was about psychotherapy on a health certificate. The answer was: I don't want any woman with menstrual complaints to the psychoanalyst. - Great! In the absence of a child and adolescence is answered, it is only protected, which can also go to adult psychiatrists. And for fear of overtreatment it is said that all people have partner problems. – That means these problems are normal and do not have to be treated. That's not all funny, I have to say. Now something positive: There are 3,000 clinical psychologists who have a psychotherapist education, which is thorough, based on scientifically sound methods and is okay. If some of us write now, they make psychological science and choose building blocks of individual therapies, then that's not science. It's not a therapy, it's an experiment in a patient. And when psychotherapists and clinical psychologists defend themselves with therapeutic training, I understand very well. There is a psychotherapy law to which the National Council is obliged and which defines what psychotherapy is and what conditions there must be. Psychologists also benefit, and they deserve it because their education as health psychologists and clinical psychologists is significantly improved, both qualitatively and quantitatively. I think that's very good. People are familiar now and science is taken into account. And with Brötchenneid I can strangle any debate. It was about content, and the critical comments of more than a hundred more serious experts have only had the content and the formula on the subject, but never the bread.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18118	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18194	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes of speaking time are adjusted in a wishful manner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18215	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After more than twenty years, the novelle of the Psychologists Act is a necessary adjustment, especially as regards the legal framework, but also as regards the clarification of activities in the sense of better quality assurance for patients. There have been significant improvements in the core issues over the last few days, especially in the interest of psychotherapists. Today, we from the BZÖ will vote in favour of this novel of the Psychologists' Act, and of course I do not hide the fact that, as Mrs Oberhauser said, it was a turbulent phase, because, in the short term, one hour before the last committee, an overall amendment was tabled, in our view, a very undemocratic approach. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We therefore abstained and did not agree to it in committee. But as I said, I think it is in the interest of psychologists, in the interest of the psychotherapists, and it is an important and necessary step for patients. That is why we will also give our approval to this today. The other applications – midwives advice and the application of specialist studies on dental hygiene and also ENT studies – are two important further developments in the mother-child passport. We are particularly pleased as BZÖ, because we have just submitted x-times applications for a further development of the mother-child passport. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's right! It's very thick!]] We all know that the Mother-Child Pass is an excellent matter, but that much has changed in the youthful and childish life and you must not stop. So far, everything we said has been rejected. In particular, we have requested a development towards a parent-youth passport, which has been postponed and rejected. Now at least two things have been implemented, and we are very pleased by the BZÖ, especially as regards the advice of midwives. We have already introduced this in 2008, it has been repeatedly rejected, postponed. And now you react relatively late to an initiative we have made. It may also have required a petition, which also strongly supported the ÖVP, and that is why we have this result today. It's a real and good result. [[Abg. Head: We are the good!]] This gives rise to the hope that in the next legislative period one will really work on a total development of the mother-child passport to a parent-youth pass and not just before the end of the legislative period will set a few important milestones. We will also agree with the Green amendment proposal for midwives' advice, as well as with the one tabled by Mrs Greenewald for the specificisation of the field of work and organisational psychology, because we think that is also an important and necessary matter. . As I said, three decisions on the BZÖ's approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18271	It is the next honourable Member to speak. 3 minutes of speaking time are adjusted in a wishful manner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18293	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on the three agenda items that are being negotiated here under one. The law of psychologists, which dates back to 1990 – which was already mentioned by the previous speakers today – had a turbulent assessment phase. There's been a lot of protests. The previous speakers have done this. It already brings a little more clarity, but it does not bring a hundred percent clarity. But we are going to give this novel our approval today, because the improvements that have already been addressed outweigh, although I must say that it is not the final conclusion of wisdom and certainly not the last time they are changed. We very much welcome the two other legislative amendments – the midwife law and the child-care law and, on the other hand, the ENT prevention, i.e. the mandatory examinations at an ENT doctor in the mother-child pass. The law of midwives brings relief to women in pregnancy. They are supported, there are improvements. It is perhaps a wormhead drop that only one hour of consultation can be used between the 18 and 22. Pregnancy week. Of course, more hours would be more useful, but this one hour is better than nothing and a very welcome initiative. But what also presents a problem is financing, which is how far the cash rate is away from the reality of financing. An average consulting hour according to cash register contract costs €50, in which midwife coordination is charged €25, in free practices it is €75. Here, too, the point must be made that the health system needs to be changed to that effect, because it is precisely because unclear tariffs and opaque financing or tariffs or cash settlements are available and they also need to be removed and changed. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I also find it a shame that the dental examinations were not, as requested, taken up. A previous speaker has already mentioned it, and numerous applications have also been made concerning the further development of the mother-child passport to a parent-youth passport. Unfortunately, there has been no agreement by the representatives of the government parties over the last five years. But I am also confident that we will continue to develop the mother-child passport in the next legislative period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18344	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18365	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank the Members of the Committee on Health. I am grateful that it was possible to add the subject of Psychologists' Law to the agenda, and that we today, as I hear, can adopt this law unanimously. I would also like to thank Mr Oberhauser and Mr Rasinger, who, in advance, have been very committed to the fact that we are also discussing these issues properly. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, what is it about? – It is about people facing mental stress more in the future, so that we need individual therapy on the one hand, but on the other hand also the very clear psychological treatment of people living in a particular setting that concerns the issue of crisis intervention, that there are children living, for example, in an environment where there are diseases. For this to happen, psychologists need quality training, and we need a professional group in health care, which specialises in the fields of mental prevention. We achieve this with this new law of psychologists and we achieve this by strengthening the training and also strengthening the position of the trainees as a whole. I would like to thank you once again. In a second area of justice today, we have the possibility that midwives may also conduct discussions within the framework of the mother-child passport. This is a long-standing demand of midwives. This is also a call for many women who are pregnant. And so we can expand the mother-child pass by another performance. Several achievements have already been extended. I just remember that we are also making an HIV test, I remember that we are developing here too. This is another step, and this is in the interest of Austrian women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18405	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18426	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Appreciate High House! With the amendment of the Psychologists Act, an adjustment is being made after many years, an adjustment that has already been tried on many occasions, but only now has been implemented by our Federal Minister Alois Stöger. Congratulations! This adjustment, which also takes into account the requirements of training and addresses the current conditions of study and the definition of activities in the context of the profession, also ensures quality assurance for the protection of patients. Even though this draft law has been discussed in depth in advance – and that has been said more often – we can certainly find that the Psychologists Act has taken account of these discussions to the full and therefore no intervention in the activities of other health professions. I would like to express my thanks to the Liberal Party, which, with the approval of a two-thirds majority, has only enabled this item to be on the agenda today at the plenary session and can therefore be decided unanimously, as you have heard. I would also like to refer to the amendment of the Childcare Money Act to include midwives advice as a service under the Mother Child Pass Study Programme in the Childcare Money Act, which significantly extends prevention. I would like to mention that the services we have decided in Parliament are truly tangible in health care and health care. I am thinking, for example, of the recovery of the health insurance system, of the extension of the services of the local health telephone to the ambulatory, of early detection of breast cancer or of the hospital reform which has just been launched. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As you can see, this is mainly about editorial changes. I think that this amendment too will be adopted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18511	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18589	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18612	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a personal concern to bring in a few more sentences for midwife advice here. I would also like to thank the approximately 2,000 midwives throughout Austria for their work, which is not assessed in the case of Weitem as it is necessary and important. I think it was such a lucky case that we were able to achieve – also thanks to my colleague Anni Höllerer from the Committee on Petitions and, of course, also with the persistence of the midwives representative – that Mr Mitterlehner, who takes over two thirds of the costs from the family tax compensation, and also the legal health insurance companies have now agreed to this and that was introduced into the Health Committee. It is true that an hour is actually too little, but it is the first step, also towards preventing many imperial cuts, which, in my opinion, and also in the opinion of experts are not necessarily necessary. However, I also wish that in the new government there would be an accompaniment to this new law, or that an evaluation should be carried out to see how this access to the midwives will be. As Mr Ursula Haubner, whom I very much appreciate, said that it was rejected for years, I must say: Yes, I have sometimes found it very difficult to reject it again and again as committee chairman. But there may then be other forms in the next period – that one not only submits applications, but more often negotiates with one another; and I wish my successor or successor as a family speaker that he does not have to reject so much. In this sense: I am pleased that the midwives can now do this consultation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18655	Mr Dr. Karlsböck is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18677	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is no longer much to say about the Psychologists' Law – after 25 years at last, a law to which we can agree. I don't want to repeat to all the history. We will agree to the law. The second point in this conflict of law, which we are dealing with here, is the law of midwives. I would like to make a small criticism. The law states that the obligation to display training of midwives should be completely abolished. That actually contradicts the use. As part of the health reform, we are constantly talking about a quality survey through training and through monitoring and evaluation of the same. It is a bit illogical that this is taken out; and I understand that it is somehow also a disparity with other professional groups, namely doctors and other health professionals, which we will then deal with in the next item on the agenda. Another point that I personally care about is the story with the mother-child pass and the dental care examination in infants. That's a Proposal which we or I felt has been tabled ten times in this legislative period, which has been postponed. We are now voting on this. This application is a combined application. The anchoring of the ENT study in the mother-child pass is also a real step in the right direction. I cannot understand why the important concern of the dental examination does not come to the mother-child pass. In this context, of course, I would also like to mention, Mr Minister: You gave a press conference today or yesterday. The press release says: "As an important project for the future, the Minister of Health has made improvements in the field of dental health: “It can’t be that a person’s social status can be read at the bite. We want the best and most modern care for all regardless of their income.” This is almost written off by our broadcasts, but we support you a hundred percent. Only the words have to follow. And then you explain: “This is why we have expanded the performance of health insurance dental ambulators.” But that doesn't do anything with the mother-child-pass examinations! For you only have to understand one thing, ladies and gentlemen: One can argue about whether it makes sense to expand the performance of dental ambulatorys. We have already discussed this a lot, but one thing is certain: When it comes to cash benefits, dental ambulatorys require the same rates – according to the contract – as the established doctors. So don't do that. It then brings something to the so-called private services. That brings something, but it's a drop on the hot stone. Today, in dentistry, we have a contract that dates back to the 1950s. There too, movement should come in. Today we cannot operate and argue with things that come from a long time ago. In the 1950s, if I may remember, dental clamps were only perhaps known from far America, mouth hygiene did not exist, and nothing except amalgam. With such contracts we can no longer treat people in the sense of how you say it, best and most modern care. That's why my appeal, also for the next legislative period: This is an urgent need to remedy the problem. I can't spare you one either, Minister: They also said that the vaccinations have been extended. That's right, too. This has not been done to the extent that we would have wished, but after all, certain vaccinations have now been ingested and are paid. But a real wormhead drop is the so-called HPV vaccination. I would like to read a letter to you now or an e-mail that a young mother has written – I do it very briefly –: Vaccination against HPV viruses and cervical cancer is free throughout Europe, only in Austria you pay proud 600 €. Now imagine, you are a father of three daughters, 9, 11 and 16. Your wife has not found a suitable job since Karenz and you earn only €1500 net a month. How can one afford these vital vaccinations for the children? Women are laid at our heart by the doctors to be vaccinated between 9 and 25 years of age. Many doctors even vaccinate for free because they feel the price themselves too high. My friend has HPV viruses in it. I was not able to be vaccinated for financial reasons. Maybe that'll never give me kids. - Quote. So people see things! I can only appeal to you not to let these things fail in the cost and to include them as soon as possible and without major party disputes in a precautionary catalogue!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18756	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18777	Mr President. Minister! I would like to come back to the new midwife system, the mother-child passport. I can only join my previous speaker, Ridi Steibl, and I also welcome the fact that after long struggle there is at least a consultation by a midwife. That's, I think, very important. We all know – whether we are becoming fathers or already fathers and mothers, and also the fathers who are there at birth and experience this process – what an important role a midwife plays all this time. That is why I think it is a very important step towards upgrading the activity of midwives, it is an important step towards recognition of the activity. However, we would have wanted more, as did the midwives. I think there are many, many, many ways to involve the midwives even better, to give the midwives more research, to overreact, or to give the women, to the becoming mothers the choice, to decide which one or other examination should be made in the midwives. In fact, this is only about three investigations, because most of them have to be carried out by doctors anyway. At least there should be freedom of choice that a woman, a mother becoming, can decide whether she is going to her midwives, because she may also go to the birthplace with this midwive because she has much confidence in this midwive because the midwives at birth are usually longer to accompany the birth process significantly. I would therefore very much welcome it – we also make a request – if this freedom of choice for more research, including according to the mother-child passport, is given and the midwives are even more up-to-date and there is also the freedom of choice for women. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would be pleased if you supported this request. And, Minister, if it does not come about – which I fear – that this request will receive the majority, then I hope that, at least in the near future, we will work together to ensure that midwives are upgraded, also in the sense of more advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18836	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e18900	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteurs want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft Psychologists Act 2013 in 2572 of the Supplements. Hiezu has tabled an amendment by Dr Oberhauser, Dr Rasinger, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. We come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Dr Oberhauser, Dr. Rasinger, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues, who have the content of the amendment to Sections 22, 31, 46 and 48. Whoever joins these changes, I'm looking for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall immediately vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and its title, taking into account the amendment tabled by Dr Oberhauser, Dr. Rasinger, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues – and received the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall come to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to be a sign of approval. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Greenewald, colleagues on the inclusion of work and organisational psychology in the Psychologists' Act. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a signal. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Draft federal law, which amends the law of midwives and the Childcare Act, in 2398 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and by the request for separate vote, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 Z 16 to 19 and 31 as amended by the Government template. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 2 Z 1 inserted. If you're right, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I would like to ask those members of the House who have given their approval here for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here for their approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to be a sign of approval. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 9: the resolution attached to the Committee's report 2554 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 315.) [[19:37:51]] 10. Point Health Committee report on the government template (2445, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, which amends the Federal Law on the Registration of Health Professions (GBRegG) and amends the Health and Occupational Care Act (2555 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 2307/A(E) by Ursula Haubner and colleagues on the rapid implementation of the health profession registration by the over-company representation of the relevant health professional organisations (2556, e.g.) 12. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 2328/A(E) by Dr Kurt Grünewald, Members of Parliament on health professionals' registers by means of over-company representatives (2557 d.b.) 13. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 2324/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on health profession registration by MTD-Austria (2558 d.b.) 14. Point Health Committee report on the government template (2444, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Health and Hospital Care Act (GuKG-Novelle 2013) and amending the MTD Act (MTD-Law-Novelle 2013) (2559 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19101	We now come to points 10 to 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. It is the first Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19128	Mr President. Federal Minister! Yes, both the health professions and the up-to-date medical and technical services have long wanted themselves to be registered, even in the sense of quality assurance. With the example of the elevated medical and technical services, it was true that many years ago they repeatedly pointed out that they would like to do so, in their own initiative and also with the help of investment, they have created their own list of money here and would have liked this list to be managed professionally. I know you, Mr. Federal Minister, have been of the opinion from the outset that this should be settled at the Chamber of Workers – despite the resistance of professional associations. However, in this case I must say that the professional associations were particularly disappointed by the ÖVP health spokesman Rasinger. Mr. Rasinger, you still have on 21. In a meeting here in the house, which took place together with the coalition partner, June said that you will vote against it and that it will not come so to speak with you. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Hey!]] And you've still let down the professional associations, so to speak. I find that especially perfide now, because one thing was clear: The Federal Minister, including his group, has always worked for the Chamber of Workers. But you, Mr Rasinger, have obviously let in the professional associations quite, and I think that is relatively unfair. Of course, they have weighed themselves in safety and then found out an hour before the start of the committee – that was a few days, not even a whole week later – that you jointly submit an amendment request that registration be made at the Chamber of Labour. Honestly, I don't quite understand. You should have played with open cards from the beginning, you should have said that you don't, you don't want to, no matter what. We have heard from the committee that this is only the case with the Chamber of Labour, because there is authority there. I am of the opinion, in spite of all the above, that one could have continued to sit down and perhaps find a more satisfactory solution, one that is not now facing the professional associations, both the health professions and the MTD Austria, because they have never really wanted and rejected it. And from this rejection, it was also true that they have repeatedly turned to opposition parties, from which the various oppositional applications, which are now included in this agenda item, have also come. So, overall, Mr Federal Minister, I am sorry that we have not been negotiating here a little longer. I think it might have been possible to find a satisfactory solution for those affected. In any case, we will not give our vote to the bill. We are still of the opinion that we should continue to negotiate here. I think even if you decide today, that'll cost a lot of money. It's not that it's all for nothing. It's very bad. Perhaps you can decide again or consider whether you could not find an optimization of the situation together with the associations.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19165	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19186	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For 14 years we are negotiating on the registration of health professions, the non-medical health professions. So I think talking has been enough. It's no secret, we've been in the opinion for a long time, it belongs, if registered, to the working class. This still results from a story, I now say, where perhaps no one can do anything for it now, because it is 14 years ago, from a time when under Maria Rauch-Kallat there was a concern that each professional group would be organized in its own professional chamber. Of the trade unionists, some, Mr Hable and Mr Zellhofer, from the Department of Health Services Association, have started to say at the top of the gallery: We do not want chamber formation, we do not want to have a fragmentation of the professional groups, but we want a registration in a large organization that has the know-how, but also the structural possibilities to carry out this registration! Structural possibilities therefore – no secret – because the workers' chambers have offices, regional offices where it is possible to do this registration relatively quickly and uncomplicated. The big protests of the associations, which started a voluntary registration years ago, all of us received an e-mail. What we didn't get: These emails didn't go to us. I am of the opinion that if one can prevent us from pouring e-mails, then these were the mails of trade unionists who wrote very well to Rudi Kaske and to the Chamber of Labour, that they would like it very urgently, namely the workers in the medical and technical services, that at the Chamber of Labour ...................................................................................................................................................................... This has very simple reasons: It costs the members and also the non-members, namely the self-employed and the self-employed, nothing, the costs are significantly lower and the service is better than the associations. It is always said that the associations have been left unclear. Mrs Belakovich, I cannot imagine this insofar as Mrs Colleague, who has fought very vehemently for the registration of the whole of the MTD-Austria, has certainly also been informed. We too have kept close contact with the associations in the question of how we are dealing with this matter as constructively as possible in the interests of our fellow Members. Nevertheless, I believe that the step we now have is a binding registration for all non-medical health professions, health and nursing professions, such as medical and technical professions, in the Chamber of Labour. A journalist from the “Kurier” – I have just read – who obviously already knows in a wise perspective how this will all happen today, and who has said that we are creating here a “Lex Burgstaller”, I would like to say that registration is a national registration, where individual people in individual workers’ chambers are dealing with it – that may be the colleague Burgstaller in Salzburg, that will be someone else in other countries and regions. For a “Lex Burgstaller” we certainly didn’t do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19231	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19253	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Over the past decades, the MTD-Austria Association and the Health and Health Care Association have set up an extremely diligent and professional initiative to register, to engage in training, training and training, and have done significant work there. The one professional group has at least 20 000 members and the health and health care professions 100 000. So that's significantly more than twice as much as there are doctors in the doctor's room. That is, they contribute significantly to a functioning health system, and their work and their labor, which has been done free of charge, mostly volunteering, is now somehow bruising. It is not at all against the Chamber of Workers, which I estimate extremely, it is simply about hearing these people, appreciating their merits and looking for a solution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I now take a position for your ministry, not for this draft, but for the ministry and its competences. I would be right if all health professions were in the field of competence of the Ministry of Health. And you argued that we can't afford to do that, we don't have this money to register. Then, together in Parliament, we should try to ensure that the health resort has the means to keep the health professions. We know that the Chamber of Commerce wants many health professions as a training profession, wants apprentices. And if this continues, they will be filleted piece by piece, with the Chamber of Workers or without the Chamber of Workers. We will therefore not agree with that and, so to speak, we will choose the smaller evil to bring in at least one amendment. The National Council wants to decide: ‘Article 1 reads as follows: 1 of the first half-set – I say half-set now, otherwise the German sounds disastrous –: “For matters of registration of health professions under this Federal Act are at the Federal Ministry of Health” Reasons To prevent the mixing of the tasks of the Registration Authority and the Registration Advisory Board, a anchoring of the Registration Advisory Boards at the Federal Ministry of Health makes sense.” They can make a number of things further through regulations, first directives on the recognition of training in accordance with professional regulations and second more detailed provisions on the completion of registration. But what I would like to do is to guarantee a minimum level of training in these professional groups. This requires both MTD-Austria and health and nursing professions. They currently have – I have to write it down now – set 100 points in three years or in five years 160 as an international standard. I'd very much like to ask you: If the people concerned want this and have this honour to guarantee the best possible training, training and training, we should not let them in! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19325	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19379	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19401	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! This Register of Health Regulation covers 20,000 members of the Medical and Technical Service and 80 000 members of the care professions, thus a total of 100 000 people, about a third of those working in health services in Austria. Registration was required by an EU standard. The opinions on this – which I say openly – were extremely divergent. And I'll tell you openly, too. Politics is the art of the possible. I can't force anyone to be lucky. I can't force the coalition partner either. I believe that in the end, a compromise has come out that is portable as my person reaches. We have created two advisory councils, namely for the care and for the MTD; they are different. We have greatly upgraded the role of professionals. De facto cannot be decided against. The crucial point is how you live such a thing. What would not have been consistent would have been our own chambers. It was also not consistent to have registration with the professional groups themselves. In this way, this is a compromise, and a compromise never means 100 percent. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This will ensure that the cost burden is kept within a manageable framework, i.e. as low as possible. In this sense, I hope that the law will be lived as planned, namely that the health professions will actively cooperate in the bodies and that as much as possible quality assurance and training et cetera will be ensured. You're invited.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19474	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19541	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19563	Mr President. Minister! High house! In our request we require the registration of health professions by the MTD-Austria. To this end, MTD-Austria has created the necessary structures with MTD-Register GmbH. But not the MTD register, but the AK is to perform registration in the future. This is an absolutely absurd and unacceptable project. The Chamber of Labour represents workers and not freelance workers or employers. However, 50 percent of MTD members are self-employed. They rightly do not want their personal data to be managed by a body that is neither professional nor professional. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The primary purpose of a professional list is undoubtedly to ensure quality. This cannot guarantee the Chamber of Labour for lack of competence. The Government Programme 2008 to 2013 includes the following measures in the Health Chapter for Health Workers: The registration of the professional and the training completed and the issue of professional certificates shall be subject to the existing over-company representations. Therefore, in the expectation of a legal order, the MTD-Austria has created the necessary structures as an over-company representative with MTD-Register GmbH in order to implement the government programme quickly. Currently, one has to say, 50 percent of members and non-members are already registered with the MTD registry. Interesting is the legislative procedure: ==References== ==References====External links== ==References== A ministerial draft with a review period of only two weeks will be sent by the Ministry of Health on May. At that time, the Minister refused all the talks with the professional associations and did not comment on several letters from them. The decision will then be taken in the Council of Ministers. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== In June, amendments shall be sent to the opposition parties by e-mail one hour before the start of the committee. This procedure is to a great extent scandalous. Since the failed head of state in Salzburg is to be entrusted with the management of the registration office in the Chamber of Labour, it is likely that this procedure and registration by the Chamber of Labour in the job creation are justified for the woman Burgstaller. And that is highly objectionable in my eyes. [[Complementary of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] [[Abg. May. Lap: You have no idea!]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us refer this dubious bill back to the Health Committee so that it can be adequately treated there with the professional associations concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19613	The next item is the speech by Mr Haberzettl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19635	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! I believe that we have common access to the health profession register law: that registration is necessary for quality safety reasons. It has been done on a voluntary basis so far, is now raised on a legal basis. The question of who makes registration has been very deep in the club, the government has been very busy, and I think that after a very careful consideration, this decision has been as pleased as it is now. Mr Spadiut! I would like to say to you that I cannot understand the 50/50 assessment of employment relations. There is a clear overhang of workers' contracts and contracts similar to employees' contracts. We have seen much less self-employed employment in this sector. I would like to make a further amendment on this subject, which aims to increase transparency even more: [[Quoted print version removed]] Since it will also be the last act on the speaker's desk today, I would like to draw a summary about the relatively short time – compared to others – here over my presence. Then the emotion, if you want to do so, from the beginning phase, from the willingness to get some together, to deep material and technical discussions, including discussions that, I think, have always gone on a cultivated level, until finally – today the best example in the urgent request – to discussions that were already very marked by cheerfulness – in order not to use other expressions. However, I would also like to use this opportunity to thank those people who are very important at the beginning of parliamentary activity. These are the employees in the individual parliamentary clubs and also the employees of this house, who in the end always have competent and competent information and information are available. The next time is likely to bring huge challenges to Austria as a result of global development. I believe that this country has the power to master these challenges. All those who will continue to work here in the next legislative period have the political mandate to create the framework conditions for this. I wish you a lot of strength and success for this activity.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19715	All of you can say good-bye. The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Lugar. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19739	Mr President. High house! We will also reject this law, which is because there was no need at all to move the health professions, which have been registered by the associations so far – which was made very, very good by the hearing – now almost to the Chamber of Workers. As we have heard today, there is too little know-how. There are many self-employed people in the health professions. And it is also necessary to have a lot of expertise, especially when it comes to training courses and the recognition of them. And this knowledge is lacking in the Chamber of Workers, this knowledge cannot be there at all. But there is this knowledge among the associations. And there is no reason at all to withdraw the registration from the associations and transfer it to the Chamber of Workers, except – and this is the only reason – that additional revenue should be recovered again and that the Chamber of Labour will gain a new field of revenue and, of course, it will also be able to influence it. And we reject that. That is why I would ask you to refer this matter back to committee and see if it would not be more reasonable to use the existing structures. No one can tell me that if there is already a registration office that has already successfully handled the procedure, it should suddenly be cheaper at the Chamber of Workers. No one can explain this to me if there is no complete expertise and, of course, the corresponding programmes. That is to say, it is again about influence and financial resources that are to be managed there. And we deeply reject that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19773	I also welcome the adequate support and negotiation of the amendment tabled by Mr Haberzettl. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19827	Mr Stöger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19848	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I particularly welcome the representatives of the Section's Association for Health and Social Affairs, which are present here. This is an association representing nearly 80,000 people working daily in health care. And all the professional groups have told me several times about various institutions that they want to be registered, as it is a concern for them to ensure quality in their professional group. I would like to thank you for the fact that these health care professionals are often undervalued, but they do very good work every day. It is about strengthening quality, ensuring quality and strengthening the professional groups, especially in health and health care and in medical and technical services, but also in the overall field of health care. I have decided – and this has been done quite consciously, as the government programme provides – that registration should be carried out by the over-company representation of interests. And there is only a legal over-company representation of these professional groups. This is simply the Federal Chamber of Labour. That is why I have decided that this institution, the Federal Chamber of Labour, which has passed on Austria, which has existed since 1920, to which other countries also envy us, will register. The professional groups have the opportunity in this Federal Chamber of Labour to submit their position of professional competence. One will negotiate with and support the groups. They have also been given a seat and a vote in the Registration Advisory Board. From my point of view, it is also important to point out that the Federal Chamber of Labour is of course active in this matter in the transferred field of activity and is also bound by instructions from the Federal Minister. As far as the motion for a resolution is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is quite clear: This variant has led to their being the simplest regulation for professional group members, which is why the costs are the least. I assume – and it is so – that there will be no cost compensation to the Chamber of Labour. I would like to address a second law, namely the amendment of the Health and Hospital Care Act, where we ensure that in the future, those in these health professions can also do family training, that patients can also be depended on by the nursing care, how to deal with certain issues in the daily life, that care information can be passed on to them. So far, the doctors have been reserved. In practice, it has been found that doctors often had little time to do so, that they sometimes did not have the experience of caring. Now it is also possible, in addition to the doctors, that this activity is carried out by the health and nursing professions. In this sense, we have, in turn, made a contribution to strengthening primary care in Austria, which is a clear objective of the health reform: improve quality and strengthen primary supply.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19897	The next item is the report by Mrs Lamassoure. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19918	Mr President. Minister of Health! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Oberhauser has already said that it has been a long history. It was almost an infinite story. Sometimes endless stories have a happy end. This time, I would say, there might have been a happy end for one, for professional associations there has certainly not been a happy end. That we want the health register, which is one policy and professional associations: policy on the one hand, because it is a control instrument in health policy. And for professional associations it was always very important – that has already been said – because of training and further training. So: It is always about quality assurance and patient safety. For professional associations, it is not possible to engage in professional abuses. And for patients it is about knowing that the therapist, the therapist or the caregiver, the caregiver who treats them, are also capable and entitled to do so. - So far, so good. So that's what gave us. What we didn't think of from the beginning was the place of registration. We – and I speak here as a physiotherapist for MTD Australia – have always said that we want to do it ourselves, because we can do it as well. And we have just founded this MTD-Register GmbH eight years ago. 11 500 professionals have voluntarily registered. There is a completely finished system with which you can actually start doing something today, because it is already there. At a time when democracy is concerned with more direct democracy, I personally find it a pity when professional associations, professional groups are being overrun and their desire is not met. I would, however, like to express my express thanks to Mr Erwin Rasinger, who has done so, so to speak, in the sense of the limitation of damages, from my point of view, that: At least the Advisory Board is so up-to-date that, if everyone sticks to it and if there are no tricks, professional associations cannot be overrun. As I have already said in the Committee on Health, I will not vote in favour of this draft law. There will be an agreement to the MTD law novelle. This can also be seen in terms of patient safety. This is also about adapting to EU standards. That is to say, I will give my approval to the MTD law novelle, but not to the health profession register law.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19963	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Karlsböck. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e19985	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is no question that we have been at the heart of the health profession register law since the beginning, because this was also provided for in the government agreement. Of course, the efforts of professionals, such as doctors, midwives and several other professions to register themselves, are something that is of great support – and what, as I said, is also in the government programme. It was also true that, pending this legal order, the MTD-Austria has become active here as an over-company representative, has already introduced its own register and has already begun training measures and everything that belongs to it. That is why it seems completely incomprehensible that this law was then sent in review as a ministerial draft. Because, Mr Minister, it is simply that a driving over a professional group or a professional group, as in this case, is not Usus, and is actually something of an immeasurable kind. And not only that, but also from the point of view, it is true that in this whole group not only the caregivers and employees, but also professional logos and whatever are affected, are included. These are freelancers – and they are now registered with the Chamber of Workers. This is a contradiction in itself! And if you say, well, because the stop has existed since the 1920s, then you could say just as fluffily, the ÖAMTC or the ARBÖ may also have existed since that time and they also have outposts, so we can register them there too. - So that's a joke. We are strictly opposed to this! I'm just quoting from one opinion. In it is written: The question arises: Should it be a binding health profession register with a constitutional effect or not? In other words, only if you are registered in the register after the statutory requirement is met can you exercise your profession. The aim would be to create legal certainty for professionals, patients and service providers. However, the present draft law does not provide the basis for the constitutional effect of the professional register. - Quote. This cannot be read from the government template. In addition, you have to say – and this is really a bad side-taste – that you have the impression that there are to be created your own posts, your own new departments within the Chamber of Labour, where politicians who have been very unsuccessful elsewhere are then put in place. We're talking about Salzburg, we're talking by the former head of state Burgstaller. This also stands in the “Kurier” big inside today: “Pflegs, nurses and physiotherapists” wander “to AK”. One speaks of a “Lex Burgstaller”. What surprises me at all is the agreement of your party, the ÖVP, where there is obviously massive resistance, not only on the side of the speaker, the valued colleague, who has now spoken before me, but also on the sides of Othmar Karas, who has expressed massive resistance as the president of the relief work, speaks of a “bureaucracy sample” and so on. It gives us the impression that this is somehow such an amigo story: The political “owners” are being given new opportunities here – against the interests of the professional group in this regard. And that's why we can't go there. A second law is also being discussed in this convolut. This is a change of the Health and Hospital Care Act and the MTD Act. To this end, I would just like to say: It is about things that, when they are taught by qualified staff or arranged by doctors, can be done, in the hierarchy, by trained assistants, if you want to, mostly by relatives of needy patients. And these find in this law a catalog of things that can be done in this way, for example: Administration of medicinal products, injections, preparation and connection of infusions, blood withdrawals and the like. But one point in this list goes too far, namely the laying of stomach sins. We have already decided on this in committee. That's what it said, that's an error - no matter what - that's going to be changed. I didn't hear about it today. That's why we reject it. Personally, as a doctor, this goes too far that wrong-trained forces can lay stomach probes. All those of us who are medically active know that this can be dangerous. I do not want to paint the devil on the wall now, but, as I said, there must be a change in some form. It's too far from me all over the story. That is why we cannot agree with that in this form. Finally, something: What has made me very strange today is a kind of concept of democracy, as it has been expressed from the Chamber of Workers, from the union. Today, in a long discussion, we have also defended the trade union against unjustified attacks, but I find it a bit harsh, namely: At 12.33 p.m., a broadcast of the Chairman of the Federal Office for Health and Social Affairs of the GÖD, Johann Hable, came out: This ‘welcomes the decision just adopted by the National Council to register non-medical health professions’. We now have 8.16 a.m. – and we speak on this issue of 12.33 p.m. This is a concept of democracy that does not inform me – I tell you quite honestly – because we are not a sausagebude here, but we are still the ones who decide these things. And you can say now, actually, it's still meaty Yes, yes, I know, it's all okay anyway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] We're just a Kasperlverein here, and he'll have to deal with something like this, but you've been out of it for a long time. In the last consequence, we decide here, even if, of course, it is agreed in reality and is already decided in the committees. But that's what's going on. I really don't think so. This is a very, very bad look and harms the democratic reputation of our institution.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20070	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20091	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! In contrast to my previous speaker, we welcome the improvements in the care sector, we have also made massive efforts to do so. Why? – Have you thought about who you want to be cared for by once that becomes necessary? In the home or perhaps in the family? – So, for example, I would rather be cared for by my husband, but he certainly needed support, professional help. And that is exactly where the new regulation we want to adopt today is to be achieved. We want to enable training for family members through qualified nursing staff. This helps both the caregivers and the caregivers. And how does it work? – The qualified nursing staff will teach the caregivers how to carry out medically ordered activities properly. There was already the talk of putting the syringes, changing the association and much more. It is crucial – and this gives us the security, Mr Karlsböck: Everything will be done under medical responsibility. The aim is to give the caregivers as much support as possible. That is what we want, and this is what most of the seniors who come to us and present to us their wishes. Tomorrow we will decide to make further major improvements – I hope I do not want to go ahead with this – namely the care leave and the care part-time, again great steps to unite family care on the one hand and job on the other. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20129	Mrs Haubner has just spoken as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20150	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is not an improvement for caregivers, as Mrs Aubauer said, but it is simply a professional register for health professionals, for health care and health professionals, a professional register to which we stand a hundred percent – that is to be led – but for us it is incomprehensible why we do not leave it among professional associations. These are professional associations – and I join in the remarks made by the colleague – which have shown in recent years that they can provide benefits that already 11 500 have been voluntarily registered. And now, at once, one is driving over it, does not even hear the concerns of professional associations, does not even take note of the critical comments, but makes a law with a two-week review period. – I remember: Just the SPÖ was in former times, different governments have always been very critical if there has been only a two-week review period. So you just go over that. It is also not an overall concept for me as far as professional registration is concerned. The psychologists are led differently: They are not at the Chamber of Workers, but they are led over the GOGs. – So this is a law where I wonder: What are you doing? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The answer I can give for the BZÖ is: It is about extending the chamber state again, giving the Federal Chamber of Labour additional functions, expanding compulsory membership, and finally creating supply posts. For here you will need more staff – and there will certainly be other politicians of red and black next to Mrs Burgstaller, who need to be provided. Ladies and gentlemen! It can't be. We will, of course, not give our approval to this, as the colleague from the relief agency, Mr Karas, said, bureaucracy samples. Now that you're talking to the councils: Everything is right and beautiful, but if you look at how the Advisory Boards are put together again, then the trade unionists there - they represent the majority - and then there are also a few professional group members. Or: If you are now putting forward motions for resolutions on the cost, that is the best thing at all. So this is not yet clear how the costs are regulated if you now have to make a motion for a resolution. Or: that professional associations are displayed on their own website. – These are all things where you can only say: a hush-fush law. But in the end, it's about retaining power in an area that you want to further expand, where politics and the proporz celebrate joyful originals. That is why we would like to see this law discussed again in a serious way through this professional register. I have heard from a number of previous speakers that it would be good to consult the Committee once again on referring back to the Committee, starting from the outset and including those who are concerned. Therefore, the BZÖ has also submitted two referral requests, one relating to the health profession register law, and the other concerning the Federal Act amending the Health and Hospital Care Act, the GKG-Novelle 2013 and the MTD-Law-Novelle 2013. I would ask that these requests be approved so that it is possible for us to take a unanimous decision here, too, on what the professional register management is about to do. But my hope is very low that this will still happen today.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20220	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote. On item 10 there is a referral request by Ursula Haubner and colleagues. Therefore, I would like to begin by voting on the draft federal law, which lays down the Federal Act on the Registration of Health Professions and amends the Health and Hospital Care Act, in 2555 of the Supplements to the Health Committee. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. On agenda item 14 there is also a referral request by Ursula Haubner and colleagues. I am therefore voting on the draft federal law amending the Health and Hospital Care Act, which amends the MTD Act, together with the title and receipt in 2559 of the Supplements to the Health Committee. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Draft federal law which amends the Federal Law on the Registration of Health Professions and amends the Health and Hospital Care Act in 2555 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment tabled by Mr Oberhauser, Mr Rasinger, colleagues and a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Greenewald, colleagues. I shall therefore first of all vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the amendments referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of Parliament Dr. Oberhauser, Dr. Rasinger, colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(5). I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is accepted by a majority. The Members of Parliament, Dr. Grünewald, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(13). Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here for their approval. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to be a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Oberhauser, Dr Rasinger, colleagues in the field of health professions. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 316.) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 2556 of the supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 2557 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 2558 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Draft Federal Act amending the Health and Hospital Care Act and amending the MTD Act, including the title and receipt in 2559 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, for a sign. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:28:48]] 15. Point Health Committee report on the government template (2446, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Medicines Act, the Introductory Act 2010, the tissue safety law, the prescription law and the Health and Nutritional Safety Act (2560 d.b.) 16. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 2327/A(E) by Dr Wolfgang Spadiut, colleague and colleagues on improving the situation of chronic pain patients in Austria (2561 d.b.) 17. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (2377, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Wage Cash Act 2002 (2562 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment No 2135/A(E) by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the introduction of a health bonus (2563 d.a.) 19. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 2306/A(E) by Dr Ruperta Lichtenecker, colleagues, on the abolition of the cost of the Social Insurance Institute of the Industrial Economy (SVA) (2564 d.b.) 20. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 2030/A(E) by Mr Tanja Windbüchler-Souschill, Members and colleagues on the free movement of condoms for young people up to the age of 18 (256) 21. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 2346/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues, on the extension of the staff of Thalidomide and Contergan victims (2566, e.g.) 22. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment No 2290/A(E) by Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues on the upgrading of the general physician (2567 d.B.) 23. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 2347/A(E) by Dr Andreas Karlsböck, colleagues on the concept of health (2568 d.b.) 24. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment 1070/A(E) by Mr Tanja Windbüchler-Sushill, Members and colleagues on the protection of children and young people from tobacco consumption and its negative health consequences (2569, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20518	We come to points 15 to 24 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dr Karlsböck spoke. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20547	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the last five years – it is more or less the last time we meet in a regular session – we have had a common goal, namely the maintenance and further development of the Austrian health system, as the health system, according to all surveys, is the most important of the Austrians. The fact that we have different approaches is obvious. The only important thing in this whole story is who's right under the line. Unfortunately, many things are right, we have to say that we have to keep because we unfortunately have a rapid increase in under-supply, in cases of maladministration in the Austrian health system. An example: Mr Minister, a press release of the last few days concerns the General Hospital and, above all, radiation therapy. In this area, radiation therapy in the AKH has said that we simply have too few doctors to maintain the operation, and they simply and simply stop accepting new patients, at least for some time. This means that there are now endless waiting times. It can be devastating in cancer therapy. But endless waiting times exist not only in the AKH, but also in the federal states. There are at least 18 devices missing in Austria that could guarantee the supply. According to the Health Act, which we have recently adopted, the financing of health is linked to economic growth, which makes the forecasts extremely uncertain. Just these devices are very expensive, just these things are very intense. And it is shown here by this example that we are not going into a good future. The conclusion of this issue is that it would be bizarre that the successes of early diagnosis would be played in many areas, including mammography, which is now being built up laboriously, then by a delay in therapy. And that's actually the wrong way. In other words, we need an increase in resources in this area. The second negative example is the closure of the Lorenz Böhler accident hospital in Vienna at night. That's just saying we're too few doctors, we lock up between 22 and 6 o'clock for normal emergencies, which can go on with the rescue. But if someone breaks a foot, hugs his finger or anything, then he has to go somewhere else. The fact that the other hospitals of the municipality of Vienna, where there is an accident department, are equally or even more overburdened, is not seen and works according to the Floriani principle. The fact is that there is a subsidy in this area. Then Red Cross in Styria, this week too. The health insurance fund simply cancels the contract with the Red Cross. It's supposed to stop people driving the taxi and then file the bill. These are states which are not worthy of a republic like ours! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not even want to talk about the remaining self-holds that we simply do not get away with. You say you are celebrating a celebration when the self-preservations are gone, and Parliament should decide. We are at it, Minister, we are even preparing the feast for you. We want to have ridded ourselves in those areas where they are unsocial and which hinder down-to-earth access, in particular, to medical services of the weaker. In addition, we also recognise that it is becoming increasingly difficult to occupy specialist doctors in the country in particular. It is also becoming increasingly difficult to occupy gyms, training centres, also specialist offices in hospitals, in the departments. That's going on now. It was actually inconceivable at my time that such developments would come into play. You're just there. And it just has to be countered here. How can you counter it relatively simply? – It is necessary, above all, to relieve the doctors in hospitals, but also in practice of this administrative madness, of administrative work. But what are you doing? – They make a press conference and say that next step of health reform has been decided, and from 2014 all services in the outpatient field will be pseudonymised to the federal government. That's just a small sentence. This, of course, also results in an increase in quality, I understand. However, need be You'll get people first if you want to decide something like that. In the present state it means that we simply have another bloating of this entire device and it will become more and more difficult for the doctors in the hospitals to work there. Our old topic, and we will not get away with it: We need to put together health insurance funds. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the turn and go. I don't understand at all why there is such a resistance. We must allow the doctors to organize themselves in the form that they can employ themselves. There is also a blockade on your part. This would mean a steering of patient flows from hospitals to free practice. In summary, I would like to say that the patients are the sufferers in this whole system. What does that mean for patients? – It means that the doctors have too little time both in hospitals, in the ambulances and in the ordinations. It means long waiting times both in the ambulances and in the ordinations. And it means, above all, poor care in the settled area, because the doctors can't work more than 70 hours. Especially in the weekend, on holidays or in the evening we find, I am also a patient, not a doctor. We're going to ambulances. And there, too, it is becoming increasingly difficult to find an efficient supply. That is why, Minister, I would like to tell you that we need to work on it. Mr Minister, we have also disputed our struggles here. It should really be one of the last meetings where we come together. You hear it directly and indirectly that next time you're not going to be a minister. I would therefore like to wish you every good for your personal, personal and professional way.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20629	The next speaker was Mrs Bayr. 3 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20651	Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to my previous speaker, I am looking forward to working with Mr Stöger in the next legislative period, because I believe he is really doing very well. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Sexuality and sexual experience play a very, very important role in the lives of all young people. It is therefore particularly important that we: Take responsibility as a society for the fact that young people receive relevant information based on facts and not on myths. It is about giving young people confidence in sexuality that they know, for example, that they can reject unwanted sexual contacts with vehemence, knowing that the children and young people do not protect against abuse, even if they have enjoyed such a good sexual education that they can insist that contraceptions are used, that they also know what contraceptions exist, how they work, how to use them et cetera. It is important that young people do not necessarily put themselves under pressure to pursue supposed sexual ideals, which in part distorts and alienates themselves over the Internet and in some cases generate very, very, very great expectations or pressures. That's not the point at all. But of course, a modern sex education is primarily about the fact that young people can have fun and experience fear-free sexuality. I believe that sex education is very important both in school and in non-school, and as well as all the experts tell us that it is necessary to do so in school with experts who are not teachers and teachers, but who come from outside, because it is only there that there is some taboo questions that can be asked in some way taboo. All experts assume that it is useful if there is the possibility of separating gender specific, though not necessarily separateing. But if there is a desire to discuss this more closely within the boys or within the girls, then of course it is useful to be able to do so in order to be able to really ask taboo questions – questions that focus on young people in particular on pregnancy, pregnancy prevention, prevention of sexually transmitted infections and similar things. As important as access to information is, of course, affordable and durable access to contraceptives. Both information and access to contraception are one of the sexual and reproductive rights of young people. We have a lot to do here – and we know that – especially in the country, in order to enable all young people to have access to it. I am very pleased that today it will be possible to make a request – and it was decided unanimously in the Committee, I assume that it will be so – because I believe that this is a very important contribution to the fact that sexual education will be part of, of course, general education. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20702	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20723	Mr President. Federal Minister! First of all, a few sentences on the initiative of Mr Spadiut regarding the improvement of pain therapies. As you know, Austria was a long follower of adequate pain therapy. One was reluctant in the administration of opiates due to unfounded and scientifically non-sustainable fears, and so on and so on. There has been an amendment which has slightly watered down the direction of impact, I would say, and has remained somewhat vague. I would really ask you to do the following: I tabled a petition application or request from a self-help group for pain therapy in Parliament a few weeks ago. I don't know what's happening to him. However, the patients report that over 50 percent of patients are not satisfied with pain treatment and have not achieved enough long pain-free times through therapy. Many say they are looking for suitable professionals for months, who understand them and open up new opportunities for them. I believe that there should be something to be done here in the training of health professionals, in the training of doctors, in providing sufficient centres of competence or at least in consiliar services and making it very concrete. I have also tried to defend you and your health reform. I have not only received praise after we have approved the Greens of the Health Reform. One important point was the strengthening of the established area. There are domestic medical models prepared by a group in the doctor's chamber, by domestic doctors, which I think are essentially desirable and good. But my hope is that, in the target control, things will really be called by name, that they will be scheduled in a stage plan, and that as concrete as I believed it, it has not, I say, reached 100 percent, very diplomatically. I do not yet know any medical education regulations or novels for general physicians and specialists. You just know it's supposed to take longer. There comes criticism from various groups, partly also from young doctors, which I do not share. That's where I'm on your side. In the current education on general medicine, very essential subjects were not available at all and some were just so short that you can't acquire real skills. So that's what I'm saying. As far as the specialist is concerned, it has gone back and forth. I'd have been for that. There is still no agreement on teaching practices which should finance this. I wonder how a settled area should be strengthened if it is not yet prepared to do so. I can't. That is, as long as this is not possible, there will be no hospital reform either. Since I simply ask you to push even more concretely and to see that the countries, I say once, remain unverified with the bar and keep their promises and their signatures the way you are and we expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20763	The next speaker was Mr Rasinger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20784	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! At the beginning, thanks to the Minister, who was always my counterpart, sometimes relatively tough, sometimes stubborn, but in fact, the working relationship was a lot of respect and often also a lot of consensus and results. I sometimes wish you were more of a tower in the burn, with the branding being the healthy managers who believe everything is superfluous. That's been following me for 25 years. Maybe it's been following you a few years less, and maybe you'll still be the big tower in the fire. I'm a builder and I'm gonna put some building blocks on it. Thank you very much to Mr Grünewald. I hear you're not going to run. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I'm still here!]] We will miss your expertise. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Special sessions are still waiting!]] Col. Grünewald, that you rubbed at me at times, almost honors me, because if a university professor rubs himself to a practitioner, then this is worth mentioning. Thank you for your input. [[General condolences.]] But now to the matter itself: Decisive for whether a health reform is successful, I have already experienced several health reforms, is not the thickness of the paper, not the number of paragraphs, but whether the supply is going well, if not even better. We're defending place one to three in the world, I'd say more than three. We're eight to nine at the cost, so we're not that bad. We should also stop with the nonsense that all of this is inefficient. That lacks any basis. But it's crucial that primary care works, and that's the family doctors once. You won't believe it, I'm a house doctor, and I've been doing it for 30 years. So I think I know what I'm talking about. To my surprise, the main association has made a study that shows that 93 percent of Austrians find it great that there are domestic doctors. But fun side by side, it's five to twelve, we're running out of it. The doctors are running to Germany and to other countries, such as England. And if we don't wake up soon, then we won't have one, as is the case in Germany, for example in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Saxony-Anhalt, where you already give the university students money to do it at all. Why won't there be any domestic doctors? The reason is not because I have written this into the government programme and the Minister has unfortunately not done so, namely a family doctor model, we have lost five years there, but – first – the young doctors do not feel trained in the hospitals, squirtschani. Secondly, What we now have to do with proposals is inconceivable, because the university makes a practical year completely inseparable from you. You're gonna make another Common Trunk. No one knows if you will even find people and hospitals doing the training. Outside there are minus 40 percent income against the specialist, lots of new bureaucracy. I'm just saying, in the so-called health reform paper, it's back in front of diagnosis and some codifications. I'd like you to be lucky to have this done without red tape. The fact is, we have more and more also the influence of economy. There are certainly influential cash functionaries who demand a bonus malus system for follow-up costs. I'm telling you one thing, that's pure ethics being carried to the grave, because if I throw out the ten most expensive patients of me, leukemia patients, hepatitis C et cetera, I get 30 percent less. Or, in other words, as it said, territorial health telephone director Pazourek: 5 percent of patients – a bad word – cause 50 percent of the costs. Last point: Teaching practice. We have not even been able to apply for 20 years, the equivalent of half a kilometer, i.e. € 15 million. – It’s for shame! I come to the conclusion: I've been a family doctor for 30 years, I'm very happy to do this. But I see with horror that all over Europe the domestic doctors are going out, and in Austria we will soon be going out of the house doctors. Since it takes a very long time to train a family doctor, it is not just five before twelve, but one before twelve – and we should all consider that. I will certainly not give peace and lay stone for stone on the tower in the burning.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20848	The next speaker was Mr Spadiut. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20869	Mr President. Minister! High house! 1.7 million Austrians are chronic pain patients. The health care of this group of persons is unsatisfactory: There is a lack of treatment, it often takes years for a corresponding diagnosis to be made. Apart from the psychological and physical burden of these deplorable persons, the economic damage is considerable. Around a third is inability to work, 21 percent are in early retirement. The resulting or resulting damage is reported at €3 billion. That is why it is high time to improve this unsatisfactory situation, for example by introducing a comprehensive range of interdisciplinary pain clinics. Since many improvements are necessary, I am glad that today a amendment by BZÖ, ÖVP and SPÖ is agreed to my request, which calls on the Supreme Council of Sanity and the specialized companies to develop a federal quality guidelines for improving the care of pain patients in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The pain of the special species currently has to endure many bulls. Since Monday there has been an unconstitutional state in Styria between the regional health insurance fund and the Red Cross, but not because the local health insurance fund does not touch during the negotiations; quite the contrary: The local health insurance fund is not ready for negotiation. Since 1999, the rate has remained the same except for a one-off adjustment of 3.5 percent. In this period, the consumer price index increased by 3124 percent, the transport cost index by 66.03 percent and the diesel by a legendary 125.28 percent. In order to be able to work cost-effectively, the Red Cross requires a tariff adjustment of 19.5 percent, which is 1.5 percent per year last. The local health insurance fund offers 4 percent for 13 years. This is indisputable, where it would be easy for the local health insurance fund to respond to the demands of the Red Cross. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the one hand, the local health insurance fund had a profit of €150 million last year; on the other hand, anyone transported with the rescue must pay the amount of a double prescription fee. In my case, the Red Cross will be charged for a transport from Knittelfeld to Judenburg and back € 22.75; of which € 2.35 will be paid by the health insurance fund, and € 20.40 will be paid by the transported person himself. The contributions of the insured will also be constantly increased by the Styrian local health insurance fund. For example, the recipe fee has been increased by 65.63 percent over the past 13 years, which in turn increases the amount of self retention during transport. While the insured can claim back their costs, the example of a dialysis patient who has to go ahead with €1500 in the month, it shows that this is a sum that no one can afford. As no agreement can be reached with the Landeskrankenkasse, it is probably primarily the head of state as a speaker for the intervention organisations. To solve this problem. His statement that he will not interfere in the dispute or intervene as a payer is last-class and irresponsible. He has been very well involved in the health reform and has influenced it very massively. However, it would be easy for him to try to find a solution, but he has on the one hand supervisory board in the regional health insurance fund; on the other hand, he could influence his party colleagues in the local health insurance fund. The situation is inconceivable for us Steirer in all cases. Since our head of state is too weak and has no time for other problems because of the community alliances and because the local health insurance fund does not want to withdraw from its position, it is now up to the Minister of Health to exercise his supervisory duty on social security. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Minister, please be active so that the Red Cross can work cost-effectively in Styria, and create a soothing rescue situation for all the Steirers!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e20967	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21028	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21049	Federal Minister! High house! Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, allow me, at your request, to address the births of 1954/55 with the request for the extension of the Contergan group of people. In this context, I would also like to point out the German legal situation in question, because, in accordance with the provisions of the German Conterganstiftungsgesetz – we know that because we have discussed it several times here in the Hohe Haus – this foundation also includes those people who do not live in Germany: Austrians too. These receive monthly pension payments in the event of evidence of damage caused or caused by the use of these medicines. We all know – we don't need to think about it – about the problem of this drug, which came on the market more than 54 years ago, but was classified as safe at the time. In his term of office, Minister Stöger, in particular, has made a massive attempt to ensure that all Austrians concerned receive compensation. I even trust myself to claim that he alone owes it to the fact that the original deadline for the application has been abolished and that more recent cases are now being covered. In addition, the situation for the Contergan-damaged people within the framework of the German Foundation has improved significantly in so far as with 1. On August of this year, there are again substantial increases in monthly pensions. In addition, an annual amount of €30 million was made available on the part of the Federal Ministry to cover specific needs of those concerned in individual cases. However, the condition – and this is already to be said – is that health damage can be demonstrated by the close-up of health services. I've come from the drug. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] If it is now requested in the present request to extend the group of persons concerned to the years 1954 and 1955, it must already be mentioned that we cannot get closer to this point of view because it is solely from the fact that, according to the information available, the active substance thalidomide contained in Contergan in Austria under the name Softenon, for the first time, on 12 May. In November 1958, it appeared impossible for these births to have suffered health damage.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21098	Mrs Schenk has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21119	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, we have summarized ten agenda items – a very comprehensive programme – four of which will be adopted unanimously as six-party decisions, which is positive. However, the previous discussion – and also the agenda – shows that there is much to be criticised in the health field, especially with regard to domestic doctors. It has already been mentioned today, also an official family doctor or a family doctor in the profession, Mr Rasinger, has spoken about this: It's about upgrading the family doctors. Mr Minister, your non-health reform 2013 has not led to an appreciation of the domestic doctors. This is a major concern for us, a very important concern, because it involves in particular ensuring supply in rural areas. The general conditions for the domestic doctors are not given accordingly, the profession is no longer attractive enough. There are no attractive conditions, and I believe that there are also the protection zones around public pharmacies, because this often means that domestic doctors have a loss of salary or salary loss of up to 30 percent, ladies and gentlemen. This is a major part of income, and something has to be done. I believe that this regulation must be withdrawn, and that is why the call of the family doctor association is also understandable and supportive where it concerns first aid to the family doctor. Ten demands were made there – ten times A like upgrading. These points are also identical with our demands and quite supportive. In mid-June, there was a panel discussion with the opposition parties, where there was also a consensus with regard to the domestic doctors and the upgrading of the domestic doctors. To the health system in general, one has to say: It is one of the most important foundations in our country, but it needs reform. We do not believe that the reform you have carried out was a reform. It must be reduced in the administrative field, especially in the administrative sphere, because it is over-administrative, that is to say, all the experts. I do not want to quote the Court of Auditors again, which has already found this frequently enough; other health experts have also found it. The money wasted in the superfluous administration then lacks the citizen, missing where it really belongs. What happens due to disputes – this has been mentioned by Mr Spadiut before – what happens in the Styria that the patients themselves now for the This is also a condition which is unbearable in a country like Austria. We will vote in favour of Mr Spadiut's request and hope that we will also find the approval of the other political groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21167	Mr Stöger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21189	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We have here a number of agenda items: We improve the safety of medicines in Austria. We ensure that the AGES can be a reference centre for technical quality assurance for ionising radiations, ensure that mammography screening can be implemented in Austria. We have modernised and renewed the salary fund law, in particular the professional group of employed pharmacists – mostly women – and pharmacists ensure their role and funding of their salary. I think these are further contributions to the further development of the health sector. Allow me to answer a few questions briefly, and I'll allow myself a few corrections. Mr Spadiut, it is very important to me that we improve pain therapy, that is right. Unfortunately, on the topic of the Steirische Red Cross, I have to correct the fact that the local health insurance fund has not announced the contracts; unfortunately, it was the Styrian Red Cross, and I can only ask for a very, very clear commitment to the care of patients there. It is important that patients have the opportunity to be transported. But I also say one thing: The Austrian Court of Auditors, an instrument of this House, has criticized the fact that the Styrian local health insurance fund has paid too high contributions to the Red Cross. So you have to consider what you want when your institution criticises the Court of Auditors. It is important to me that people are provided, and I would also like to say right that some rescue services in Styria have accepted the offer, the high offer, which is 10 percent increase, of the Styrian local health insurance fund. I can't understand that the Red Cross didn't do that. Furthermore, the results of the Styrian local health insurance fund do not amount to € 125 million, but to € 39.9 million. What you should do right here: No head of state shall appoint supervisory councils in a local health insurance fund, but the local health insurance fund shall be appointed by the self-administration. From my point of view of the family doctor model another remark: We have a bigger look, not a family doctor model; the family doctor is always at the heart of the home doctor model. It's important to me that patients focus on primary care. The health reform strengthens this primary care and thereby strengthens the role of domestic doctors, and I can assure you: We will further develop this primary care with the health reform and strengthen it in the interests of patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21233	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21255	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I refer to the item on the agenda for smoking in my speech on item 24. I think there are probably relatively few topics that are discussed as controversially as smoking – not so much as the content itself is concerned, because I think there has also been a very big change in the population. There will probably be relatively few people who say smoking is not doing anything and smoking is healthy. It is more about the measures being taken, and we are always in a tension between regulation on the one hand and freedom on the other. I personally am a great follower of as much freedom as possible, i.e. I also want to give people the opportunity to make a mistake if he has no impact on others. This applies, of course, only to adults, not to children and young people; in fact, there may be zero tolerance. I think that this all-party proposal is a matter of calling on the countries to look together with the Confederation at all that can be done to stop children and young people from smoking. I can only report from my federal state, Upper Austria: We have an Institute for Health Planning, which has set certain health objectives. A very essential goal is the prevention of addiction, and this is also urgently necessary. In Upper Austria, for example, 37 percent of young people between 15 and 19 years of age are smokers, that is, they smoke regularly. There's a lot to do. That is to say, one certainly has good cooperation partners in the countries. A few words maybe still to TOP 17, to change the salary fund law: The pharmaceutical salary fund is, as it were, the social and economic institute of the Austrian pharmacists and pharmacists, and I think it is a very interesting remuneration system because it also ensures that older and more expensive workers are not discriminated against. This new law is certainly in order. It mainly includes adaptations to EU legal changes. It provides for the adoption of a rules of procedure and serves to clarify the competences of each institution of the salary fund. In addition, the financial performance of the salary fund is transparent, and this is also a point where the professional group is satisfied – and I am glad that we also have a point where the professional group is satisfied.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21292	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21313	Madam President. Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The situation for people with chronic pain is not satisfactory in Austria, as there is an urgent need for improvement. It must be borne in mind that in Austria about 1.7 million people suffer from chronic pain. A major problem is that there is no surface area. Covering supply, especially in rural areas, is already being improved in terms of supply. You have to consider what people with chronic complaints, my very much revered Ladies and gentlemen, until their sufferings, their pains are first diagnosed in order to be treated at all. It should also be remembered that chronic pain is a common cause of early pensions, infirmities, incapacity for work and much more, and we do not want to do so. – It must therefore be further expanded to help these people. One, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot understand: There are medicines in Germany for people with chronic pain who are not allowed in Austria – where it is always claimed that Austria has one of the best health systems in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21356	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21377	Madam President. Mr. Minister! In Austria, we have the situation that members of the Industrial Social Security Insurance must pay a self-retained amount of 20 percent for their medical visits or for the benefit of the health insurance scheme. – 20 per cent, ladies and gentlemen, is a lot of money, a lot of money, especially for sales-less one-person companies and micro-enterprises – and we have many of them, as we know from a current reply from the Minister. This is an unsustainable situation for us, and we have therefore put forward the request to abolish this restraint, and that is right. We consider him unfair, unfair and, of course, shortsighted. How was the discussion or the situation in the Health Committee when the debate on this issue took place? The one thing is that the SPÖ is practicing in Sunday's speeches. You are always saying that this should be abolished – Mr Federal Minister, you are the leader in the abolition of self-preservation, just as Mr State Secretary Arbitrator, who says that it must be abolished for the EPCs – but the support will be missed. That's a serious mistake! The ÖVP is generally on the wood road on this subject anyway. There it is claimed that this is not possible, and this is a nonsense, because, as we know from health economic studies, these high self-esteems cause people to take advantage of treatment much later on, the costs are getting much higher, and that also preventive medical services are not used or much, much later, which causes much higher costs in the long term. There are many points, therefore, that are in favour of self-esteeming this self-retaining of course. It's not every day evening, even today. We will pursue this strictly in order to make the situation more fair, fair and secure for one-person companies and for micro-enterprises.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21419	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21441	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Every person wants to get healthy and uncomplaintably older. We all know that, due to demographic developments over the next few years and decades, people are lucky to get older, and this is one thing that should be done as healthy and as uncomplained as possible. That is why, in my view, the policy has everything to do to make it possible, and we have therefore tabled a request under item 18 which deals with the introduction of a health bonus. This is a health bonus, which is exactly this path that we need to invest more money in prevention, because € 1 in prevention, as the Court of Auditors calculated, saves € 3 in treatment costs. So this is also an economic correct account. In addition, increased prevention in the form of a health bonus would give each individual the feeling that he is ultimately responsible for his health and that he can actively do and do something for it. In this regard, we propose that health goals be agreed with the doctor, and everyone who successfully achieves these health objectives should receive a corresponding amount – we imagine 25 € per month – credited to his employee's contribution to health insurance. However, companies, companies that support their employees, should also be able to obtain or manage a reduction in service providers' contributions of 1% of the health insurance amount in these precautionary investigations and in these health objectives. For example, the SVA shows that this is not a brain-spinning that it can work. I have a press service from Monday, 17th. June 2013, entitled "Prevention in the SVA is a success story (...) ‘Whoever is committed to his own health shall be rewarded’. – So here too, there is already some kind of health bonus to achieve the goals. The SVA has self-retained. So there you reduce the amount of self retention and also achieve it in such a way that not only does it officially invest more in prevention, but everyone also feels and sees it. I would therefore be pleased if this request were one that could be incorporated into the health system for the future, because you, Mr Federal Minister, always say that prevention is very, very important to you that it is your concern. I think if you take this step, so if you really make something concrete here and not just general statements of intent, then we would be one big step closer to it that staying healthy is always cheaper than getting healthy. And this would also be very important for the financial security of health insurance funds, the health telephone in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21487	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21508	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I will deal with the request concerning those affected by the conflict. Mrs Berlakovich-Jenewein, I am very grateful to you for submitting my request once again, because that is apparently exactly 1 : 1 of the request with number 1842/A(E) concerning the extension of the group of persons I am referring to on 29 October. ==References====External links== The only difference is that I've broken up in detail, then, as far as it's concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Where is your request now?]] – Thank you for your call, because he is a sign of how social democracy is. Now I'm going to tell you something – that's a very great story –: We discussed this in detail with the Minister at the time, which is true, 2012. We have brought a certain master's expertise – and I had a lot of action in it – that was born in 1954. Now we have just heard, that can't be, because Contergan has only been approved in 1958. In 1946 the company Grünenthal was registered in the commercial register. In 1954 the attempts started, but imagine that! – From 1954 there were first births of suspected contergan victims in Chile, Austria and the USA. - 1954! We heard just before, that can't be, because that only happened in 1958. – This is really about solidarity! This is not a matter of many cases, it is about two, three, four, five cases, Mr Minister. And you know the case quite clearly! What bothered me at the time was that the Lord really brought you a lot of documents – we stacked everything, we passed it on to you – and then it said: Well, it's not a problem! Everyone – we just heard this before – who reports receives compensation. – He wasn’t even loaded because it said: They were born too early, that can't be! So we think there's a lot going wrong here, Minister. Of course, we will support the request, even if it is a pure copy, because we find that there are people who now come to the age in which they are simply impaired and in their lives now have great difficulties – simply because you are affected if they have only one hand or shortened feet, and have to rebuild the apartment or whatever. It costs a lot of money. And that is why I would ask you, Mr Minister, to take a closer look at this again and perhaps consider really expanding the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21551	Next speaker: Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21572	Madam President. Minister! High house! In these ten applications there are many ideas which can be supported in principle. Unfortunately, the members of the government parties were not sufficiently ready to speak in order to achieve concrete solutions together. The two government documents on the pharmaceuticals law and the salary fund law are, of course, based on government proposals and are adopted by the opposition. The BZÖ's proposal on improving the situation of chronic pain patients in Austria has been accepted by God and will bring about an improvement. The suggestions of the BZÖ and the Greens regarding prevention were rejected, where one can discuss the type of prevention here – whether one introduces the Health-Hunderter or something similar, whether one pours out a bonus or whatever. We would not have supported the BZÖ proposal in the form either, but one can in principle discuss how to do it and not simply reject it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Go!]] One could also seek a common solution, which is satisfactory for all. There are also amendments tabled by the government parties to the requests for tobacco and condoms, where I say that the original proposal is watered down in such a way that it cannot be recognized at all. No well then everyone agrees – there will then be a unanimous opinion here – but I do not see the meaning of the whole, because here there were concrete applications that are now so watered down. The proposals and the two applications submitted by the FPÖ, on the one hand to increase the number of persons affected by thalidomide or contravention and on the concept of health, were rejected. Now I still agree with Dr. Rasinger that many opposition requests have been discussed and accepted in the Health Committee, which distinguishes the Health Committee from many other committees here in Parliament, where one is not even prepared to discuss opposition applications – but it is still a further way for the representatives of the government parties to show the idea of opposition to the ideas of respect which the opposition brings to the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21609	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21630	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Prevention and prevention are definitely the key factors for a healthy society, and I actually thought that at least at the end of this legislative period, government parties would have a little more courage to show a little more innovation. At the age of 11 children start smoking in Austria. In the group of 16 to 17-year-olds, the proportion of smoking adolescents exceeds that of adults. 1.6 million people in total are tobacco dependent in Austria. You will – no question! – with no law in Austria or worldwide deters young people from smoking – this will not work – but it needs seek preventive measures, it needs clear measures for more prevention. You must try to understand young people: Why do they smoke? What are the motives for smoking? And above all: What role does the tobacco industry play in this context? What about advertising? And of course: How does it look like lobbyists, lobbyists of the tobacco lobby are represented in the political parties? These are all important measures, and a joint proposal has now been put forward, which can be or may be a small first step. to work to protect all children and young people against tobacco consumption. The next government is sure to do exactly that and look closely at it. In the EU, we are in the final analysis of the prevention of tobacco prevention strategies, and there is a need for clear implementation. This implementation also applies to effective measures to protect against sexually transmitted diseases, as well as to protect against unwanted pregnancies. The free charge of condoms to adolescents up to 18 years in pharmacies is a clear green claim. On the one hand, it is about the Enlightenment – of course! – but on the other hand, it is mainly about the low level of access to contraception. According to AIDS aid in Austria, one to two new infections with the HI virus occur daily, and since the beginning of the records by the end of November 2012 already 2,000 people have died on the HI virus, i.e. AIDS. In addition, the unwanted pregnancies are due to teenagers: In Austria, there are twelve pregnancies per 1,000 teenagers; in Switzerland, for example, there are five and in the Netherlands four unwanted pregnancies of teenagers. That means that all of this is to consider, to treat, to discuss. We know that the condom protects against infection, but this also means, of course, that sex can happen without risk. In 19 EU countries, contraceptions are free, so to speak, under quotations, “on a health certificate”. This does not exist in Austria – unfortunately still not – although, of course, prevention measures such as mammography or prostate examinations are paid. In other words, it would certainly be on the agenda to look at how it looks with other means of contraception, and also how it is financed. It's a shame that the chance was not realized to give condoms to young people even in pharmacies. Unfortunately, the proposal that has now been submitted is only a first step.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21689	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21710	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again on the request concerning thalidomide or counterganges. It's right, we've talked about it several times. – Mr Markowitz, let us now turn aside who wrote the first requests here, the fact is that Contergan was not approved in the Federal Republic of Germany until 1957; one year later under the name Softenon then in Austria. Nevertheless, it was so that in Austria all birth years could now be reported from 1956 onwards. That is, during these birth years 1956 to 1958, these malformations cannot in fact have been caused by a drug approved in Austria. The question is another, namely: If we are here to grant a pension or compensation to a group of persons who accidentally have a damage due to an approved drug, I am already asking why we are leaving a group of people outside, namely those who were harmed by thalidomide, but perhaps in the course of drug testing and drug testing. Like that. For those concerned, nothing changes by what the drug de facto called. I do not understand the rejection because it is not thousands or hundreds of people. These are some, very few people who would benefit from it, who would really need it. Because one thing is clear: These people are all already well over 50 years old, heading for 60 years, that is, at an age where they already need increased medical treatment. There are also studies that show that the people concerned, so to speak, the people who have been mistrained by thalidomide, now not only have problems with the limbs in the external appearance – as we know them – but above all that blood tracts are different. This means that they also need an additional burden not only in medical treatment, but also in the field of care. Therefore, I would say, in the sense of solidarity with these people – and once again, it is a handful of people – that really extend to the vintages until 1954, because there are just reports that thalidomide has already been synthesized at least in 1953, possibly even earlier, and it is not to be excluded that it has been tested in the course of drug investigations, drug testing also really on pregnant persons, whose children were then born with these malformations.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21758	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteurs. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Draft federal law amending the pharmaceutical law, the import of medicinal products law, the tissue safety law and other laws, including title and entry into 2560 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent in this regard to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who also give their assent at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on item 16 on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 2561. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 317.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Spadiut, Mrs Spadiut, Mr Colleagues, on the security of life for the insured of the Styrian health insurance fund. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. - That's not the majority. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Draft federal law, which amends the salary fund law, together with the title and receipt in 2377 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this draft law a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees with the draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign to be given it. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 18: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 2563 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on agenda item 19: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 2564 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 20 on the agenda, on the resolution on information and prevention for the protection of young people and children annexed to the Committee's report 2565. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 318.) We shall also proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 2566 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on item 22 of the agenda, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 2567 on the upgrading of the family doctor. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 319.) I shall now vote on agenda item 23: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 2568 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on item 24, the resolution on the protection of children and young people from tobacco consumption and its adverse health consequences attached to the Committee's report 2569. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 320.) [[21:33:22]] 25. Point Health Committee report on the government template (2400 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act (2570 d.b.) 26. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (2376, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law which repeals the Bang disease law, the Cattle Leucosis Act and the Federal Law on the Control of Infectious Bovine Rhinotracheitis and Infectious Pustuole Vulvovaginitis (2571 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21954	We now come to points 25 and 26 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e21984	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion is about a novel to the Food Safety Act, which in principle states that consumers have a right to safe food. It is therefore appropriate to welcome all measures to ensure the enforcement of all provisions on food safety and consumer protection. I think that not least the scandal of equine meat, as well as the minor penalties for labelling infringements, were responsible for the emergence of this novel. What is going to be changed? – On the one hand, the maximum penalty framework is increased from € 20 000 to € 50 000, in the repeat case from € 40 000 to € 100 000. New are also minimum penalties of € 700, in the repeat case of € 4000. For the first time, it will also be possible to impose prison sentences of up to six months. There is no doubt that good food labelling, close control and strict sanctions, as now foreseen by the novelle, are important for consumer protection, but also for their own market opportunities. The Food Safety Report for 2012 was presented these days. He is undoubtedly also a measure in his result of whether we are right with the regulations of the law. Food safety is a harmonised European law, with controls being carried out nationally; in Austria, in central federal administration, under the responsibility of the national leaders, coordinated by the Federal Minister. In 2012, 43 872 operational controls were carried out by the Food Supervisory Authorities and 30 966 samples were examined. 22 100 meat establishments and 3 117 dairy holdings were controlled by the national veterinary authorities. The result of this is such that 85 percent of the samples are flawless, that about 0.5 percent of samples are harmful to health and 3.4 percent are unsuitable for appropriate consumption. The most common concerns relate to label defects, 8.7 percent or 2,707 cases. The result confirms the accuracy and importance of this novel, and I can ask you to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22029	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22051	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Law on Deregulation in the Monitoring of Diseases in the Cattle Sector is to be said: Austria is considered to be recognised as free from disease, leukosis, IBR and IPT – these are infectious bovine diseases – and those laws which are currently the legal basis for combating these bovine diseases are hereby repealed. Of course, regulation and monitoring of these diseases are still necessary. Therefore, an animal health surveillance regulation is also introduced under the Animal Health Act. This will achieve an increase in legal certainty and also legal harmonisation. The amendment to the Federal Act amending the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, as mentioned by my previous speaker, focuses on a sensitive increase in the penalties. In particular, this should include the intentional action to deceive and mislead consumers. There are severe penalties. The placing on the market of meat without complying with the requirements of the investigation even leads to the withdrawal of freedom, it is a penalty of liberty. As already pointed out, the penalties are more than doubled and new minimum penalties are also introduced. This change of law is intended to prevent, in particular, serious infringements of the labelling right in food and is, of course, due to the fact that, in the course of the scandal of equine meat, consumer fraud has occurred in relation to a falsely declared meat placed on the market in large quantities, including many Member States of the European Union. It is important, however, that no sanctions are imposed, especially in the event of minor infringements at the bagatella level – as it is also stated in the law. This means that, in the case of small quantities delivered directly to the final consumer or even to local small businesses, where there may be unconscious incorrect information on the labels, no penalties are imposed. An example of this is also contained in the explanations of the law. It is stated that if the word ‘maintainable until’ is replaced by the three letters ‘MHD’, that does not result in a penalty, especially if it cannot be assumed from an intention. The complexity of the labelling rules is now very high, and it is often very difficult for micro-enterprises and small producers to keep up with this and to understand it and to look through it. It is therefore also important that these small farms, as well as the direct marketing farmers who market their high-quality products in their immediate environment, are protected from penalties when labelling errors occur on the labels and there is no purpose to see them. In this sense, there is also a committee statement. It expressly points out that the purpose of the consciously used false marking is to be combated by this law. Today, the Food Safety Report 2012 has also been addressed, so I would like to expressly hold here – I have been able to take a brief look at it – that, especially among direct marketers, the least labelling errors could be found among farmers. But, of course, one is never against the fact that something is happening, and in this sense I am glad that these micro-enterprises are accordingly protected from punishment by this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22099	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22120	Madam President. Federal Minister! Of course, the last meat scandal has revealed that not only errors happen, but that there is a real massive purpose here. Not only somewhere in Europe, but unfortunately God also here in Austria there was a sausage factory, namely in Carinthia, which deliberately brought a falsely declared sausage into circulation, did not record that it also processed horse meat, which, as it were, was stored in a “secret camp” – under quotation marks. Well, that's where the precipices are. Of course, other large farms were also affected, and obviously there must have been a competitive advantage when processing horse meat and not marking it. In Austria this would probably not have become the very big problem, but I know that in other countries, of course, it is not customary to eat horses. A little bit of a problem I have with the “will”. – Who can prove what purpose is? Of course, if a company is wrong for years, it will not have to think about it at all. But the question of the intention is difficult to assess in individual cases. Nevertheless, we will of course give our approval to this bill because it is a step in the right direction. The second government proposal concerns the Cattle Disease Act. This is about Austria – we have already heard it today – being officially recognized by three bovine diseases. So far, these three diseases, namely the infectious disease, leukosis and infectious Bovine Rhinotracheitis, as well as infectious pustulous vulvovaginitis have been combated. On the basis of a new law, the cattle health surveillance regulation, which is to enter into force from 2014 onwards, Austria is virtually only observed. The law now in force will be abolished. In our opinion, it would have been more useful if one had linked this to one another if, on the one hand, one had linked the abolition that we are deciding today with the in-force step of the Surveillance Regulation, so to speak, together. That would certainly have been more useful. Nevertheless, we will also give our approval to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22158	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22181	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The colleagues have already done what it is all about. We will agree to the amendment of the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, as well as the corresponding termination of our own law for this disease. This will be regulated in future under the Animal Disease Regulation. I would also like to mention once again that the Committee's position on the border of luggage, which Mr Hellererer has worked hard, is a reasonable way of doing so so that we do not treat inequalities in the same way. Smallest quantities are to be seen differently, usually not with deceiving intent, but on the basis of ignorance. However, I would also like to point out that there is a need to clarify the administrative practice more precisely. Federal Minister! It is often true that food inspectors in the districts are very different, which is why it would be very, very useful to ensure that this committee is also issued so that the administrative practice is uniform in all regions of Austria and does not then say in a region of the food inspector that it is different to see whether it sees or finds it more rigorous that it is a greater violation, and in another area it is seen differently. It would be a good thing to regulate this taxatively on the one hand, and on the other hand to define the scope which officials should have; that is, positive and, at the same time, taxative. That would be a hint I'd like to give you. In addition, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to take the opportunity to address those things that have unfortunately not been regulated. The basis of this whole problem was the horse meat scandal. On the basis of this scandal, we have seen that there are mislabellings, mistakes in the entire food chain. It cheers the consumers of equine meat as beef, and much more. It was not health-related, but it was clearly deception, error. In this context, it should be noted that: A major project in this area, which you have undertaken in the government, was to launch an Austrian seal law. This project has failed, Minister of State! I do not want to blame you alone, you were willing to do it, the government was not willing to implement it as a whole. Only one thing I have to do right on this occasion: In fact, according to Parliament's correspondence, they have said: ‘At this point, Stäger once again regretted that he had not received a parliamentary majority for his ‘mark law’.’ That's where I want to correct you. We have not been able to seriously discuss a bill here. She didn't get that far, she didn't get through the Council of Ministers. So it is not we who have prevented it in Parliament, but you, the government, should also be kept clear and clear at this point. I would also like to regret that two requests have been postponed by us in the committee for the x-th time, which relate precisely to this law, namely to the Good Quality Seal Act. We call for this to be justified by the origin, the aspect of regionality, the application of animal protection and genetic engineering freedom, Mr Gaßner! This would be useful in a seal law, because according to the four-eye principle. I knows, the AMA and so on – it is always argued with that – but the AMA rules are not uniform enough, they are not externally rated, they are guidelines of the AMA. In this context, it is also said that the AMA's controlling is inadequate, as we must do something in the future. However, we will discuss this at another item on the agenda. Mr Federal Minister, I know that the question of origin identification for agricultural products and value-setting agricultural ingredients in processed products is also being discussed at European level. It is about pizza ingredients and similar mixtures, which contain just processed products in the overall context. We want an EU-wide scheme, not a question, but Austrian regulations are necessary, including the labelling of processed eggs, i.e. noodles, flour, other products or gastronomy. There is an urgent need for a regulation that we should also implement nationally. Unfortunately – we have even already adopted a resolution in this context – this has not been implemented so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22242	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22264	Madam President. Minister! High house! The revision of the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act was urgently necessary. The intensification of criminal penalties and the increase in penalties will increasingly stop them from operating sorely. What I lack is the involvement of official veterinarians as control bodies. Until some time ago, these had been commissioned to carry out checks in the meat processing establishments. Hygiene, goods input, goods exit, stock of goods, delivery notes and refrigeration rooms were checked. This, of course, made these offenses very difficult. These controls were discontinued at the expense of meat processing establishments which criticized the high costs. Perhaps it is possible to reintroduce these controls as a result of the increasing crime. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The abolition of the laws relating to four animal diseases is acceptable, since Austria is also recognised as free from these animal diseases abroad and is therefore not at risk of animal exports. The regulation of its monitoring under the Animal Health Act is all right; that it takes place only later, is not a problem as we daily control the health status of the animals. In any case, we will agree to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22313	Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22334	Madam President. It is a pleasure to be able to say that the food is safe in Austria. In order to maintain this status and to strengthen our identification, we have Government template, introduced this amendment to the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act. We increase the penalties and ensure that no meat subject to the obligation to investigate can be placed on the market without having undergone the required investigations. And if this happens anyway, then judicial punishment – which is threatened with imprisonment – will be done against it. This is another important step. We will thus increase the preventive effect. In Vienna, a meeting of the World Health Organization/Europe is taking place in order to do something, especially in the case of food-related diseases, about putting prevention in the foreground. It's a high-level conference. As regards the status of the food sector, Austria has a good position, and we want to keep it. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Health Committee for their good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22377	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word on the part of the reporting is desired. We shall therefore proceed to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. We come to the vote on agenda item 25: Draft Federal Act amending the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, together with the title and receipt in 2400 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – That is unanimous again. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 26: Draft federal law which repeals the Bang disease law, the Cattle Leukosis Act and the Federal Law to combat infectious bovine Rhinotracheitis and the Infectious Pustuols Vulvovaginitis, including title and entry into 2376 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are giving the vote here to give a sign. – That is unanimous in turn. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:53:50]] 27. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs on Amendment 2323/A by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Wolfgang Katzian, Mr Katzian, on a Federal Act amending the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act 2010, the Gas Economic Act 2011 and the Energy Control Act (2389, B.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22462	We're on the 27th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22489	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have indeed not made it easy for this initiative proposal to do so, even with the amendment that is still to be tabled, with regard to the formation of opinions, because we are still very skeptical about this proposal for an initiative yesterday – I am quite open to it. The main reason for this was the data protection concerns regarding the use of the smart meter devices defined in this initiative application, i.e. the so-called intelligent measuring devices, along with the associated measurement networks. There were not only massive data protection concerns about IT security, the software security of this network and the “intelligent measuring instruments” of the Data Protection Council. We have had a difficult process of opinion in this regard. With the amendment tabled today, the matter looks slightly different, because, in addition to the adaptations to administrative jurisdiction, I would like to mention this initiative, but also the amendment tabled today, it also contains a lot of good things, namely, the new rules on insider trade, but also the provisions on imports of grey electricity, which are: Adjustment and designation of electricity labelling. Furthermore, the freedom of choice now provided for by the amendment request, whether you want to have such a smart meter device or whether it should be in operation with a device or not. In addition, data protection concerns are widely taken into account in today's amendment, and instead of defining the so-called state of the art as provided for in this proposal for the initiative, the certification and the standards that are actually being applied are now precise, so that an international standard and a continuous evaluation are ensured. We will therefore vote in favour of this initiative, taking account of the amendment proposal. This is certainly not the best possible solution, the optimal solution, but I think it is a reasonable compromise in which the positive is, at least, superior and through which one has a good approach to bring in the still open improvement options in the future. An open question, which I would also like to raise at this point, which is likely to be of major interest to consumers, is: Who pays for this? Conversion, this installation, this system changeover to the new measuring systems, the new measuring networks? This is due to considerable costs, and I think it is unlikely that the final consumer, the consumer, will be left with the costs. The cost of electricity and energy for households has increased considerably in recent times, and I believe that any additional burden is unbearable for households, especially for families, and would at least be rejected by us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22535	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22556	Madam President. Mr. Minister! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the constructive discussions we have held here, so that we have come to a five-party request. I think that shows the positive spirit of the negotiations. I shall also bring in the amendment tabled by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Katzian, Mr Brunner, Mr Widmann, Mr Lugar, colleagues on the request 2323/A by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Katzian, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act 2010, the Gas Economic Act 2011 and the Energy Control Act, as amended by the Committee's report 2389 of the Supplements. The core points of this application are the 100% electricity labelling on pumped storage power plants, especially – it has already been tailor-made – the improvement of data protection for smart meters, the online provider change and the implementation of the REMIT Regulation, which includes the prohibition of insider trading and market manipulation. I think that with this law, especially in terms of smart meters, we have in the future found a balanced combination of modern technology and the consideration of personal interests, i.e. the introduction of intelligent measuring instruments, which should also lead to more energy efficiency. The model region in Upper Austria – where 86,000 such smart meters have already been installed, without problems – shows that this works well. I think it's a right concept at the right time. Online vendor change is also a very important point for the competitiveness of the Austrian energy industry. There are 140 electricity suppliers in Austria, and there it is good if competition exists. Currently, only 1.2 percent change the electricity provider in Austria – in Germany there are four times as many, so we still have a little bit of room to go up. There this online provider change is the right measure to do so. I would not like to miss out on thanking the experts of the Ministry for their competent support and the Minister for the initiative. I think it is very important that we have put in place these measures. Energy policy is local policy. We need sustainable energy for households, but also for businesses and the economy, because safe and sustainable energy is important for the economic location, and that is why we are in the right direction again with this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e22605	The amendment which has just been tabled by Mr Haubner, which has been explained in his key points, will be: according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to Members. It is also properly introduced and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e24511	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e24532	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The last regular plenary sessions of a legislative period always provide a little opportunity to look back at what has been done in certain areas, what has been successful and what has not been done. In my first speech as an energy speaker, which I gave in response to the gas crisis at that time, I said that it will be crucial in the future to consume less energy, and at least we must strive to increase energy efficiency. – This assessment is now four and a half years ago, but I still believe that it is necessary to increase energy efficiency, and I believe that the need to increase energy efficiency has not become smaller, but larger. I say it quite openly – I have already said this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs: I would rather have decided today on a large energy efficiency package. We have also discussed and negotiated very intensively at various levels over a very long period of time. There have been very many people, very many institutions have invested a great deal of commitment and heart blood. I am personally very sorry that, in the end, the negotiations did not succeed in deciding on the package. It will not save us from resuming the talks in the autumn as quickly as possible. We have to implement a directive of the European Union. I am not yet sure whether all those who are now rejoicing that this has not been achieved will be happier because I do not yet see the alternatives to what we have negotiated. Today we are implementing the REMIT Regulation, which aims to avoid market abuse in the electricity and gas sectors, and the administrative jurisdiction novelle in the energy sector – the comprehensive amendment proposal has been explained and distributed by Peter Haubnershon. I am very glad that it has succeeded in saving at least important parts of this whole package into today's plenary session and in deciding this with a very large majority, or perhaps even unanimously. On the one hand, we decide on a power labelling obligation which, with all modesty, further strengthens the leading role of Austria in the fight against nuclear energy. After the nuclear disaster of Fukushima, the Federal Chancellor acted very decisively. There have been several nuclear power summits, and the electricity marking obligation there is now leading to a hundred percent nuclear power freedom in Austria. This is certainly a model example for other European countries that want to reject nuclear energy. From the undecided energy efficiency package, we take along those things that seem particularly urgent to us, for example, the open points regarding data and consumer protection in the intelligent electricity meters, at the smart meters. However, the main focus of the amendments is measures to combat energy poverty in a sustainable way. High energy costs are becoming a problem for more and more households, but instead of curing these problems with one-off injections of money, we are starting to tackle the problem of causes. In future, energy suppliers will be obliged to set up their own energy poverty and energy efficiency advisory body, which cooperates with the recognised social institutions. As I said, it's not about alms when someone can't pay his electricity bill or his heating bill, but it's about effective solutions that are also sustainable and really help. It also includes a number of other improvements in the fight against energy poverty. I think you could do a lot more. We also need to do a lot more, but there have been some first important and correct steps, and I am pleased to have the broad support of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e24586	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e24608	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers! We wanted 100 percent and got 100 percent! This applies to complete electricity labelling – not to the energy efficiency package that Mr Katzian has already mentioned. I would also have thought it necessary to adopt an ambitious law in this area. – Unfortunately, that didn't work. I think we all take it with us that this will be the first task for a new government or for the next legislative period. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have an anti-atomic consensus in Austria, and many of the decisions that fall here in Parliament are often such that they say: We do something anyway, and we still stand by it!, but in reality not really that much changes. This is different with this decision and with this request now, because it will actually change something. As of 2015, the delivery of grey electricity in Austria will be prohibited. That is to say, we have implemented a nuclear import ban in Austria. For the Austrians, this means that they can be sure that what they pay for their electricity bill certainly does not benefit any nuclear group, that all that is sold in electricity in Austria is to be deposited with proofs of origin and thus we guarantee the freedom of nuclear power of Austria. I think this is a very important and important step and supports our antiatomic consensus. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that today's decision is not only a very important signal within Austria, but also an important signal to our neighbouring countries and also within the EU. We often try to combat the expansion of nuclear power plants in other countries. We are fighting for an EU nuclear exit, and today's decision is a clear signal that we no longer want to buy nuclear power. Just as the individual consumer can do when they switch to an eco electricity provider and thus set a clear signal: With my money I buy only ecostrom!, so Austria now sends the signal: We're not buying nuclear power. An important note: Nuclear power plants are not economic anyway – if one calculates the promotions away. Many nuclear power plants are struggling with the economic and Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It is now a signal that these power plants will be much less expected if their sales are reduced. If other countries follow, I believe this is exemplary and an important step towards nuclear extinction in the EU. Social measures have also been mentioned: The law also includes a ban on weekends or on the last day before a weekend, so that it is not switched off from today to tomorrow or over the weekend, if someone has not paid the bills quite on time, so that you have a bit of buffer. We see that a lot of social policy can and must be involved in energy policy. A year after this ominous summit of NGOs with the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government, we can now implement this nuclear power ban. These were already hard negotiations between NGOs and the government. I would like to thank the NGOs very much. I think they are celebrating, but if they still hear us, I would like to thank you very much for these hard negotiations and for the basis they have provided to us here in Parliament. We then negotiated very hard again. It was also included in the original design as an exception for pumped storage power plants that pumped storage plants do not have to mark 100 percent of their electricity, but that what is pumped up does not have to be marked. – It is an Urgreen criticism of pump storage power plants that one does not pump up anything and then sell it as clean above. We have now achieved – and I am particularly pleased about this – in these negotiations, that the pumped storage power plants also have to mark 100 percent of their power and therefore the expression “full power labelling” is really justified. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to thank my colleagues, Mr Steinhauser, for their good cooperation on the data protection arguments that he has put forward, and for the energy speakers Peter Haubner and Katzian for the fact that we have made this request. I hope we can work on constructively in the next legislative period. We wanted 100 percent, and we reached 100 percent. The next thing we need is a ministry that makes 100 percent of the environment and energy. In this sense: Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e24696	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e24717	Madam President. High house! Of course, the energy policy will never be able to best fulfil a hundred percent, but you can also say from the point of view of the opposition: Better the energy policy spatz in hand than the energy policy dove on the roof – and this has been achieved here. Much of what has been implemented goes back to our ideas. I am thinking, for example, of the negotiations on the eco-electric power law in which we have been negotiating and very constructively involved. A side letter – I think I can say that, Minister – was also this online provider change, which we will now implement together. This is very important, because It is not only about saving consumers, households, but also businesses with gas and electricity together up to €400 – this is something – but it is also about the fact that households can take part in the electricity mix: Is it green electricity or is it electricity from fossil energy sources or whatever? – This is also important. Another important point is that we introduce penalties for insider trade and also for market manipulations, together with a regime, such as that to be handled. But to return to the online provider change: I've always been very happy when the wholesale has been reducing electricity prices by 26 percent since 2008, but electricity prices have risen by 21 percent in households. There you can see that the market does not work. I wish I could and hope that the market will get better here, like in Germany, where around 8 percent a year change the provider. We are currently 1.1 per cent in Austria, 1.7 per cent in the case of gas, so that we really should revive the competition. We do something good for households and businesses. As regards the smart meters that have already been addressed: There were, of course, improvements in data protection. You'll see if these are enough. I would also like to know here – and I say this immediately in advance – that in one, two years you will look forward to it again and evaluate whether the data protection keeps what it promises in the law, and whether the smart meters are safe as well. The smart meter also has something positive, apart from the costs that, I think, one would have to bring with it through the corresponding savings, without burdening the consumer: In the long term, if the devices are converted – there are projects, studies and comparative values from other countries – one could save 2 to 8 percent on the electricity bill. Another important point – my last point – is the gray current, the nuclear current at the pumped storage power plants. The cleaning, the cleaning with pumped storage power plants is no longer as easy as possible from 2015. This is also very positive and to be welcomed so that we can remain credible in nuclear policy. I am particularly grateful not only to the Ministry and the other parties for the negotiations, but also to our consumer spokesperson Sigi Dolinschek and also to our economic spokesperson Ernest Windholz, who contributed accordingly to the committees. Finally, I would also like to thank our club director Gernot Pichler, who is also very good at helping us with advice and action. I think what we have now can be seen. It is another important step towards consumer protection, towards more competition, towards more eco electricity, against nuclear energy, for a cheap electricity price. It is the right direction, but not the end of the flag rod, because the Energy Efficiency Act has been addressed: This will be the next big point in the next legislative period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e24772	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e24793	Madam President. High house! I think this law is a good example of how it works together and together. I do not, of course, conclude when it comes to good laws when it comes to good common solutions for Austria. In Spec- In this case, as Mrs Brunner has already said, many very positive things have been negotiated and this decision has now been implemented. Of course, I am very pleased that nuclear power imports will no longer be possible in the near future. We know that we import the entire electricity from Temelín – not directly, but in the sum – then “gather” it into the pumped storage power plants and sell it as clean electricity, as an eco electricity back. So, finally, something has happened here, even though – and I have to join my previous speakers – there is still a lot to do with energy efficiency. We must continue this constructive path and find together here in the House a good way to finally save energy, because we all know: Every kilowatt hour that doesn't have to be produced is a big profit for citizens because they don't have to pay it, and of course for the environment, because then no emissions are released. Therefore, in this sense: Keep going, Hohes Haus! We are, of course, ready and willing to cooperate constructively here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e24829	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Mitterlehner, is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e24851	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to join with Mr Katzian, who has meant that it is a pity that we do not adopt the Energy Efficiency Act today, because I share his opinion that it would have been a very important law or that it has remained. I would also like to say the following about the government – because it has been said here that it is the responsibility of the government to present a new law –: We've presented it. But I have to say: It is a certain problem if the individual parties in Parliament cannot agree on the system we are implementing. Both proposed systems are possible, namely the so-called network operator model and the other, the mandatory model. Both have advantages and disadvantages. We can do both. Only what we can't do is start with one another, switch to another and choose the other again. Somewhere you have to come to a decision. It will also be a certain problem if a group of industries and economies believes that it would be all too much, and the Green Party believes that that would be too little. That's why I think: It could have been right, too, what we have presented. I think this is very bad – not because of personal sensitivity, but because it does not solve a problem either. We have just moved the problem further, but moving it further will make the solution more difficult for us because we have lost time. However, I am glad – even if we have not solved this issue – that part of the other provisions and proposals will now be implemented with this package. This is perhaps the most important point with regard to the public and NGOs: the implementation of this so-called 3. Nuclear power summits from April of the previous year, with us now performing the complete labelling of electricity in Austria. I also ask you – whoever has spoken or will still talk – to be correct in the name. We do not prohibit the flow of nuclear energy, nor the transit or transit, but we precisely regulate the labelling of electricity. Although the final effect on the same comes out because we also have the internal Austrian obligation of all suppliers, a voluntary obligation that they will not offer a nuclear current in the label; that would also be reprehensible. But it already has a certain importance in the direction of the EU's demands, for it is known to you to all or those who have dealt with the subject matter that the EU has expressed concerns in the course of notification, because it has been a question of whether it is technical barriers to trade. And we have tried to dissuade these concerns accordingly, because we are not going into a breach with full and conscious perspective. We have also tried to clarify that a foreign operator and supplier of electricity will be treated as well as an domestic operator and not with additional requirements. Therefore: This is a clarification, a concrete implementation and includes the electricity labelling obligation by 2015 also for the field of industry. This has already been largely implemented in the household sector. We have also cleared out the problem of pumping storage, namely the suspicion or accusation that pumping storage power plants derive the energy for the pumping jump they need in order to supply clean energy again from nuclear power. And we now also have the obligation of fossil power generation plants from 100 kW in Austria to be certified, which prevents the creation of domestic gray electricity from happening from the outset. It is also clear what this is all about. Part of the electricity we have on the grid in Austria is gray electricity. And after having been a certain proportion of nuclear power in the case of gray electricity, we now foresee that we can also prove this gray stream with certificates accordingly. It is likely to be correct in the assumption that no one in Austria will then certify nuclear power, because that is not common in the market until now. I assume that we will also influence EU policies, because the question will also be relevant to Germany in a few years. When Germany exits, the electricity label in 2022 will be so important that the customer has no interest in having French or Czech nuclear power on the grid. But this is a matter that Germany needs to clarify. In principle, I believe it is against the background that we do not want and do not want electricity from nuclear power plants, a sound and serious process. As regards the implementation of the so-called REMIT Regulation and administrative judicial adjustment, we have provided for the prohibition of insider trade and market manipulation. The difference to the stock market is the following: In the case of the stock exchange, only the person involved in speculative or other transactions is affected, while in the field of electricity trading each consumer is affected by such manipulations when he is supplied. We have – and I can assure Mr Widmann that it was a suggestion from him – set out measures to speed up the change of suppliers accordingly. Because the observation is correct: In Austria we have an exchange rate of 1.1 percent for electricity customers, and for gas customers it is slightly better: one of 1.7 percent. By comparison, Germany: 6.3 percent for electricity and 9.5% for gas. In other countries, in Scandinavia detto. What does that mean when we question it even more precisely? These possibilities are relatively unknown with us and are considered difficult. Therefore, with the online provider change, which of course also belongs to the application – and via e-control and so on will also be informed – we have created the possibility of unbureaucratic, faster and easier to change providers in order to bring more competition into the market. That is why I see this possibility as very, very positive. We also have a few points of improvement in terms of commitment periods, termination periods. I do not want to mention them in detail now, in view of the advanced time, you have already carried them out in part. That's all right. We have another point – this has been raised by the introductory speaker on this item on the agenda – as regards data protection and improvements in data security in Smart Metering. And we have worked out these improvements together, ladies and gentlemen. However, I tell you that smart metering should not worsen the cost situation in consumers, but rather improve it. All institutions as well as the EU and the regulator expect consumers to save €400 million in Austria. On the issue of: Who pays the costs for the conversion of the system? The e-control assumes that there will not be any significant additional costs here, because they already pay € 2 for the readers and for the corresponding documentation. If you convert this, Smart Metering, after a monitoring by e-control is also provided, will be expected and will not lead to additional costs for the consumer. We have also foreseen some improvements in terms of the cost situation in these laws as regards the framework conditions for pump storage and power-to-gas technology. This is a question of avoiding a double burden by using charges, both as a feeder and as a consumer, and at least temporarily providing for a temporary exemption from these grid tariffs. All of this will improve the competitiveness of domestic energy producers, but above all competition towards consumers in such a way that the development of liberalisation we want, which is also sought, will continue. I would like to thank everyone, especially the parliamentary parties and the energy spokesperson negotiators, for the fact that we can achieve a rather common approach, I believe, even unanimously. I believe that this is also important as a signal for the consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e24939	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e24960	Madam President. Federal Minister! It is nice to see that we have issues where, in cooperation with the parties, there are relatively agreed solutions. I am expressly grateful to the Federal Minister for what he has said, what Wolfgang Katzianshon has also done, and I am not sure whether everyone – you, for example – who has tried to prevent energy efficiency law from concluding now – no, I have already pointed to the right thing, that the energy- [[towards ÖVP-Deputies from the Farmers' Federation]] [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] efficiency law is not coming now, not under any circumstances later, namely soon, will wake up, because this House will have to do something very quickly in the new period here very, very quickly. I therefore give this as an advice, because the attempt to recognize it was so that the Greens would be to blame alone. We should admit it openly: Although there was such a long and good preparation, we did not end it. The positive things have been listed. We have a number of improvements – with the advertising drop energy efficiency. We have the implementation of all that was agreed with the Federal Chancellor after Fukushima at the summit a year ago. We also need to be clear with all the enthusiasm we show, it is a kind of educational task that we have in the population. It is intended to learn from its bill purposefully through the supplier to decide where the electricity is generated. Only, at the exchange rates we have – hopefully now better online – will the effect be rather an end-willing one. Here it will be further task to advertise the population: Buy a target! I'm allowed to make a small joke addition to the pumped storage power plants. We've got this inside now. We must no longer look back at other power plants where primary energy comes from, because otherwise one would come to the idea and say that even fossil substances were once solar energy, 560 million years ago. Therefore, the advice to let it be used and not to believe that one can withdraw a chain until the end. It's a good law. It's nice that we can decide together. It is good that there is still so much cooperation in one election year, including an extensive amendment. And once again to the Federal Minister, I would like to thank him for expressing this very openly. I hope that it will give us the opportunity to finalise the Energy Efficiency Act as soon as possible in the next GP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25018	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25039	Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has asked us to be precise when we call the success of the law, and now, as a lawyer and data protection spokesman, I have the difficult task of trying this exercise. I'll try. It is a great success that we introduce a labelling obligation, which will practically lead to a nuclear import ban on certification. Is that correct? [[Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner is aware of this.]] Very good, thank you! A great success, not a question. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: This is important to the EU by law!]] It is important to me as a lawyer in EU law. We do not want this measure then to be tipped off by a infringement procedure. So, the second reason I'm talking about is not just because I'm happy about the success, but because I'm a big concern as a data protection speaker of the Smart Meter part. This law regulates the framework conditions for the use of the Smart Meter. All those who are dealing with this issue in the house know that the smart meters have been introduced since 2010. What we're doing today is trying to repair. We introduced the Smart Meter in 2010 – “we” is wrong, the Greens did not!, SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ have introduced the Smart Meter – largely without data protection regulations. And this has already been a serious case of sin, because this reduces the negotiating weight of the data protectors – and that is what I am saying now in the direction of FPÖ – because this law can only be amended by a two-thirds majority. If we had negotiated data protection conditions at the time, we would have been in a strong negotiating position. Because this did not happen at the time and we now have to look for a two-thirds majority for data protection provisions, we are in a difficult negotiating position. That's actually a problem. Now it is that we are basically not against smart meters, but the data protection standards are particularly important to us. We could have made it easy now and said that this does not correspond to the green notions, so we reject the law. However, we have not made it easy, and my colleague Christiane Brunner, who has negotiated this law, has also negotiated the data protection provisions. I would like to emphasize: together with our employee Wolfgang Nickelfeld, who has achieved a lot here together with Christiane Brunner. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are now also some improvements to the data protection provisions in the law, above all the opt-out possibility, which is anchored. That is, the end consumer cannot be forced to the smart meter, he can opt out of the smart meter. The second point, which is important: The reading of quarter-hours is only possible with an opt-in of the end-user, and it is ensured that there is a basic tariff which is based on a daily reading. Also, that remote switching is not possible in the context of mass shutdown, but needs a warning procedure is a success. However, as a data protector, I do not hide that this is not all we want, and that the data protection frameworks would look different if we could shape them alone, and I am also in favour of mentioning the weaknesses here, because the debate must continue. We lack a certification procedure that always guarantees the highest data protection standards. The fact that the Federal Government has the option of quotaing the opt-out possibilities from the smart meter through a regulation is also unacceptable to us. Moreover, from the point of view of data protection, the fact that a quarter of an hour is still possible for statistical and steering considerations is not acceptable. Now there is a negotiation result, and, you probably know this all in politics, it's about the question: Is the glass half full, is it half empty? These are the questions that policy must always ask itself. The Green Club has also asked this question, we have discussed it together and have concluded: It outweighs improvements and successes in the practical nuclear import ban. That is why our position is that the Green Group will vote in favour of the law. But I will vote differently in person, I will vote against it, in consultation with my group, not my group, because it was our concern to place a sign here that the debate on data protection is not over, but that in reality the debate on higher standards of protection must continue. In this sense, from an ecological point of view, the law is a very, very great success and from a data protection perspective an improvement, but we strive for even better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25100	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25131	Madam President. Minister! Dear colleague Pendl! High house! Mr Brunner! The summits at the Federal Chancellor were not ominous, they were politically successful! There were three summits in which the Federal Government, at the initiative of Chancellor Werner Faymann, negotiated intensively with Global 2000, Greenpeace and the e-Industrie. They will not believe that it was easy to convince the Austrian industry that it would voluntarily refrain from buying cheap nuclear power from 2015. In view of this, the electricity marking is a great political success that the entire federal government, which the whole Parliament has to make, but now has to do with it, as if it had finally become nothing without the green interventions, I would like to reject in every respect, because it would also be unfair to Global 2000 and Greenpeace, which have really been very intensive. [[Abg. Dr Glavischnig-Piesczek: But to be reunited before the Parliament has decided is not decent!]] What is actually being implemented now is – I say now also as a learned electric technician – that the electricity gets a mesh. In order to communicate this to the viewers as well: The power now gets a mesh. In the future, anyone, whether in industry or in the household, can understand from which sources the electricity is imported. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this sense, the national antiatomic consensus has again taken a big step forward. I thank you for this consensus and, above all, the German Chancellor Werner Faymann for his initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25193	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall vote on the draft law in 2389 of the Supplements. Hiezu is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Katzian, Mr Mag. Brunner, Mag. Rainer Widmann, Ing. Mr Lugar, ladies and gentlemen. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law and the amendment mentioned above contain constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Peter Haubner, Katzian, Mag. Brunner, Mag. Rainer Widmann, Ing. Lugar, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional or amendment concerning Articles 1, 2 and 3. Whoever agrees to these amendments, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority. I expressly note once again the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:39:39]] 28. Point Report by the Committee on Tourism on amendment 2353/A(E) by Mrs Gerhard Huber, ing. May. Hubert Kuzdas, Franz Hörl, Mag. Roman Haider, Dr. Gabriela Moser, Stefan Markowitz, colleagues on measures to support tourism businesses affected by recent natural disasters (2476 d.b.) 29. Point Report by the Committee on Tourism on Amendment No 2352/A(E) by Mrs Ing. May. Hubert Kuzdas, Gabriel Obernosterer, Mag. Roman Haider, Dr. Gabriela Moser, Gerhard Huber, Stefan Markowitz, colleagues on the overall concept of rural tourism (2477 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25333	We come to points 28 and 29 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Hörl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25363	Madam President. Federal Minister! Minister of Tourism! We are dealing with two motions for resolutions today: one dealing with the importance of tourism in rural areas, one which we naturally would like to support, but which would not have been so insanely necessary, because we had sufficient support in this government and in this legislative period, as I believe, and one second on support for tourism businesses affected by recent natural disasters. Of course, with this request we also support our Federal Minister, who has already become active on his own initiative. It is true that the financial cover for the recovery costs of the disaster fund and also the possibilities of the ERP, the ÖHT and the AWS are given. Due to the scale of the damage we suffered in recent months, where almost all the river landscapes in Austria were affected, our natural jewels along the Danube, the Inn, and where Salzburg has also been pitied – the Bundessektionsobmann Schinner has said that we had only 20 percent of the population there in June – the costs for damages in individual cases amount to € 600 000 to € 800 000. This concerns small and medium-sized enterprises, small restaurants and shank gardens. I would also like to stress the incredible performance of our fire brigades, the many volunteer helpers – in Arnsdorf, for example, even the employees of the Chamber of Commerce – as well as fire brigades from other federal states, the farmers, young farmers, mountain rescuers, musicians and shooters, all who helped there. I would like to thank them all very much. I think this great achievement in our Austria can make you proud. And I'm also glad that we have a federal army where we have the general military duty. Now, I believe, it has confirmed for the first time that we need the German army when the volunteers are exhausted and have to go back into their professional life. It was necessary to support, and the Federal Minister has already done so: €500 000 in addition to advertising for Austria. This help was very, very necessary, because there was also a flood in our markets in Germany and the booking behaviour was very, very modest for this reason and we all had to fight for the telephones and the Internet lines, if they were in operation at all, to remain quiet. The Federal Minister has responded, and I would like to thank you very much, Mr Tourism Minister. The help came quickly, and she was professional above all. And we can also play in the world that Austria's tourist regions and holiday jewels are again cleaned up, clean and holiday-fit and can come to us guests. I am particularly pleased, Mr Federal Minister, that we have also been able to deal with the problem of East Tyrol, which is another one. There, the enterprises of God were not in need, but did not suffer any damage, but because of the rock falls on the Felbertauernstraße, access from the north is missing. We were able to reach that we were provided with 400 000 € for East Tyrol advertising from the side of the Tyrolean government. Osttirol advertising is now called upon to present a concept together with Tyrol advertising. And the Federal Minister has promised that the Austrian advertising will then also support it, so that we can say: The country is fit, it is beautiful to shine the natural jewels, and the guests are invited to come. Guests can also come through the Großglockner Hochalpenstraße. Here, discount was introduced with booking confirmation. You can come across the Tauern motorway, also via the Pusteria valley and over the Staller saddle. There it is. Accesses. And that is what we want to tell people in Germany, the Netherlands and also in Austria that they are to come. In addition, the Tyrolean government has decided that we are taking appropriate advertising measures at Kaiserwinkel, so that we can help people there too. I thank you once again, Minister Mitterlehner, for the quick and professional help. Those who help quickly and professionally help twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25429	Mr Hell is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25451	Madam President. Federal Minister! The terms “Tourism” and “rural space” are very closely linked, because the natural and cultural space outside the cities represents a attraction for many holiday guests, short-travelers, day-guests and on the other hand for many people relaxation and relaxation. In addition, this area also allows for a wide range of services of an independent pillar, which represents economic and employment alternatives. In general, tourism and the leisure industry have a very central economic importance for Austria, both value added and labour market policy. In my opinion, however, the importance of small regions and communities for the tourism and leisure industry has been underestimated in the past. Many strategies and development plans have focused on the well-known tourist sites and urban areas. That was also important and necessary. But we should also think further and consider new market opportunities here. The rural area can also be considered. Rural tourism combines market-oriented developments in the regions with economic and employment alternatives. It contributes to regional value added. It allows the use of existing capacity and regional resources. It promotes cooperation with agriculture and small businesses. And rural tourism, which is in line with nature, culture and people, offers structurally weak regions the opportunity to improve their living and economic situation. Ladies and gentlemen! Tourist rural future regions will only emerge if the regions do not work against each other but work together and develop reasonable strategies. It is important to pay attention to changing customer needs, and rural offers need to be developed, staged and marketed in the future. The Federal Government, countries, regions, municipalities and tourist associations must therefore work together innovatively in the planning and implementation of projects, as the tourism industry and the overall economy in the regions and rural areas benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25488	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25511	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Two all-party requests from the Tourism Committee – of course, both of us will agree. Only: Allow me, according to Mr Hörl's praises, to make a few critical comments on the government's actions. First of all, about the overall concept of tourism in rural areas. The tourist capitals, such as the cities in winter tourism, are very well open. 86 percent of all sales are in rural areas. In truth or right it would have to be called: Overall concept for the tourist peripheral regions – because they are excluded from general growth in Austria, and there are definitely measures to be taken. That is why we have also supported this request. The second request concerns the support of tourism companies affected by recent natural disasters. What has happened so far? – The Austrian advertising receives a special budget of €500 000 for the initiative “Now Austria”. This will improve the booking situation. And tourism companies affected by floods receive free ERP credits, free of charge and the like. That's all right. Just, ladies and gentlemen: It's too little! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I myself come from a community that is seriously affected by the floods, from Aschach on the Danube in Upper Austria, and I have experienced it in close proximity, or even now I experience very close by, that many tourist companies are considering whether they can still lock up after at least half the damage has been eliminated. There is more to it and more to it. And there are measures like ERP's credit, but they're too little, and above all they're too long. Here, concrete measures, such as the suspension of payments to occupational social security, other tax evasions, or at least the full depreciation of all investments and rapid direct payments, would have been the right measures. But, unfortunately, this government cannot get through. Especially in the tourism report which we discussed in the last Tourism Committee, the financial situation, particularly as regards the equity of tourism companies, is clearly reflected. There really should have been more targeted measures. Finally, as the chairman of the Committee on Tourism, let me take a brief look at the following: We have managed in the Tourism Committee to make 17 joint requests to vote in the course of the legislative period. In my opinion, this is really an important sign for tourism, namely that the interest in the matter has been put in the foreground and party politics has been held back together. So I see it with a smiling but also with a crying eye, as many important concerns, common concerns, but also concerns of the opposition, such as the index adjustment of the contribution of the budget to Austria's advertising – Mrs. Moser nodds; a long-standing demand from us – unfortunately not carried by the government parties. Even in order to halve VAT on Logis and, above all, to adjust the amortisation period to the actual duration of use, the two government parties were unable to get through. That's really something you should write up on your To-do list for the next period.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25566	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25587	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that, as so often in the Tourism Committee, we want to support businesses that have now suffered from the natural disaster. It is also clear that the overall approach to rural areas is necessary. But one thing is even more important to me, and that is why I am now putting this problem at the heart of a very consensual debate, namely the problem of a so-called carrier of tourism in Austria, the problem of organisations in Austria, which are very voluntary for the tourist development of the Alps, for the tourist development of the mountain world, namely the problem of the financing of the Alpine associations. We have raised this problem in our motions for resolutions. They are about natural disasters, they are also about rural areas. But the real problem for me is why the Minister, why this government, why you, as majority representatives, do nothing to finally improve the financial precarious situation of the Alpine associations. I only illustrate this briefly with three, four numbers. You know, there are 475 shelters and there are 50,000 km of alpine roads. We have a promotion based on the year 1992. That's €1.5 million. And we still have that, as we said. We need at least €4.6 million, support for the Alpine clubs, if we adjust this only to inflation. And what sum do we have? – We endure at €1.5 million. And for me, this is a subversive thinning of the infrastructure for hiking tourism. Mr Minister, you are right, because in your tourism strategy, hiking tourism is a brand for Austria. The one side is cultural tourism, the other side is hiking tourism. And the heart of hiking tourism are the paths, the huts, the tourist accommodation and the gastronomy. But without roads and without huts, our country is much less attractive. And above all one more – and I don't understand at all –: The public hand promotes a lift project in East Tyrol with € 13 million. I emphasize: With 13 million €! Please, if you divide this, it's six to seven times as much as the Alpine clubs get all year round. A single project will receive the donation of the public hand for the Alpine clubs six to seven times. I have to say: That's really scandalous! I know there is the Alpenverein, which is more close to the ÖVP, and there are nature lovers who are supported by the SPÖ, and both demand more budget. That is why, as a green person, I now make the following request, since I am with both members: [[Quoted print version removed]] Take this to heart: The huts also need financial security! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25647	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25750	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25771	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! As a tourist speaker of the BZÖ, I am glad that we can help the East Tyrol companies, the Iseltal companies today. The request was my initiative, an initiative of the BZÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I should like to remind you of the words of Mr Hörl, who said he agreed, but he would not have been mad enough to do so. Dear ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== June the Hotel Rauter Obwexer in Matrei, a four-star house with 40 employees, has locked up instead. ==References== Unfortunately, a great accident happened on the Felbertauernstraße in May. It took three days for Landes Captain Platter to find the effort to drive to East Tyrol. The plants suffer most, as this separation now requires transport routes that cost at least €300 per truck. And there are fifty companies that have 30, 40 vehicles every day. So that's huge damage. The gas station owners alone have a 90 percent reduction in sales, and tourism companies also suffer massively. Mr Hörl has said that the state government is promoting East Tyrol advertising with €400 000, and this isolated Iseltal is also accessible via South Tyrol, it can also be reached via the Großglockner. But it is unattainable for the economy. The companies are all empty, have sales losses of at least 70 percent. They've got ours. He deserves help. That's why I went here and immediately committed myself to this request. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Federal Minister, I will do everything I can to ensure that: They really do help these farms right away, because this is a rural region that is already facing emigration because of this ÖVP government. But tourism is an important part, is a building block of this rural area. And if we don't help there now, then we don't need to help anymore, then every help comes too late.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25822	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25844	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The two six-party applications are really important and correct. And I can't say it often enough: We had a flood situation in June, where it caught many farms, not only from the wall that came down there. That was really disastrous. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Because of the rainfall and the bad weather that we had in May, the farms everywhere have enormous losses. I talked to many people in the businesses, mostly in Carinthia, and they told me: We will not pick up the May again, even with a super July, although the booking numbers are just too sensational; it looks really good. I think that's where we all have to go. Mr Hörl's speech of praise was really unique. Yes, we are also trying to find common solutions in the Tourism Committee, to draw on and say: Okay, everybody has good suggestions and every party brings in applications. The most important thing in tourism is keeping one together. We can see it with weak structures, with regions that do not survive. We have said that we want to train many apprentices and, above all, we want to try to make tourism businesses again year-round. Therefore, TOP 29 is also so important to encourage this six-party proposal to attract tourism, so that more farms can survive or be open all year round. That's the turn and go. But when you hear that there is some discussion about it again – just because this year is a super-election year – to double the VAT on Logis, exactly from 10 percent to 22 percent, since everyone has to be aware that this is not the case then. [[Abg. Hörl: That only says the industry!]] Please? [[Abg. Hörl: That only says the industry!]] Yes, Mr Hörl, that's what industry says; I'll give you all the right. That is why I will also make a request because we all have to prevent this from happening. It does not matter if we invest money on the one hand – these 500 000 are good and right – but if on the other hand we are told that we are increasing VAT! They can't do that anymore! That is why I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is very important, and I therefore ask you not to take a step in the wrong direction, but to find a solution together so as not to harm businesses. In rural areas, we know that this is going in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e25913	The application submitted is under negotiation. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: We did not understand him, Mr President!]] [[Abg. Hörl: That was a...!]] – No VAT increase on Logis was requested in this application. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26004	Mr Bundesminister Dr. Mitterlehner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26026	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very positive and great if you put forward motions for resolutions describing what we have already done. But wonderful, we're at least the same. This concerns the one point that has been raised as regards rural areas and the particular support there. We have taken appropriate measures and will soon present a study. This has not been misappropriated. In the final effect, 85 percent of all nights are not in the urban area, but in the rural area. But there are still a number of ways to get the offer and various other things, for example, the organisational structure to force that. What's going on is the second point: On the issue of floods, I would be a little more cautious in certain terms, because claiming that there is too little being done on this issue, because it would be necessary, and that is still necessary, half the truth. Mr Haider, as you have referred to businesses in the region of Aschach: Show me the ones that haven't returned to operation. That's relatively few. [[Abg. May. Haider: But there are them!]] I was there last week and I can say that these are very, very few farms. Most farms are open again. What you have forgotten, Mr Haider, is that, in order to cope with the crisis that has occurred through the flood, the disaster fund has also come into existence accordingly. The people in the farms I was in have said that it is very positive that this has gone so fast and that they have already received corresponding liquid resources. What we are doing is an addition, which is also very positive. You have forgotten one thing, Mr Haider: This is not only made free of interest and free of charge for six years, but also free of charge for three years. That means that this is a concrete help for the companies – and they see it that way. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Therefore: Listen I would like to ask you what else would be necessary, because our actions have already proved themselves and will continue to prove themselves. Mrs. Moser, before you get out of the hall [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No, I just want...!]] With this infinite unsituation, please that the Committee always decides something where it has no competence, and tells me that we should increase the amount of advertising in the context of Austria's advertising. – But I have no other means to do this, and you cannot approve it either. In the final effect, the activity of Austria advertising is measured by what is achieved by the stabilised means towards tourism figures. We had an all-time high last year, which is what the number of nights reaches, with 131 million nights – and that in times when there is already a crisis for the fifth year. – And you want to expand and expand the advertising media?- Oh, my God! For what? There is efficiency because we have streamlined these measures accordingly. This also applies to the area of flood. We've been waiting 14 days now, but not to say: After my God, let's wait! For: If you're making flood marketing, so to speak, saying, If you visit Austria! and if you switch it somewhere in regions that are still busy with cleaning up work – in the Czech Republic, for example, in Hungary or in Germany – this may be counterproductive if we boast, we have done everything again, but in other countries it is still working on it. That is why I think it is right, above all, to apply for the domestic market, which has already helped us very much in the crisis – in 2009. Now what's going on with the Alpine hats: This is actually a very unfair matter, because, Mrs Moser, you have repeated exactly what was seen on Sunday in the TV broadcast “Hohes Haus”. These numbers are wrong, wrong, three times wrong, but you repeat that. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No, the numbers...!]] That's wrong! It is not true that €1.5 million has been made available for the shelters and the entire expansion programme for 20 years and that this has always been constant. – This claim is wrong! In recent years we have always made €2.25 million available for this, which is € 750 000 more. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not television! It's the Alpenvereins newspaper!]] This may also be wrong in the Alpenvereinszeitung. In any event, I find it unfair to ask for consolidation and savings programmes everywhere, because on every occasion you, Mrs Moser, and other colleagues, go out here and say: Where does the government save? Where are you more efficient? Where do you make corresponding reductions?, but then, as if there had been no crisis, as if Austria were standing for itself as a state in no one's country alone, you demand increases everywhere. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: And the scrapping premium we would like to have gone!]] [[Abg. Head: With the new taxes!]] To put this into relation with a ski lift project in East Tyrol, that is totally unsanitary! That's not what we're funding. Is that from the federal budget? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: (keeping a document in height) Also a promotion!]] What do you have for a note? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's what the Alpenverein says!]] – Is the Alpenverein and the Alpenvereins-Zeitung any publication with an increased claim for truth – or is the budget of the claim for truth? [[Abg. Brosz: The budget under the claim of truth, that is particularly funny!]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mrs Moser, listen to me! I'll tell you: That's wrong what's inside, even what you've quoted there, is wrong. We have – I regret that one does not have the fairness to admit that – although there have been budget cuts due to the crisis, all these organisations have made 300 000 € in addition this year. [[Abg. Brosz: “Elevation of Truth ”! He was good!]] But instead of presenting it accordingly, you go here and say: No, actually, an increase to 4.6 million would be necessary! – Well wonderful, but give me the budget cover for it! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where are the hypo billions in which budget?]] A cover is also inside the Alpenvereinszeitung? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: I wanted to copy it to you!]] Is the cover also given? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We need 1.5 million...!]] Then bring me another proposal if the money is there. Otherwise, I really think it's under the belt line and completely wrong. [[Abg. Hörl: Mrs. Moser, this is unheard of!]] In other areas too, there would be very welcome and necessary circumstances to increase. Therefore: Don't try to get political change with such things – and pack these newspapers again!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26272	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26293	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The figures show that tourism is the most stable economic factor in this crisis. And we also know that there have been no budgetary cuts – whether that is advertising in Austria or not. But, unfortunately, it is not possible to increase budget resources at this time. Mrs Moser, I know the shelters very well, I am at home. You know where I'm home? – With us is the Karnische Höhenweg, one of the most beautiful Alpine club areas at all, also from the Alps, from the huts. I also know what's being invested there, from one hut to another, Wolayersee, Hochweißsteinhaus and so on. Of course, you can always say that it is too little, but if you look at the funding in this area, you have to say that a lot of voluntary work is done in this area, in the road markings, but also in the lower area, also in every tourism association. There is also voluntary work everywhere and the paths are marked on their own initiative. Without that, everything would not be possible, this entire road network. 1 500 inhabitants, for example in the municipality of Lesachtal: More than 300 kilometers of marked hiking trails, the locals do everything for nothing! It's the same way it's up there. You can believe me, I know what I'm talking about. These funds for the hiking clubs, the Alpenverein or whatever their exact name, are not only economic pursuits. We know that more than € 2 million is coming from the Sporttotototo. [[Abg. Listen, listen!]] We also know that there are approximately €650 000 from the municipal water fund. This area is thus already equipped with several pots so that it is possible to make the most necessary there. But back to the requests: As has been said, the application is to halve VAT, the other request for VAT to be maintained. We know that in Austria we are at least in the dining area at a VAT rate, which we are envied internationally. We are clearly in the lower quarter with our VAT rate on the Logis and the food sector. Markowitz, I have to congratulate you! That's what I'm saying quite clearly. We must be glad to keep this tax rate and see that it does not go up. We don't need to talk about a reduction. This is also not required by the tourism industry. The two requests on the table have this great importance for me today, as I have said, because they are unanimous because we are unanimous in that tourism has its place, especially in the rural area, where we know that tourism is the only way to acquire and stop migration. The second area is the increase for the Austrian advertising, for the application at this time, in which now, as said, was with the Felbertauern and with the floodwater. This has once again shown that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Austria's advertising can react quickly, quickly! I think it is important not to give money fix anywhere, whether it's good or bad, but to intervene when it's necessary. This was done here, and I think that's the right thing to do. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26330	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26351	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the six-party proposal for an overall approach in the rural area, which is based on an initiative by our tourism spokesperson Heidrun Silhavy. I myself come from a rural area in Salzburg and have been able to see the changes in tourism in recent decades. In the 1970s, the so-called simple tourist rooms for many guests, especially from Germany, were very much in demand in our place. Rooms mostly booked for three to four weeks. The arrival in the Pinzgau was by train or by bus. The bookings were made in the long term via the travel agency. In the meantime everything has actually changed: the countries of origin of the guests, the type of arrival, the length of stay, the type of reservation et cetera, et cetera. But not all tourist well visited places from once have been able to change with. A part could change, others remained on the track in the truest sense of the word. I believe that accommodation establishments, municipalities, cultural and leisure associations, all those providing tourist infrastructure, have often not or will not be considered as a whole in terms of concepts and strategies, which would be absolutely necessary for a functioning rural tourism. More and more people are looking for recreation, peace and natural experiences in their own country. We have a wide variety of holiday opportunities. This could give rise to more opportunities for strengthening, extending the low season and a year-round tourism, which is very often lacking in the rural regions. On the way, I believe that national and EU funding, regional policy and tourism promotion should work much more together and create a balance between the strong and structurally weak regions. Tourism is an industry which has potential for the future even in difficult times, with regard to jobs, improving infrastructure, but also value added. I believe that the future government is called upon to raise and actually exploit the development potential in the leisure and tourism sectors. The concerns of an industry that generates a huge share of GDP should not be ignored. Finally, I believe that it must be the top objective of a rural tourism concept to create as good a framework as possible for all those involved in tourism. These include know-how regarding various funding options, transfer of knowledge on innovative, sustainable projects as well as fair payment and conditions for workers, as well as cooperation at various levels.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26397	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26418	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Obernosterer, it is not this way that tourism does not call for the halving of VAT rates – to be read in the largest tourist newspaper, that exactly the three points that Mr Haider mentioned are required of tourism, half the VAT, reduction or adjustment of the depreciation period and increase of the budget for Austria, very probably by tourism. I think it's not all you mean, tourism. It can already be seen that the Austrian tourism industry is behind it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the two requests: Yes, help for farms affected by the storm – it is very good that it was responded, very good that it was helped. But, Minister, I can still remember that even at the time of the economic crisis, I think, €22 million went to the car scrapping premium. This money was lost, stuffed. In this way, it would also be possible here to give these companies money as a lost grant, not only in the form of credit interest. You can certainly do something more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The topic of the overall approach to rural tourism or rural tourism: We have very serious problems here, I think, especially with small businesses. Austria is very small-structured from tourism companies. I think we need a lot of help. In one I must also contradict you: These companies are all year-round farms and they are very likely to pay the disbursement. Finally, in the committee, you said they didn't pay a resolution. It is precisely these companies that are concerned and today think about recruiting an employee, or are often more willing... [[Abg. Obernoster:... are twelve-month employees...!]] Please, look at this! Do you know how often you are in the situation that you only need an employee for one or two months? – And you're thinking today to stop him, that's the truth! Of course, as a year-round operation already. [[Abg. Hörl: Under six months...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] What I believe, however, is what we still have as a very big problem in tourism, especially the small farms when they offer hiking trails and the like, that is the permanent issue of liability. Today you almost no longer get permission from a farmer for a bike path or for a hiking trail, because the liability question is so oppressive. It would be nice if at some point it would be longer to take the issue of liability from the owners of the land, because then we could make it much easier for the communities, of the tourism companies, to offer the movement in free nature. I believe that this is a market gap that we, the small businesses, or the small farms in the rural communities could close, where we can make a lot of offers with little money. Perhaps we can start a common approach here sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26486	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26507	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Tourism is an important economic factor in Austria and contributes 7.5 percent of GDP to economic performance. Over 5 percent of the people working in Austria, around 200 000, are employed in the tourism sector. Tourism ensures sustainable jobs, but also value added especially in rural regions. The present resolution on the overall concept of tourism in rural regions aims to ensure that synergies are used to increase cooperation between local authorities and businesses in rural regions. In this respect, the future in Burgenland has already begun. All the municipalities around the Neusiedler See has already joined forces with Neusiedler See Tourismus GmbH in recent years. That is to say, projects are planned, implemented, in fact, together with the accommodation companies, the municipalities, but also with farms, with winegrowers. The product of this cooperation is that the stagnation figures in the region are rising. I would just like to mention a comparison number: In May 2013, there was an increase of 6 percent compared to May 2012, even in economically difficult times. We also try to create a common offer in Burgenland with natural tourism or to force ecotourism. Another motion for a resolution concerns the rapid provision of financial resources for tourism companies affected by natural disasters. I support this proposal to 100 percent. This is also an all-party request. However, I would like to remind you that rapid and unbureaucratic financial assistance must also benefit private households. I can also mention that a request from the Minister of Finance of April this year states that at the end of 2012 Austrian companies had tax residues of €1.4 billion. If only a partial amount of these tax residues comes into the federal disaster fund, private households can also: be helped quickly and safely. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26549	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We come to the votes. Firstly, we shall vote on item 28, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 2476 of the Supplements on measures to support tourism businesses affected by the recent natural disasters. I would like to ask those Members who support this request for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 321.) We come to the vote on item on the agenda 29, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 2477 on the general concept of tourism in rural areas. Whoever supports this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 322) We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Moser, colleagues, on more support for the infrastructure for sustainable alpine tourism provided by the Alpine organisations. In case of consent, I ask you for your supporting sign. – This request is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Markowitz, ladies and gentlemen, on no increase in VAT on Logis. Whoever supports this, I ask for a sign of approval. – The request is rejected. [[23:23:57]] 30. Point Report by the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1226/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Social Fund for Housing (WGG) (2478 d.b.) 31. Point Report by the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 2228/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues, on the introduction of a tax on reserves of non-profit-making cooperatives that exceed the limit of 10 percent of the balance sheet amount (2479, e.g.) 32. Point Report by the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 2229/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the abolition of the compulsion of non-profit-making housing cooperatives according to Art. 1 § 5 (2) WGG defined revision associations (2480, e.g.) 33. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment No 2255/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek, colleagues in relation to the undue high interest rate on own resources of non-profit-making housing providers (2481, e.g.) 34. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment No 2256/A(E) by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, Members of Parliament, on measures to combat the rotational door effect in non-profit housing (2482, e.g.) 35. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment No 2263/A(E) by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues, on no place for speculators in non-profit housing (2483, e.g.) 36. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment No 2264/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek, colleagues on the separation of Community and private activities (2484, e.g.) 37. Point Report by the Building Committee on Amendment 2343/A(E) by Dr Susanne Winter, colleagues on the prohibition of speculation for non-profit building associations (2485 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26724	We come to points 30 to 37 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26754	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate we are having today is important. It is urgent because it is currently only being channeled outside and partly through the media. It is guided at a level that is neither good to the people nor good. The simple, everyday life becomes a luxury for many of our country's inhabitants. At the normal rental requirement, i.e. rent plus operating costs, it is actually evident to every tenant what the social competence of our government parties looks like. Both have been in power for decades and in government. What was the situation in recent years and is it still today? – There are thousands of apartments missing, we are talking about 10,000 to 15,000 apartments. We urgently need impulses for the construction industry. The housing performance of the common beneficiaries decreases dramatically by about 30 percent last year. The reserves in the same cooperatives are increasing. That's not my analysis, that's the analysis of Mr. Worm, the head of the GBV. First, a responsible government would have responded a long time ago – at least one, two years ago – and second, it would have changed laws and provided funds. I wonder, What do the employees in the cabins do all the time? What are the ministers doing? Because this poverty government has done nothing at least in the past five years, we have on the 15th. Our housing offensive presented in May. In a wonderful way, the Chamber of Labour, the SJ, companies such as Wienerberger or the representatives of the GBV themselves have said, yes, they are even behind some of these proposed measures. Then came this wonderful meeting of the Building Committee. We remember: We had 15 applications from the FPÖ and many more from the other colleagues in the opposition. We did not have to discuss any measure by the government parties. At football one would say that would be a 15 : 0 for the liberals. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Well!]] [[Abg. Head: Meet the ball, doesn't mean the gate is meeting!]] Mrs Bundesminister Karl has still limited himself to a discussion and a general debate where the rental law was discussed. Klubobmann's head! This has been done, knowing that we will not get cheap apartments for more socially weak, for young families through the rental law. That's, you have to say, inconceivable. We needed a reform of non-profit housing. We have presented this, and in the final effect, the government parties are relying on either adjourning or refusing the applications. As I praise directly the attitude of the Members of the BZÖ or of the Stronach team, who have gone away as – let us say now – second-hand or third-hand opposition members at all. They left the committee and obviously gave themselves a melange at the Café Landtmann. If so the concerns and concerns of the population are represented, while ever wider strata really suffers from poverty, I must say: Please do not refuse work and responsibility! Let's do something in the committees! Mr Kopf, scurry was in this context the reaction of the ÖVP. On the one hand, Mr Singer in the Committee has, for example, rejected the tax on reserves, and, shortly thereafter, Federal Minister Fekter even asked her to be able to imagine that she thought it was great because she could do something. It was like that a few times. You must explain this contradiction to me. I do not know whether this is related to the fact that Mr Singer is in the ÖAAB, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Farmers' Federation has said anything else. Maybe it was just a lack of coordination. [[Abg. Head: And if you just ask him?]] But let us come to the larger government party. There's this sign very nice, that's a noble address: Tuchlauben 8 in the first district. [[The speaker presented a photograph of the house of the address mentioned above on the speaker's desk.]] The SPÖ colleagues – as in part the ÖVP’s – simply act clearly on the partially illegal cooperatives. That was to be expected. After this election a number of former colleagues from the National Council as breakfast directors, board directors, or whatever happens in the cooperatives, will probably make themselves a nice life at the expense of the locals. If the social warmth is, I have to say: Yes, “social warmth” is, one takes care of one’s own friends, for one’s own representatives, for their board of directors, for noble downtown offices. But here we speak of the non-profit housing cooperative AUBBAU. AUBBAU provides places for workers – not long ago, when you look at it on the Internet. Social construction is similar, although it does not have a noble address, it has financed the Wiener SPÖ. This is not all that we imagine under common interest. Mr. Ruth Becher, after the committee, said that we wanted to crush the cooperatives. No, quite the contrary, we want to get them! But we want to keep them sporty so that they can make something for their tenants that they can build apartments, that they can get the money and build houses, that they do all this and not buy service cars, and that not former Members – even though Mr Pendl is not here – deserve Gagen as princes. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We imagine this among cooperatives that are non-profit – and not in common and self-profit. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They currently place something like a “quiet hand ” that you need or someone has. She already wanted the elected chancellor Schröder. This is because it has disassembled the social state in Germany. Do you also want to have people under Hartz IV, with 1-€ jobs that are unoccupied? – We definitely don't want her. In any case, ads and headlines do not make any apartment cheaper.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26844	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26881	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Deimek has just proved how difficult the right of residence is. He cannot distinguish between what Mrs Fekter asked for and her own request. A few words about it: The request we have rejected includes the circumcision of reserves of non-profit building associations. A brief introduction to this issue: In fact, the equity reserves for the public do not exist as liquid funds, but are used by 90 percent in real estates and apartments and are therefore not freely available. We are talking about 500 000 apartments throughout Austria. The rest is used for intermediate financing for the construction of apartments. In other words, the demand of FPÖ to tax reserves that exceed 10 percent of the balance sheet amount would be counterproductive from my point of view, because the use of equity is thereby sanctioned and the profitability of non-profit building associations is weakened, which in turn makes the construction of low-cost rental apartments more sustainable. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: No one understands that now! I don't think you're yourself. The balance sheet has been “surpassed ”?]] A word on the proposal of the Minister for Finance, namely, concerning the scheme in the Corporate Tax Act: It has made this proposal, namely that the planned maximum reserve capital period of five years should be adapted to the obligation to use within three years, as it has already been standardised in the housing public utility law, in order to intensify construction activity. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Why this discussion not a year ago?]] This reduction in the retention period is intended to provide an incentive to create additional housing, Mr Deimek. A few suggestions from the liberals on how to create a viable living space should be made: It is required that mandates be excluded during the term of their mandate and five years thereafter from the management functions, supervisory posts and the management of the companies subject to the housing public utility law. This would be equivalent to a professional ban, and all those coming from these non-profit associations would be excluded from mandates. So these are the FPÖ's proposals to create sustainable housing. One more word on the benefit of the community, or on the benefit of the community, because it is always called into question: Ladies and gentlemen! For me, the non-profit housing industry is an essential, stable and cost-effective factor in our entire housing economy. The construction capacity of the public is around 15,000 new housing units per year. That is to say, the common people are opposed to the scarcity of the living room, they are creating a uniform utilization of the construction industry, and thus the rental level is dampened accordingly. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Evenly safe!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are reasons why we will not agree with the eight requests made by the liberals who are going towards the restriction of non-profit. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: And where are the ÖVP's own proposals?]] A few comments on living in a sedentary position: From our point of view, we need to create adequate living space, and in the foreground new buildings, renovations and the reduction of the void. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Who is “we”?]] We need sustainable financing and a suitable land policy. We need deregulation in terms of quality standards and equipment, and we need significant operating costs. [[Abg. May. Stefan: This is a call, not a proposal!]] Only by a mix of measures will we be able to create a manageable living space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e26993	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27014	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me start with a quote from the “Süddeutsche Zeitung” about the CDU’s election program. There you can read that there should be a rental price brake. Note: CDU, Germany, rental price brake. Mr. Minister, you are responsible for the housing law on public utility. This is the one side, and I am also of the opinion of my previous speaker that we may be able to make detailed reforms, small reforms to improve, but there is no burning of the hat, because that is the area where rents can be manageable and, most of the time, can be manageable. But the hat burns there, where those people who, as it were, do not find accommodation in the common people's quota somehow, then move on the market and are partly confronted with horrendous prices – horrendous prices, which are quite similar to the rental price trend in Germany can be compared. That is why I briefly outlined the approach of the CDU, because – thanks to Merkel or any other dominant figure – it sees very well that rents have to be limited because living space is a finite property and cannot be produced in the usual form such as food, clothing or other items of daily need. I now look back on something that Mrs Karl has unfortunately missed. As early as 1999, I believe, one of the predecessors of Mrs. Karl, the Minister of Justice responsible for rent law, Michalek, has made a survey of the complex rental law in Austria – of housing law as a whole, which can only be conceived by a handful of experts at all. This survey has already summarized all that Mrs. Karl has now brought to pass through an expert round by the year 2014. That's what I'm asking myself: Why do you have to invent the world of rental or housing reform twice? – One can rely on this committee of experts. It also says – to read on page 55 – quite clearly and clearly: Mostly, the return to clear, comprehensible rent rates is supported. The view that the benchmark interest rate has proved to be good remains in the minority. To reduce the increase in operating costs, it is proposed, in particular – and so on and so on. These are proposals from 1999. We put her ad acta. I have to say you put her ad acta. I took them with me to bring them back to life in the face of the situation before us. It is clear that the common people can already degenerate the situation by means of new housing, only the new building from now will need expected four years. It takes four years until the newly built apartments are then released market-absorbing to the offer and the tenants who can draw people in. It takes time. But now we have to take immediate action, Mr Minister, not necessarily in the Law on non-profit-making, no, in the law on housing law or in the law on rent, and also in various dedications and measures that make building cheaper and simplify overall, with the standards, in the construction regulations et cetera. Because it is a fundamental problem that many young people, especially many students, young families – they are family ministers – cannot afford to live. And for me, it was an outrageous fact that this problem of life, which many people in this Parliament are dealing with only on the last print and on the pressure of the opposition fractions, is at all at all. Now, the rejection of liberal applications is the point of departure that we have at all a plenary discussion on this subject of life and existence. That is why I can only stress once again: Contact the CDU, contact the “C”, the Christian also in your party program, and at least consider that a rental price brake would make sense to take immediate action so that today and not only 2014, 2015 or 2016 will help people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27073	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27096	Mr President. Minister! The non-profit housing sector plays a crucial role in housing. That is why the Federal Government has also launched this housing offensive, in which 14 000 new, additional dwellings are to be built. It is not Parliament's task to make it possible to create a business with the basic need for living by weakening cooperatives, which ultimately also leads to a breakdown. Especially the FPÖ has not brought together anywhere it was responsible, whether it was Carinthia, whether it was in government or whether it was in the non-profit housing area. The past attempts by the FPÖ on non-profit residential areas have shown the impact of freedom of engagement in practice. As in your requests, the revision, the revision association is being made so badly and highly criticised, I have to say that there is no industry that is as well tested as the joint beneficiaries. The last insolvency there was by the FPÖ-near non-profit cooperative Free living. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] And there was one of the causes of too little equity. This has been shown several times by the revision, which has been demonstrated by the precise and good test. There were faulty lists, which were not met, and in the end this cooperative was also deprived of the common good. The tenants were not weakened thanks to the fact that others offered welfare solutions and the land of Lower Austria. Her colleague Rosenstingl had to go to prison for seven years and was released after three years. To the next point, to the property option that you are always addressed, and for sale: Here is your propaganda that almost free apartments are offered, property transfers at sluice prices. But what really happened in practice? – In 2001, your Minister of Finance, a FPÖ Minister, has been able to eliminate the use of public housing companies. In 2004, four common beneficiaries were sold to a private provider. To a large extent, the apartment tenants were prevented from buying the apartment. Finally, 62,000 apartments have been privatized and sold, 12 percent of the public benefit. The population's housing has not been given priority in your case, which was not a key issue, but rather budget consolidation. There the equity has been used for purposes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] The follow-up costs are still available for cooperatives and the economy today, and I can show you this. Last week I received two letters from tenants in Innsbruck at the BUWOG, who complain bitterly about how the private people are dealing with them. You only have more temporary rental contracts that will not be extended. The private do not listen to the tenants being pushed out of the apartments. Unfortunately, theirs is not to help. This has been sold in 2004, and the legal situation is as it is. It must be said, in principle, that the housing benefit law for rental apartments is established. The money remains in the housing cycle and is intended to be reinvested. The principles of non-profit housing – cost coverage, profit reduction, equity – have contributed significantly to the fact that living in Austria is still a significant leader, because housing prices in the non-profit area are at €6.32 are much lower than in the private rental area. One can only dream of this in the private rental area. In addition, traditionally funded housing construction has effectively prevented a debt and real estate crisis that has occurred in many other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27166	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27188	Mr President. The time at which we discuss the topic of sustainable living is symbolic of the achievements of this government. In fact, for five years you have been on a political spirit drive in the building of homes; a political spirit drive in which you abandon the young families in which the ÖVP explains to us why something is not going, in which the colleague of the SPÖ now explains to me that living is anyway palatable and favourable. We know that very many people in our country spend a third, even sometimes half of their income for living. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ tax increase party, these are the facts! That's how it looks outside in real life! In addition, the party policy is in the cooperatives, in which housing is awarded in the municipal building et cetera. So stop being dirty here, and don't make one, the big mistake before elections – I'm just warning you –: Don't say you're in favour of cheap housing, because you're not! They have now proved for five years that they have not done it, and people are perceiving it. It's the same untruth when you come here now and say that you're doing something for education policy, although you haven't done anything for five years, or if the ÖVP says it's doing a tax reduction, and five years has done nothing for it, but the opposite. You don't believe that anymore. The most important thing you need to do would be a commitment to the construction of housing. That would be the minimum. I think there would be a consensus in this respect. There are appropriate applications. We have tabled an application with more than 20 points, a package of housing rights, the FPÖ has raised this to 14 applications, we have summarized it – and you do not even find it worth discussing here. You have postponed it in the committee, instead of discussing content with us here. They always turn out and thus help no one in this country to find a durable housing system, on the contrary. What is against commitment to purpose instead of speculating with the money, such as in Lower Austria at the ÖVP your head of state Pröll or in Salzburg, where Gabi Burgstaller was still involved in the corresponding speculation scandals that have been shown. - Is that all right? – They cancel out a housing promotion contribution for each employee and thus speculate at the casino. You can't do that, that's to stop! And you also refuse to implement a speculation ban at the same time. That too is nonsense. Your argument is no longer understandable. What we need is a simple, defunct rental right, on the one hand, in non-profit housing for people who really need it, where we don't want mushrooms' conditions, where well-equipped politicians sit in cheap community apartments. We don't want that either. But on the On the other hand, in the private sector, we also want to have a rental right, which makes it possible for apartments to be created again, that Private say: Yes, I am interested and I also have a corresponding return where you can invest accordingly! That must also be possible. Because if that doesn't happen, then nothing will be built either. This is actually a very logical matter, which you can already learn in school. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have a few points to make. For example, if you want to maintain the privileged rents you have to watch as a young family in old buildings, how the neighbor pays a tenth of what a young family with two children pays, then it will stop at all. You also need to talk about it. We need to review the broker fees. In general, you should only pick it up from the landlord and no longer demand it from the tenant. You could delete the rental contract fee. One might also delete the 10 percent VAT. If living is a basic need, as you say, and you know how high the rents are in this country, then we delete the VAT, at least in non-profit housing, then every young family saves itself an entire monthly rent per year. That's a subject. You don't want to discuss this with us either, because you really don't care about the young tenants. Or the non-profit construction associations, which are partly common: There are in every federal country 20, 30, 35 housing cooperatives, divided between red and black, where the salaries of those sitting there shoot only in the height where reserves are formed and we are told that they are all intended – that is all nonsense, that is not true! – and then they can't be controlled. They control themselves through the revision association. You know that, too. Then you will decide with us the control of the Court of Auditors! That's what we could do. Let us continue the depoliticization of housing cooperatives. I know you like to have politicians sitting there, because then you can forgive the apartments by party color, red and black, as it just fits. We don't want that with us. We don't want that! Or at country level, where we have nine-fold requirements for technical equipment and the construction regulations, one could unravel accordingly. This also increases the housing prices. So you see, there's a lot to do in this area. And the only thing that you accomplish is to place populistly before elections, to be for living room, even though you have completely failed for five years. This applies to the left as well as to the right half of the empire. No one's gonna lose you any more. We have presented a proper package of housing rights, which can be discussed in terms of content, but simply wipe it off the table, that will be too little, because no one believes this policy to you outside.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27267	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27288	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Widmann, in a few things I even give you the right. The purpose is already something I would like to see here as an economic representative. But you also know that there is a different regulation and that we also, of course, the federal states must take into account. The wish would be there. But of course it is already true that a nationalization of housing, as it is sometimes remembered here, or a peculiar regulation is not a solution, because otherwise the private area remains outside and the apartments are not rented. For the purpose of facilitation: We have an increase of 3 percent in monthly effort per apartment, 422 €. We are at 5.82 € per square meter of land by 2.3 percent more expensive than last year. Of course, it would be cheaper if it were even cheaper, but I think it can be seen. For example, I would like to point out that, of course, it is quite, very important that we build quality building, that we keep thermal quality high because housing and housing in general have a great impact on whether we are putting the 2020 strategy in place at all. I would also like to point out that the Austrian path was the right one in the Ecostrom Act, which was strongly criticized. We have about 50 € per household. The Germans are here at the triple price, and therefore the discussion in Germany is much bigger. Again and again, it is proposed to save on the thermal quality of the buildings. I think that's the wrong way to go, because the costs are increasing in running operations. It is also repeatedly proposed that parking be left out in rural areas. As a long-term mayor, I think this is the wrong way to go, because this means that the cost of cars – in our areas each family has at least two cars – is up to the taxpayer. That too is the wrong way. All in all, you don't need to keep us from taking living seriously. It's one of our big concerns at all. And we're fighting for it to stay quiet.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27337	Next speaker: Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27358	I now liked the final sentence: We're fighting for living to become manageable. – That’s why the government is so diligent in the Building Committee, because what does the Building Committee have in common with Christmas? – Both take place only once a year. Only: For Christmas there are at least gifts, the Building Committee is only discussing applications of the opposition, and they are still being rejected, because there are no ideas of the government! Although there is a big election topic “Leistbare Wohning”, there are no proposals – I have not heard anything from my colleague Singer or the colleague Becher today – which can be done here in order to make living cheaper. I'm sure we agree, Colleague Becher: If you have to quote a criminal case from the 1990s, it is embarrassing because we have at least indicated the crime. The question is, do you also view your crime cases? I wonder whether this, where cooperatives are as expensive as the so-called rental shark, is really a non-profit housing. We have sometimes really already rental prices, where the rental shark, where the private landlord – as you say; Miethai from the point of view of comrades – is just as expensive as the non-profit cooperative. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is already the question of what is still non-profit when a non-profit cooperative builds freely funded apartments. Is it the aim and purpose of the Act of Community Use to build freely funded dwellings on the market only to build more dwellings? Mr. Singer, the taxation of reserves is not an invention of the FPÖ. This is the law in force. We just want the law in force to be executed. And if you say, well, there are people who already work in cooperatives before, and then move into the National Council or into a country day, you can't punish that – okay, then we'll talk about taking care of it. But what we have specifically addressed here with the request – and you know that as well as I do – are the so-called breakfast directors who are only provided with top positions. And that's what you want to do, that you can also provide for people you need to care for in cooperatives. Furthermore, you want tenants, for example, to pay for annuities for loans already cancelled – that is, to pay for something that has already been paid – and for excessive building management costs by packaged. All of this you want to continue to have. However, you do not want to discuss these requests seriously, but you simply rejected them, but you are for the safest living. But where are your proposals? . The current meeting and the final meeting of the Building Committee have clearly demonstrated that there are no proposals on the subject of sustainable housing on the part of the government parties. [[Abg. Singer keeps a brochure up to date.]] – Then you would have brought it into the Building Committee, colleague Singer. Just to wake up with a brochure is a little bit. We know how to make applications, don't we? Do you know how to make a request and submit it here? Then you would have tabled the proposal here, then we could discuss how far it makes sense to go with us. But I also have in mind the statements made by Mrs Karl's minister, who said in committee, that the government will not be able to make meaningful proposals until 2015. This was said in the Committee by Mrs Karl. So I can only say that we, the opposition, have the ideas – and you only have empty election promises.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27412	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27434	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For us Socialists and Socialists, the economic programme decided by the Federal Government is a very important programme, a very crucial programme, an economic programme, which is particularly important in the housing sector, for various reasons: On the one hand, because of the fact that a large number of additional housing offers are dampening on the prices of housing, it creates additional low-cost housing for people in Austria and, on the other hand, because of the creation of jobs, jobs in a wide range of industries, in regions, in many areas, in many sectors. I can also refer to the energy saving trade fair in my home town of Wels, where very innovative, very modern, very sustainable areas are presented, which are of great international importance. I should now like to refer briefly to the comments made by my predecessor. I would like to join my colleague Mag. Ruth Becher thank you, who is very committed to tenants. It is perfectly right – one only remembers the sale of BUWOG, the biggest sale of real estate in Europe –: Many former BUWOG tenants then found a difficult situation. That's, you have to say, actually the sign of the FPÖ in the area of housing: Sale and sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27476	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27497	Mr President. Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! No place for speculators in non-profit housing! People can't afford living anymore. In some federal states – we have already heard this today – housing funds on devils are speculated out. In some federal states, ladies and gentlemen, the money does not come at all, as in Salzburg, for example. The cost of housing exceeds the socially acceptable level at Weitem. The social policy mission, ladies and gentlemen, is to provide the population with a sustainable housing. And there is an urgent need for policy to act. It can't be that non-profit companies listen to horning reserves, the tenant pays with the high rental prices the token for it – and the cooperatives speculate on the stock exchange! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this situation is unacceptable: Instead of making rents cheaper for the citizen, it is speculated to get a nice basket money! It should also be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that the non-profit associations benefit from some advantages, such as exemption from income taxes, and that they receive hundreds of million euros of funding per year, a great advantage to commercial companies. This inequality should also be considered. Speculators have lost nothing in non-profit housing! Living has to be manageable for the people again! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27538	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27559	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Living is a basic need of man. In the case of an average income, a large part of the monthly income available for living is on it. Pressure increases, prices increase – and this must be countered if you want to maintain the quality of life and the purchasing power of people, on the one hand, by expanding the housing offer, especially the social housing offer, and on the other hand, and this is particularly important by comprehensively reforming the rental law and not only by means of discrepancies. [[Depressive applause by the honourable Member Mag. Widmann and Vock]] People's housing need must not be exploited! However, this is sometimes exploited, especially in the private sector, because private rents have increased by 28 percent over the last five years, while rents in municipal and cooperative apartments have been increased by only 13 percent. Therefore, the SPÖ strives for a rapid and comprehensive general renewal of the rental law, which has now become a rather clumsy flickering carpet. Unfortunately, however, we have not yet found a majority, as our coalition partner shudders. [[Abg. Steibl: Go, come!]] Unfortunately, Mrs Steibl: That's where the coalition partner shudders. [[Abg. Steibl:... the National Council! You don't know each other, Mrs. Colleague!]] However, we are still trying intensively to do so, but unfortunately, a majority in favour of a constitutionally established ban on speculation has failed precisely on that group which has covered us here with a rage of requests. I would therefore like to ask colleagues from the FPÖ to see more honesty and to distance myself from hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27628	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27649	Mr President. Federal Minister! I find it remarkable how different in this debate the focus is on housing, housing and non-profit housing cooperatives, but all of us, as I believe, agree that living is a social human right and therefore we also have the appropriate framework conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, having a share in social life without your own apartment, without your own living space is not imaginable. No longer to be able to live means always the end of social relationship and a break in the development of personal identity. Therefore, adequate housing is an important economic and social challenge – and we must meet this challenge. Therefore, I am glad that the Federal Government has set up appropriate initiatives towards more housing, with a business programme that also relates to housing. Short to agenda item 37: The Freedom Party calls for the introduction of a ban on speculation for non-profit building associations. – In addition, ladies and gentlemen, We reject from the SPÖ financial speculations with public funds, as well as in non-profit housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27683	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27704	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's not a natural law, but a law of the economy: If the offer of housing decreases and demand increases, then the rents automatically rise. That's the private market. And we know very well, it is best to explain this in the area of housing – that has already been tailor-made by our group – in the area of BUWOG. There privatization has clearly shown what it means to privatize public goods and what that means for the people who live there, that is, rapidly rising costs. It was certainly a mistake or too little thought that no more detailed guidelines were created in the process of changing housing. I do not dispute that there are good and positive examples in many federal states, such as energy construction and so on, where non-profit housing has a role to play in the private housing sector. I know such examples from Upper Austria, but there are also them in Vorarlberg. But it was an even greater mistake to have removed the dedication of purpose. How does housing support finance itself? – From the tax funds we collect through social security, from the repayments of the borrowers and from the own resources, partly also from the public and partly from the tenants themselves. Extreme examples – for example in Lower Austria – of what you can do with housing promotion funds offer some federal states, even those from Carinthia could already be mentioned – I am therefore surprised that FPÖ and BZÖ have just come up with such proposals – where housing promotion funds have been damaged. Yes, they have been ruined; they have been paid out by half the money and then spent the money for other purposes. And now the money is missing! The money is also missing for activities where we expect them to attack the federal states. Therefore, it is now urgently necessary and important that we set the decisive course here. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: (to ÖVP point out) You have to talk about that!]] I already admit: Property for all those who can afford it, you can go along with it; also rental models for those who are at the threshold, so to speak, but one must be undisputed: We need fair and manageable rents for all those who need it. Therefore, we need to build more cost-effective rental apartments. And my appeal to the blues, to the liberals who have obviously attached this to the flags: do not tear down non-profit housing companies, but promote them. That's where we're reforming. The better is the enemy of the good, therefore: We also need to set the appropriate course. Basic reserves must be made available accordingly; Own resources have to be used – and here I am with you: The means of housing development are urgently devoted to the purpose. With appropriate measures – I am convinced – we will also have success again in terms of the number of low-cost rental apartments.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27749	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27785	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that on one point, namely that the rents are too high in many areas, we agree. The question is, why is that so? One reason is certainly that there are too few apartments, and that is why we need to take measures to ensure that more apartments are built in the future, especially for young people, especially for young families – this is a very important point – and then the apartments will become more manageable again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us look closely at the request of the Liberals on the issue of the law on non-profit-making of housing, especially the point where this request requires that, if the reserves represent an amount of more than 10 percent of the balance sheet amount, this amount will eventually become taxable in the future! – That would mean increasing the situation in non-profit housing. But, in reality, this is an attack on the community and à la longue would mean a destruction of this area. [[Abg. Vock: No applicable law!]] – This is not our view of good policy; we Social Democrats are pursuing a different policy. In our opinion, it is important that non-profit housing cooperatives have the opportunity to form reserves, even in the future. What happens to these setbacks? – Yes, I am of course also in favour of not speculating with it; no question at all. – The reserves provide the opportunity to acquire land and to build new apartments. That's our goal. Therefore: These reserves are required. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria's employees pay 0.5 per cent of their wage or salary contributions. This accounts for around €900 million a year. We Social Democrats will work to ensure that this is used to build new apartments. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27830	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 30: Proposal from the Building Committee to take note of its report 2478 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 31: Request by the Building Committee to take note of its report 2479 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 32: Proposal from the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 2480 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 33: Proposal from the Building Committee to take note of its report 2481 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 34: Request by the Building Committee to take note of its report 2482 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 35: Request by the Building Committee to take note of its report 2483 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 36: Proposal from the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 2484 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 37: Proposal from the Building Committee to take note of its report 2485 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[00:13:22]] 38. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (2375, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Development Aid Act and the General Social Security Act (2450 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27940	We're coming to 38. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Glaser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e27977	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pendl said: Good morning! - Yeah, that's right. At this item on the agenda, after several years of discussion, we are dealing with two legislative areas. On the one hand, the Development Aid Act is amended – various social and family provisions are adapted – and on the other hand, we amend the General Social Insurance Act by establishing a minimum basis for development aid for pension insurance. This has therefore become necessary because, until now, pension rights have been provided for the development workers on a relatively low basis, which had no effect until the best 15 years have been used for the basis of assessment. However, as the basis of assessment is now being established for many years now, it is absolutely necessary to establish a minimum basis of contribution here in order to ensure that the development aid is safeguarded. I think we owe this to these people to secure people who are highly committed in countries where otherwise we hardly have a representation, where they are, so to speak, Austrian ambassadors. However, we have not only talked about development aid and development aid in the relevant subcommittee, but also about many other materials: whether it be land harvesting, food and energy sovereignty or also food speculation. I should now like to make the following request for food speculation in this area: [[Quoted print version removed]] The request, I believe, has been accepted by everyone, and I have therefore only read the text of the decision. I would ask you, in the interests of protecting the weakest on our earth, to accept this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28043	This motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is being discussed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28098	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28119	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The novel of the Development Aid Act has accompanied us in the discussion for many, many years – I don't want to say, persecuted. I think it is very nice that today all the parties will agree to this novel. It is about ensuring that those people who give up a lot and make an important contribution to global development in old age – and not with a pension that is in no way in balance with their efforts during their professional life. This is very important to me. I would also like to stress that it seems very, very necessary to me to negotiate and decide on this motion for a resolution on the prohibition of speculation with food, because I know, of course, that one of the main motives, one of the main fields of work of development workers and development workers, is the fight against hunger in the world. Speculation with food heats the prices, makes prices volatile, and causes the poorest of the poor to lose their ability to afford basic foods. I think that even there will probably be everyone or most. I think this is an important step towards a coherent development policy. At this point, I would like to thank colleagues Franz Glaser for the good and long-term cooperation in the field of development cooperation in general – and for this important, close link in the field of social security for development workers in particular. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28161	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please. [[Abg. May. Schwentner is already on his way towards the Rederpult.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: It is unbreakable, but yes,...!]] Do you refuse your speech, Mr. Hübner? - Yes, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The next speaker is therefore Mrs Magistrate. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28199	That would be only 2 minutes; you could have preferred them, Mr President. Excuse me! The key word was the long cooperation – and that is the only question in this context: why it was such a difficult birth to impose this law on the feet. I have already heard the negotiations in which we were not directly involved. This is the It's a shame, I can only say, because: The earlier, the better for all those who work in development work, but this concerns many. As has already been said: This is a very, very valuable work, and it is important that the people in the various areas are well protected. It is not only about pension benefits, it is also about many other benefits which have now been clarified or re-adjusted by this law. This concerns, for example, the incapacity to work, travel insurance, travel expenses. Furthermore, it is about family members, about family benefits. In this respect, it is very welcome that this law – after a serious birth – comes into force. However, the difference between the basis of the assessment and the fictitious basis of contribution is the fact that NGOs – in this case above all, it is a large organisation, Horizon3000 – that has to send developmentists almost to the countries to take over this difference. I would have liked this to be regulated differently, for example, by the state, in an analogous way to the Civil Service Act. But, as has been said, our agreement should not fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28239	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28263	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary – who is not in the hall right now! Of course, any trade in derivatives on food, on food, on cereals, on agricultural products must be stopped immediately. This stimulates poverty, not only in third countries, but also in the following areas: We in Austria produce only more than 80 percent of cereals – and hedge funds, investment funds and large banks, including Austrian banks, speculate with food. That's the totally wrong way. The Austrian Federal Government is therefore required that this speculation be stopped here, but also in Europe immediately, that we all work for it, because otherwise there will be a situation that no one can have under control. This is a step that must be implemented rigorously. It is also important to further discuss whether, as it were, we want grain in the tank, whether we really want it in Austria today – for example, I only mention AGRANA in Pischelsdorf – that we build works in which food is made a fuel. That's the wrong way! This should be banned immediately, and I also say: Mr State Secretary, implement this in Europe too! From the National Council, you now have the order to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28296	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28317	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This amendment of the Development Assistance Act and the General Social Security Act aims at improving the labour and social situation of professionals in development cooperation. In concrete terms, the amendments concern a fixed entitlement to incapacity benefits, travel insurance, travel costs, reintegration, state family benefits and an adjustment of pension schemes. This also takes into account the fact that co-traveling partners are allowed to take up their own work. The revision of these provisions also ensures the legal equality of EU/EEA citizens and Swiss nationals. We will vote for this novel by the Stronach team. On the motion for a resolution: Although we look at it a little critically, it is relatively difficult to determine whether cereals or food are being bought for speculation and how you can prove it – that will be relatively difficult. But the good will is now in agreement with this request, although it will not be possible to do so before. We will also accept this request and trust the government that it will find a way to really explain it in such a way that food speculations are exposed and prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28358	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28381	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that this government template is so broad in its support. I believe that this will bring about a decisive change in their social situation for a group of people who are willing to leave a safe country such as Austria, to go in far-off countries where, for example, there is war or where they are faced with poverty and disease. That means that this is not easy or convenient work. These people are bringing many victims – and for that, as I mean, our respect, our thanks and our great recognition to all the development workers and development workers. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am therefore pleased that we can now improve the situation of these people. On this occasion I would also like to thank two colleagues, a colleague and a colleague, who were crucial in the preparation of this law: on the one hand, Mr Bayr, from my group, who has not been tired, repeatedly and again, and I should also like to thank my colleague, Mr Glaser, who was a very important co-founder for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28419	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28440	In every short offer, ladies and gentlemen: This is a joint resolution to improve the social situation of development workers, and I would just like to take a brief look at Mr Glaser's request, Mr Bayer and Mr Huber. This relatively technical formulation, which reads as follows: “Reducing food speculation” is a not quite simple bread, but a difficult thing. We have discussed intensively – on the basis of my request – in the Subcommittee and also in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there has not yet been a final agreement, because the difficulty of this limitation already plays a major role. One aspect is certainly the increased taxation, the taxation of speculation approaches in food trade, also at international level. I believe that the issue of financial transaction tax is also important in this context, because we must not forget that many funds are commodity funds and contain a significant proportion of agricultural commodities in these raw materials funds. This context, Mr Glaser, was the prerequisite for me to say that without taxation of this kind of trade it will not be possible to rely more on regionality of supply and to strengthen the food sovereignty of the countries. Politically, it will be necessary to enforce this at different levels. I think it is a small step, but a great task for the next Federal Government to take action in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28482	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28546	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber is of course right in some things, but in one wrong: The speculation with food and the volatility of prices is not related to the over-the-counter trade and to the commodity and date exchanges, but they are as old as the food trade at all. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – But yes, if you see what jumps there were in the 19th century. In the 19th century at the wheat price, in the potato price and so on – and which famines were triggered by speculation and hortung! Or look at the 13th. Century – the beginning of the agricultural markets in Upper Italy – what was going on! You try to do something, and you have an opportunity to introduce a tax. We're for it. We agree with your request because I say that trade is certainly harmful; no question. But believing that you help anyone when you introduce new taxes is not right, unfortunately, is an ammary. In addition: In the Third World, there is not so much the problem of market volatility, but the problem of supplying these markets with cheap, subsidized or even free food. In this context, it is also worth mentioning the ruin of agriculture there through the competition of food from all over the Western world, where foods – partly well thought well – are sent to, but then there is a price level where the local producers leave. This issue should be addressed once. I know that this issue is not very pleasant, it is difficult because the aid is partly promoting the ruin of agriculture there, but it is still important to consider difficult and relevant issues – and not only do you believe that a new tax will have to be introduced again. On the second topic: We will also agree to the improvement of the development aid. This is fair, although it must be said that development aid is certainly not a success story. But the development aid itself can't do anything for this ineffective and unsuccessful story. After all, they are only implementing the rules which they have the policy that we give them to the development aid organisations – and they cannot do anything for that. To talk about what goes wrong and what is going on in refusing insight into the loop leads to too far for today and in the light of the time, I think; therefore I conclude with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28595	There are no further words available to this effect. I therefore conclude the debate. I would ask you to take the seats, because we are now coming to the votes. We first come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 2375 of the supplements. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of this draft to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. If you also agree to the draft at third reading, I ask you for your sign. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bayer, Mr Glaser, Mr Pirklhuber, Mr Huber, Mr Huber, Mr Andriessen, on the control of food speculation and the increased regulation of trade in derivatives in agricultural raw materials. If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 323.) [[00:31:44]] 39. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (2363, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the European Agency for the Operating Management of Large IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice on the seat of the Agency's backup system (2451 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28661	I'll call 39. Agenda item. The debate opens up to Mr. Dr. Hübner. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28686	Mr President. We will not agree, that is not quite unexpected after the conversations we have already used in committee. We do not reject this because we do not believe that the EU should have any backup server in the Pongau – it should have it, and the agency may have some deeper meaning; I have not studied it exactly now. However, there are again points in this agreement that we consider to be a real shame. In this area, I can look forward to it, I can look to the left again and again, of tax loopholes, islands, paradises, exceptions, privileges and so on, but it is difficult to forget all this about EU officials or EU employees. This agreement does not apply to international agreements, international frameworks and international practices, because it is only about concluding an agreement within the EU, i.e. exclusively between Member States in the EU. The Vienna agreement, which is always called here, does not matter at all. What's in there? Thankfully, the Secretary of State has sent me a very nice and detailed explanation of why this is all inside. It is heard that this is so important for the Vienna site and so on. I have to repeat the highlights, which we have already mentioned in the Committee: For example, people who provide any technical services in the Pongau or anywhere for this agency, provided that they are so-called status workers, have the right to acquire and introduce a private car every four years free of charge. So they don't pay no nova in the EU and no VAT. That's interesting. The Agency's staff are, I would say, self-evidently exempt from all compulsory contributions to the social security institutions. Persons working in these agencies shall be completely exempt from the tax payment for their salaries, salaries, salaries and allowances paid by the Agency during the service period. That all the legal acts of this agency are, of course, exempt from all court fees and other charges, and I would just like to mention similar small things on the verge. What I wonder is why, after all the talk about loopholes and privileges, the Austrian Federal Government does not even somehow have the courage to point out and say: Dear friends, this is actually not quite appropriate! Let's just put them in the sense of the hole stopper! That's what it says: Well, it's so difficult for international employees. They have to move from one country to another, and they have to be allowed to buy at least tax-free cars for private use, otherwise they might have to take back laborious refund formalities when they leave. This is interesting, because there are no privileges for employees of multinationals who are put in the two- and three-year rhythms around the world, which can be seen. But there is little work in the EU, and such privileges need to be introduced. This is inconceivable, they must be equated with employees of international organisations. There you have to enter the Vienna agreement through the back door. I think that's grossly inconvenient. I think it's a shame that we're playing at this privilege stadium. I think it's inexcusable that you don't say anything. All the excuses and explanations that come are a joke. What does the Vienna location mean for the international organizations? – It is not the case that Austria abolishes it. But this cannot be agreed across the EU. We do not lose the back-up office if these tax privileges are no longer introduced across the EU. This has no effect on the location at all. We do not need re-route profitability calculations at all, as they are employed, because it is neutral when this is agreed. We will therefore, of course, not agree to the agreement in this form because of the privileges granted. It would be nice if some Members did not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28734	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28755	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. The previous speaker is already right, the immunity and the privileges granted to the employees of the EU Agency in this context are certainly part of the agreement. The first thing, however, is, of course, about the agreement with an EU agency that builds the seat of the backup system in St. Johann im Pongau. Generally speaking, a backup system and backup of files or data are not a bad idea. We all know that from the private sector. With the site in St. Johann im Pongau more than 30 years ago, Austria established a high-security data store for the Republic of Austria, for the ministries and the countries, in order to enable the continuation of important state tasks in exceptional situations. The same need, of course, also applies to the backup system of the central system in Strasbourg. These are sensitive and important data, such as backup copies of the Schengen Information System, the Visa Information System and the Eurodac System, which are also useful tools and information providers for national authorities, for the international cohesion of the authorities and for the This is the first time we have been working together. To a large extent, security in the case of a case that is not likely to occur is a necessary step. It is also gratifying that this will take place in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28792	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28813	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced period in all the requested short: As EU agencies are directly subject to EU law, the present Headquarters Agreement contains only the additional provisions on this Headquarters office. This agreement is similar, for example, to the EU Fundamental Rights Agency’s Office-based agreement, which is also based in Vienna. We shall vote in favour of this agreement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28837	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28880	Ladies and gentlemen, a brief service announcement to the parliamentary club of the Freeman: Mr Hübner spoke against the request. This is only for the information that you probably vote in this way and not in the same way as at the last request. Mr. State Secretary, now you smile again. We have thus awakened you a little; that was certainly in the sense of the speaker. In one case, of course, Mr Hübner is right: It is anachronistic in a European Union that sees itself as a political Union that there are mutual immunities and privileges in such agencies and organisations. These have a right when it comes to real international organizations, where the location may be somewhere in Africa or Asia, and you want to maintain the same conditions for all participants and employees there. This is also about security issues, which of course is also about adequate living conditions. But in the European Union it is always assumed that everyone is the same, and then everyone can be treated the same way. Just as it is reasonable for employees to switch from one EU country to another, so that they naturally accept the conditions of the respective EU country, this is also reasonable for officials and servants of these organisations. Of course, the EU must be regulated throughout the EU. There was, I think, a small misunderstanding in committee, Mr State Secretary: This was also your task in the Committee on Missions, or the appointment of us, to you, that you are committed to doing so in the European Union – not that we no longer receive institutions, but that these privileges and immunities are abolished across the EU. However, we will vote in favour of this request, because it is now here, and it is difficult to do so. In the future, however, it would be good to negotiate this differently.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28931	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28953	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We too will agree to this request, even if we see the criticisms that we heard earlier – Mr Scheibner and Mr Hübner have done so – very well so. Privileges in the EU are a delicate issue – we know that always happens – but this is a reasonable matter. I believe it is also good that Austria can host such institutions that Austria is involved in the EU. We are very much in favour of the European Union peace project, which is why we are in favour of it and will be happy to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e28989	There are no further words available to this effect. The debate is thus closed. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 2363 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. I would like to ask those Members who agree to do so. – This is accepted by a majority. [[00:42:37]] 40. Point Second reading: Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment No 2304/A by Dr Josef Cap, Karlheinz Kopf, Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, Herbert Scheibner, Members of the Federal Law amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Rules of Procedure 1975) (2494, e.g.) 41. Point Second reading: Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment No 2305/A by Dr Josef Cap, Karlheinz Kopf, Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Christoph Hagen, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975) and on the Question No 1623/A by Mr Mag. Ewald Stadler, colleagues in a federal law amending the Rules of Procedure Act 1975 (2495, p.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e29071	We come to points 40 and 41 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The debate opens up to Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e29096	Mr President. We do not need to say much about the request that parliamentary questions be submitted or can be submitted in the summer as of next week. High time, and happy that it has still succeeded in bringing it to the end in this period! The second amendment of the Rules of Procedure refers to the establishment of parliamentary clubs, which should now only be possible at the beginning of the period. We did not carry that in the form, because it is not really consistent on the one hand. If one considers that there should be a creation of parliamentary clubs only at the beginning, then one would probably have to say consistently that a transition to other clubs during the period is no longer possible. You leave that open. That is, one club in the period I can no longer start, but changing from one club to another is still going on. That's not really consistent. Either they say it's an election movement, and you can't change it, or you can solve it in total. However, the point is that there are also reasons when there are serious political divisions that one can make a new club within a period of time. For example, in contrast to others, I believe that the recognition of the establishment of the Liberal Forum was justified at the time: with a clear political separation, with an apparently independent party. – You can already judge that. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who evaluates this?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who?]] The difference now was that if Members have changed to the Stronach team and have de facto said up to the day of division, they certainly do not go there, there are no political reasons that certainly is not a political re-foundation in the form. That makes a difference. So: In principle, it should be possible to establish itself in clubs. If there is a political reason to make it different, it should also be possible during the period. What is definitely not supposed to be possible is that there are cash flows here, that there may be financial attractions to switch clubs! That is something that this provision still lacks. We would have wanted more to happen. This has not succeeded, so we will not support this reform of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e29145	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e29167	Mr President. High house! We are giving ourselves new rules of play with this amendment of the Rules of Procedure. I am very much with Mr Brosz that it is high time to allow parliamentary questions also during the sitting-free time. I believe that this is a solution that not only meets the opposition but, in principle, justifys the new political work in a self-confident parliamentaryism. As far as the establishment of political groups and clubs is concerned, of course, one can be of different opinion, because it always depends on the current political situation, whether it was at the time when the Liberal Forum was set up, or now, a few months ago, the story with the transition from the BZÖ or wild Members to the Stronach team. The fact is that together we want to give ourselves new rules of play. I think it's a reasonable decision to say: The constituency and the Democratic legitimacy is best reflected by making club start-ups at the beginning of a period. Of course, there are also other variants that probably do not protect us from having to adapt our internal rules of play, the Rules of Procedure, sometime together, with a broad majority of parliamentarians. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] In this sense, I am pleased that this request is given broad approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e29221	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e29242	Mr President. We had the opportunity to debate this issue at a first reading. Neither content nor arguments have changed. I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e29270	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e29291	Yeah, that's really not to peak. – But it is true that we discussed it at first reading. Both amendments are useful, so we will also agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e29318	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e29340	I would like to say a few more about this, but I see that Mrs Bayr is already preparing to untangle. That's why I'm just saying: We agree, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e29370	No one is reported in the word anymore. I'll close the debate. We come to the votes. Firstly, we shall vote on Agenda item 40: Draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, including title and receipt in 2494 d.b. The present draft may be submitted in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be adopted by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast only on the presence of at least half of the members. First of all, I note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I would ask those Members who give their approval to this draft to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. In accordance with Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of this draft law may take place at the earliest 24 hours after the conclusion of the second reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 41: Draft federal law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, together with the title and receipt in 2495 of the Supplements. Since this draft can only be decided in the presence of at least half of the members, I note it. I now ask those Members who give their approval to this draft to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously decided – the required two-thirds majority is given by it. Here too: In accordance with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of this draft may take place at the earliest 24 hours after the end of the second reading. The agenda is exhausted. [[00:50:02]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-07-03-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00213_d7e29440	I am still announcing the introduction of Amendment No 2371/A(E) at today's meeting. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – We have one more meeting to attend, please! Question 15326/J to 15417/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 0.50 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
