ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e2578	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'm opening the 202. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of the 199. Meeting of 25 and 26. ==References====External links== Meeting of 26. In April 2013, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported Binder-Maier, Katzian, Mag. Lohfeyer, Mag. Gerstl, Dr. Huainigg, Mag. Lettenbichler, Steindl, Dr. Fichtenbauer, Ing. Hofer, Kunasek, Dr. Grünewald, Mag. Jarmer, Mag. Musiol, Mag. Honey and Windbüchler Soushill. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e2609	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for the Interior of Power. Johanna Mikl- Leitner is represented by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner. [[08:35:08]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e2645	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e2862	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure request that the written question made at the beginning of the sitting be dealt with urgently by Mr Strache, fellow Members, to the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management concerning the client policy of the Federal Minister of Finance, Berlakovich, in favour of chemical industry and large farmers. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e2881	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform the House that Mr Bucher has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the request 657/A concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act be limited to 11. ==References== The motion in question shall be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure following the urgent procedure. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. I would also like to say that Mr Neubauer has requested that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry report on Amendment No 1133/A(E) concerning the prohibition of neonicotinoid-fermented maize seed be limited to 22. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 11.35 a.m. The meeting will be transferred live to ORF 2 from 11.35 to 13.00 and to ORF III. I am now interrupting the sitting until 11.35 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e2941	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[The Green MEPs wear bright yellow t-shirts, on which the picture of a bee in black is printed and the text ‘UNE GIENE GEHN WI MAJA’ is printed.]] [[The representatives of the Stronach team hold a large yellow plush bee in their hands.]] [[11:34:30]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management on the client policy of Federal Minister Berlakovich in favour of chemical industry and large farmers (14713/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e2989	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 14713/J. As it has now reached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e3131	I declare Mr. Klubobmann Strache as the first questioner to justify the question, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e3152	Madam President. Mr Berlakovich! [[The speaker places a 5-liter glass filled with honey in front of the speaker’s desk with the label “Blood honey from Austria”, which is decorated with numerous black and yellow plush bees; the speaker also wears it on his revers.]] Today's urgent request or special meeting is the occasion for the current developments around, I say, your lobbyism, around the interests of chemical groups in connection with various pesticides that are responsible for the death of bee. But, of course, the new EU seed regulation should not be ignored, as I say quite consciously. All of this has led to the fact that, fortunately, all the opposition parties will support today's special meeting and will also support all the mistrust against you, because it is necessary to also give you, Mr. Pesticide Minister Berlakovich, a clear rejection of your political actions. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and by Dr Pirklhuber and Dr. Zinggl]] I brought you something here, five kilograms of best flower honey from Austria, which I will also hand over to you, because I say one thing: Hopefully there will still be this Austrian flower honey in the future, if you are not ministers for a long time! That's exactly what we want to make sure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Albert Einstein once said: When the bees die, man has a maximum of four years to live and survive. – If there are no bees, then there is no flower pollination, there are no plants, there are no animals, there is no human beings in the end. And that's where you have a damn important and great responsibility as an environmental minister, but unfortunately you have nothing to do with the environment of God. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] In fact, you have to have the old children's song, namely: "Sume, sum, sum! Bees are summing up!’, surrounded by a view of your policies over the past few weeks. That's what it says: "Oh, we're not hurting you! Fly only out in forest and heath!” Now you'd have to say, "Sume, sum, sum! The Minister of Life kills you!" – With your policy, that is exactly the case. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you have tried to do here is a huge damage to Austria and to the bees, but ultimately to the people. [[Call the ÖVP: Kindergarten!]] Last week, you tried to slip through some sort of emergency exit, with a pseudo-conferencing that you tried to scratch the curve again to pull your head out of the loop. But, Minister, this is not credible, and it is not honest what you have tried to do here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It has been an alibi action to convene an alibi bee summit after you have done exactly the opposite in this way with your voting behaviour in the European Union. I say: The damage has long been done. The Austrian Environment Minister has acted as a long-term implementation tool for global industrial and chemical group interests. That's going to be obvious. And it is precisely there that the ÖVP must also be called by name as regards its responsibility, because, of course, it is not only the Minister for the Environment, but that is the basic structure of the ÖVP, for the interests of the global corporations and the chemical industry, of which it is duly categorised for advertising, ultimately to make policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let’s take a look at the ÖVP-near “Farmers Newspaper”: An advertisement from the chemical companies to the other, where the money goes into the ÖVP-near areas! This goes down to the social partners of the agricultural chamber newspaper. Let us look at how in the case of the social partners of the agricultural chamber newspapers, the chemical companies with one representative after another obviously buy these ÖVP politicians! I say there must be the corruption of the state prosecutor's office because of the lucidity that exists here in this immense way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That's where you demasked yourself, my rulings from the ÖVP. We must therefore call you the Minister of Pesticides today, Minister Berlakovich, because you have nothing more to do with the environment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It was only on the weekend that the news magazine “profile” revealed that a study of the AGES, the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety, has been financed by pesticides producers for bee dying! A study was obtained from those chemical companies, which is supposed to justify their poisons, and the Minister then referred to them. – So it is more obvious and apparently not possible at all! I say that this is not to be surpassed at all! To have chemical companies pay for a study of the alleged death of bee as a result of the chemical use on our fields, this shows once again the Cuzpe of the poison lobbyists in our country. And you're a poison lobbyist, you've behaved like a poison lobbyist, Minister Berlakovich! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly where you don't come out – even if you always get into word-rich conditions in the post-mortem. Yes, you are in conflicts of interest, in permanent conflicts of interest. Throughout the agricultural sector, thanks to Agro-Gentechnik, thanks to intensive agriculture, you are in conflict of interest! And I say that the Austrian population should rightly be able to expect an Austrian Environment Minister to do everything he could to counter international misdevelopments and corporate interests, and not to cover up – what does “hidden” mean? – to provide open protection aid for interests of global corporations and chemical companies as you have lived. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm just glad that despite your Nos at EU level No, there is no significance there and it has finally become clear and clear that a ban will not be to shake and nothing to change, despite your faulty vote and your voting behaviour. But for nothing, your contradictory performance was certainly not, because the Austrians have thus also been very clearly revealed your entire way of thinking and action, Minister Berlakovich – and thus also those of your party, who, although like to be a truer of an intact peasantry and supposedly so committed to the peasantry, do not in the end satisfy this claim if you light it up. Then: Where have the relevant EIA ministers been over all the years when around 500 000 tonnes of Gensoja were imported annually into Austria, which is supposed to be free of genetic engineering? Where have the ÖVP farmers been to counter exactly such developments? And where were the responsible ÖVP members and farmers' representatives when they brought and led our farmers, through too low producer prices and the successive opening of the world market, very targeted and consciously politically in distress and in dependence on subsidies? Where were they? Where are your critical statements of words when it comes to what is being grown and what is finally available in Raiffeisen warehouses, what will be preserved in renewable varieties or just sacrificed to group desires, because it is precisely by the nature of the seed that you reduce the selection of varieties and try to make the farmers own and carry out food control at the expense of the population? Where were you? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where were you when you, as a leader of responsibility with your coalition partner, eventually took care to create dependencies here, and finally made possible dependence on pesticides and therefore highly toxic agro sprays? And to this one who deserves? Who deserves all these mechanisms? – Of course, exactly those groups that drive our farmers there into a property. While you all contribute to the fact that free and independent farmers do not exist today in the country, you support precisely those groups that today, of course, can also peer through seed monopolies in their corporate interest and expect European support in many areas. There you are on board for these Group interests, when it comes to Monsanto and others – but not for the peasantry, not for food independence, for self-nutrition and, above all, for the freedom of genetic engineering in our country for which we stand. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This must be enforced and implemented, and it must ultimately also protect people from the above developments. And by the way: The vast number of sprays and fertilizers is of course produced on a petroleum basis today. To make agriculture dependent on a raw material which is becoming increasingly expensive on the one hand and, on the other, as all experts say, will inevitably lead to scarcity on the other, is in itself contradictory and the wrong way. All this is in your support, Minister Berlakovich! There you are as Minister in office, in dignity ultimately the one who has the responsibility to bear. And I ask you to finally put all the facts on the table immediately. That's exactly what the Austrian population expects. She does not just expect it to have a right to put on the table all the facts that have to do with our free peasantry and with our agriculture, because it is about ensuring our future self-sufficiency and our food security and not being threatened. I wonder what you want: Do you want industrially managed monocultures in which everything is sprayed to death, what screams and fleeces, and what is still present in life forms today? A mass animal husbandry that you drive forward, long-term animal transport and mass animal suffering? – This is obvious Your way. But that's not our way, Minister. We want to be able to live freely and independently, and not to be pushed into dependences and promotion systems, subsidies systems, which are not ultimately put in the direction of farmers' deaths. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Tens of thousands of farmers have had to lock up. There is your party color in the truest sense of the word for black and for the death of the peasantry in the country. You have to say that openly. Finally, you are also responsible for the development we have today. I therefore say that it is important to ensure that these areas are without animal suffering, without energy and resource destruction, without the scandal of equine meat, without questionable non-labelling, because no one will see where the ingredients come from in your labelling policy, which is also responsible for you. All of these are fundamental decisions, Mr Minister, who, last but not least, have to be taken by you. And not on behalf of the agro-industrial industry, but exclusively on behalf of the Austrians, you should finally put in place concrete actions in your responsibility, which we have missed for years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The choice is as follows: Food dependence, food group dictatorship of seeds and chemicals, or freedom of choice and healthy food in small, rural, rural structures for consumers. Why don't you ask the consumer what he wants to do about this? Listen to the consumer! He wishes for the second way you do not support and drive forward. I therefore strongly urge you to finally position yourself clearly and clearly, you as the Minister for the Environment and on behalf of your party, who is now trying to present themselves again in many, many areas in the pre-election campaign, while one has not lived a corresponding policy in recent years and has lived the very opposite. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For example, you are always happy to present yourself as a family party – yes, where are the family-political discharges? Where, then, are the inflation adjustments for family allowances, for child benefit? - Nothing you've done! But now before the election, play the big family party! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or: Before the election as a farmer's representative – and in fact for five years in which you have held responsibility, do exactly the opposite! I also ask you to publish immediately all the information about the use of the poisons, the pesticides at last. That's the right of the Austrians, that's your obligation, and you can't hide and cover it under the term "official secrecy", as you've planned and how you've thought it. Yes, it is necessary, if you are not willing to finally put all the cards on the table here, to finally also bring an ad against you for abuse of office. This will not be saved if you deal with this question so irresponsibly. The legal experts say that even a prison sentence threatens you if you continue to disclose things to citizens under the concept of official secrecy as it would be your obligation, namely, through full disclosure of the development. In the first place, we are not concerned with meeting you personally, Mr Minister, alone or as a sole responsible person. No, you stand for a completely missing and sick system – that is the basic problem that needs to be made visible – where it is a serious threat ultimately to our future, our freedom, our sovereignty, where you are not willing to stand up for these important values of our society in the interests of our citizens. Of course, this system of mussels and price agreements, oligopoles, poison mixers, the interests behind it must be carried very, very loud to the light of light, so that there is an insurmountable public uproar, so that you can't continue to drive such mechanisms hidden in the dark. This has to end once and for all. That is why the opposition today has also been closed and collected: to condemn you and your irresponsible policy not only, but also to overcome it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, you should have invested the millions you have invested up to now from public funds, from the public tax pot, in educational campaigns, which in globalized food production is all dangerously wrong and into what dangerous development of international control it slips and smells to heaven, instead of using subsidies and public funds for plumpous self-indulgence rates! It is extremely worrying that a minister is buying to act abusively, as a constitutional expert has just found, just to hide data. [[Abg. Head: A “constitutional expert”!]] I say quite consciously: The suspicion of bribery is in the room – and of course this can only be verified by the prosecutor's office, but the suspicion of bribery is quite concrete in the room when one looks at these advertising developments of the ÖVP-near "farmer's newspaper" and the Chamber of Agriculture. [[Abg. May. Kogler: ( towards ÖVP) ad party!]] There you can see how obviously hundreds of thousands of euros are invested in ÖVP-near areas, by chemical companies, BASF and others. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Repay!]] One chemical group after another is broken down here, which is responsible for these pesticides and celebrates mega-businesses. You can see how this is done in your field of public relations and how you can pay well for it from chemical companies, so that you can probably invest this money again in election campaigns and in other areas. For years ÖVP has been shown to be the problem of species hazard associated with the use of pesticides, as our agricultural spokesman Harald Jannach has always done in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] In the meantime, one thing is certain in the negative sense, namely that the Austrian bee peoples have been massively decimated. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There are also losses reports in the public debate that of 360 000 bee peoples today, only 120 000 are found. The same can be said for other animal species, whether frogs, birds, and so on. The fact that the European Union imposes on the flags the preservation of biodiversity is of no use to the millions of poisoned animals in our country. Mr Minister, this is purest Brussels cynicism on the one hand, but also cynicism on your part, if you make people believe that everything is done to protect these animals, humans and the beings, but in fact an artificial survival struggle, which will ultimately also be and can be our survival struggle. For what remains of us on the counters, if with the bee also the pollination activity, the field fruits, the feed of the past belong to us and man in the truest sense of the word, as Einstein has said, no longer finds a basis of life in the end? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hornek and Dr Bartenstein.]] And it is precisely this: not to endanger this natural chain with poisons, pesticides and your corporate policy from purely economic considerations and interests. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, Minister Berlakovich, have tried here with an immense aggression to say no to all these scenarios, even to promote an acceleration – and this can only be referred to as an act of indifference and also of irresponsibility, where in reality there must be your withdrawal as a minister. Their retreat would be a command of propriety and character. If, according to your actions, you have a propensity and character, Mr Minister, you should take the consequences of yourself! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] You're not the author of the abuses, but you've made yourself a contributor. They are contributors to these abuses of an anti-life system, which is only about profits and where it doesn't matter who and what everything remains on the track. In addition, it is high time that the Ministry Act was finally amended. The fact that the environment and agriculture are a sector today is a contradiction in itself, since there are completely different interests where agriculture's interests are constantly speaking against the environment. You have to split these resorts differently at last! Environment is part of health, and there is finally a need to ensure new developments in the division of departments – just as in the family and the economy, where there are often precisely these conflicts of interest and complete misorientations are the case. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Wheeler.]] The fact that parts of the ÖVP live pure greed of money is all too evident in the current example: those companies that fill their funds with pesticides entertain a army of lobbyists and also fill the budgets of the ÖVP-near “Farm News” and areas. If you see this development, you should not go to the agenda! BASF chief Kurt Bock said: “In particular, our business with plant protection products was once again extremely successful.” – Thank you, Minister! And if you hit the ÖVP-near “Farmers News” and visit the homepage, you can teach a better person there and see how lobbyism policy really looks, from your side, which bears the responsibility. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I say: It's time to go, take responsibility and get out of your office! The Austrian population is really tired of having to experience such abuses as under red and black.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e3431	To answer the question, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e3452	Madam President. Estimated government colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Bee dying is a global topic and has various causes. [[Call the BZÖ: For example!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] Especially known in our widths are the Varroamilbes and malnutrition, but other threats are also responsible for it. Research has also been carried out in Austria. In October 2008, a federal and federal cooperation was initiated and the so-called MELISSA study, which was finally carried out by the AGES. [[Member of the FPÖ will detach a poster entitled “SUMM-SUMM-SUMM of the ÖVP-“Life Minister” will kill us bees!”]] [[Abg. Kickl: Mr Minister, read this!]] The aim was to identify possible links between bee losses and bee diseases and the use of plant protection products. In March, the European Commission presented a draft for a partial ban on neonicotinoides in relation to bee hazards. At the end of April, Austria, together with other Member States, put forward a compromise proposal. Our compromise proposal was: Yes, we are, Austria is for a ban on neonicotinoides, but we want to have time and spatially limited exceptions.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e3505	Mr. Federal Minister, one second. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I should like to thank you for your help. Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e3532	The European Commission has not put this compromise to the vote. Our aim was to create a balance of interests, namely to protect bees and to safeguard the livelihoods of farmers, because an alternative to the prohibition of neonicotinoids is genetic engineering for some. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: fairy tales!]] Our eastern neighbours have said that if neonicotinoides are banned, they want to use genetic engineering – and that is what we want to prevent. We strictly reject genetic engineering. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The decision in Brussels has not found acceptance and has also caused much uncertainty and negative reactions in Austria. That is why we have tried to find a better solution and a broader basis for this decision. Despite all the emotions, it was always important to me to create a new basis of decision at an objective level, namely to find a better solution, which is also accepted by those concerned. [[The representatives of the FPÖ show posters with the title: “ANNEX!!! GIFTINSERAT in the ÖVP sheet!’]] Last week I invited to a bee summit, including representatives of beekeepers, farmers and also science. The aim of this bee summit was to adapt the discussion on the protection of bee and also the use of neonicotinoids and to find a common solution. We have also succeeded in this common solution, because we have found a way that is portable for bees on the one hand, but that is also a common way for farmers. In the course of the discussion, it has been shown that there are other, essential causes of bee losses – even if neonicotinoids are banned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] This is a fact that can also be seen in our neighbouring countries. In Germany, the use of neonicotinoides has already been suspended, but the losses in bees in Germany are the same as in Austria. You see: in Germany no neonicotinoid use, in Austria already, there are equally high bee losses.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e3581	Mr Federal Minister, I have to interrupt you once again: Ladies and gentlemen, please roll in the transparency again! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e3606	But not only in Germany, the loss of bees despite the suspension of neonicotinoides is as high as in Austria, but also in Switzerland it is so that in the mountain area, where the neonicotinoides are not used, the loss of bees is as high as in the valley. And that's why we also need to explore the other causes of the world's bee losses. We need a common shoulder closure, and we have also achieved this with the beekeeper and the farmers. Therefore, the outcome of the summit is as follows: We have agreed to support the European Commission's proposal and to vote in agreement with the European Commission for a ban on neonicotinoides. I have already communicated this to Commissioner Borg. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, we have agreed with the beekeepers, farmers and science that we will award research contracts. I want to investigate the many causes of the loss of bees in Austria with the support of science. In this respect, we will also remain in contact with the European Commission, because this must be a pan-European concern. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There are already 50 studies!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: 50 studies!]] Bee programme for the beekeeper: Bees need to get more and no less. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The Ministry of Life has for years had a bee programme, which accounts for about € 2 million, where there is financial support for beekeepers, for example for investments, for the purchase of equipment, but also – very important! – in training for beekeepers. The positive effect of this bee programme, this beekeeper programme, is that beekeepers are better trained and that they fight the Varroa better than in other countries. That is to say, this programme is being expanded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury.]] In addition, we agreed that there will be a bee health programme. We'll work it out together with the beekeepers. In addition, there will also be biobee promotion. That's the beekeeper's point. But there is also a need for advice for farmers, because the maize is a very important crop and feed, and it is threatened by the corn root drill. This is a pest that destroys the corn plant and extends from Eastern Europe to Central Europe towards Western Europe. [[Call at BZÖ: This is also black!]] This has been with us, but it has not yet arrived in Western Europe, and that is why these funds have a certain meaning – particularly, Mr Strache, if you emphasize this here, even for small farmers in the Styria, who have little area that cannot produce fruit. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not one!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] A large farmer gets easier, a small farmer doesn't get that easy. It is therefore important that we take care of these farmers here, because I repeat: Our eastern neighbours have said that if the neonicotinoides are banned, they want to use genetic engineering because otherwise they will not get under control of the corn root drill. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's stupid!]] We reject this, we reject genetic engineering! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] When the genetic engineering or the genmais is used in our eastern neighbours, the farmers have a problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] By putting the gene-changed pollen to Austria, the organic farmers and the other farmers have a problem in Austria, and the beekeepers also have a problem. It has already been found in honey genetically modified pollen. And I want to protect the beekeepers and also the farmers from genetic engineering influences. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Haha Rufe at the FPÖ.]] Above all, it is important that alternatives are now being developed for these small farmers and for other areas in the field of seeds, and therefore a special consultation programme is needed, as the farmers are now changing. We need research and development to develop new methods that farmers can use when neonicotinoids are banned. Many farmers will also have losses of crops due to the pests. [[Abg. Huber: There are!]] And there will also be a need for compensation, and we will also strive to do so. Another focus will be that we bring bees and consumers together. We lead a lot of children at farms, we lead children in the forest as part of forest pedagogical tours to be confronted with ecological cycles. We will also bring children and families closer to the life of bees and bees. There is a training program for children where folk schools go to Beekeepers, we will expand it. We also want to bring beekeepers to schools and vice versa to beekeepers so that they can get to know the contexts. However, the debate has also shown something different, namely that there is an increased need for transparency and information in the field of plant protection products for the public. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The legal basis for publishing this information is the Environmental Information Act. There has been a request for the quantity of neonicotinoides placed on the market. The legal basis of the Ministry's legal experts is that, in accordance with the existing Environmental Information Act, this information is subject to data protection. [[Between calls at the BZÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] But I am in favour of maximum transparency, and the population has a right to information, and that is why I have said – you can track it in the media – that around ten tons of neonicotinoids are used in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I've already published that!]] And in order to preserve data protection, the Ministry has obtained the legal agreement of the data subjects. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Data protection of whom?]] [[Abg. Strache: Data protection of chemical companies!]] Therefore, I can also tell you the following numbers on the active substances: Three active substances are used here: Clothianidine: 2 661 kilograms, Imidacloprid: 3 008 kilograms and thiamethoxam: 4 103 kilograms, exactly 9 772 kilograms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury.]] For the future, I think it makes sense that there is a revision of the Environmental Information Act. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We just had this in the committee!]] My proposal for a new regulation would bring full transparency to the neonicotinoids and plant protection products and would, for example, indicate the names and quantities of the individual active substances and the plant protection products placed on the market and the approval numbers. Last week, the ÖVP passed an amendment to the Environmental Information Act. In the sense of clarity and legal certainty, it would be useful to do the same. Another point: The MELISSA study is also subject to full transparency. The MELISSA study – I have already mentioned this – was an order from the federal and federal states. It was launched in 2008 by the AGES. And the AGES explains in an opinion on transparency that the independence of the MELISSA study was guaranteed by scientific standards and that the mission and final report were subject to an evaluation of external and independent researchers. The examinations were reviewed by the accreditation authority and all data were publicly published, both the interim reports and the final report. And the result has been presented by the AGES to Parliament in April 2012 in the Subcommittee on the Agriculture Committee. The presentation included the participating companies. You can convince yourself, that was the case back then. Finally, I would like to stress: Austria has always, in the past and especially now in the context of the debate on the common agricultural policy at European level, become known as sustainable, ecologically oriented agriculture, and has strengthened it. And we are proud of the achievements of our farmers. We are bioworld champions, no state in the European Union has so much organic farming, namely 20 percent of the area. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Lip confession! You are responsible for...!]] The environmental programme, under which 90 percent of the land is managed, is evidence that farmers are working environmentally oriented, that agriculture and the environment are not in conflict. I would therefore like to thank the farmers for their constant efforts and for their high-quality food. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our high-quality food is also a sign in the export industry and also successful on foreign markets. I also thank the around 25,000 beekeepers, who do a great job for man and nature. These do not simply have it through various threats, but we need to help them have helped in the past and will also help in the future. – Many thanks to the beekeepers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Klubobmann Strache, you asked me a urgent question. I will now come to their reply. Question 1: I have already mentioned this, it was crucial that some Member States have said that they want to use genetic engineering as an alternative to the neonicotinoids. Many neighbouring countries have said this officially, and we have always been clearly opposed to genetic engineering and the genmais and will do so in the future. In addition, the reason was that many small farmers are affected by such a ban and do not know how to use alternatives. And the EFSA study, which was written on behalf of the Commission, has itself stated that it needed further attempts to provide further data, so that there is no final report yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] On question 2: The voting behaviour was exclusively on a technical and scientific basis. [[Mr Haha-Rufe, Deputies of FPÖ and Greens.]] Question 3: Sure: no. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Is that now argued?]] Question 4: The MELISSA study – I have already done this – was a German-Bundesland cooperation and was commissioned to the AGES in October 2008. As regards transparency, the AGES stated that independence was ensured by scientific standards, that mandate and final report were subject to an evaluation of external and independent researchers, that the examinations were reviewed by the accreditation authority, and that the results were presented to Parliament. Theo Jachmann, whom you mention, never accompanied me. He was invited as an informant to this subcommittee. I was not present at this meeting. Question 5: No, no, no, There has also been no subsidies to date. On question 6: Of course not. Question 7: The Federal Food Safety Agency has carried out an assessment on the basis of the existing risk assessment of EFSA in the framework of the MELISSA study. It concluded that measures had been taken and that farmers had to comply with strict conditions. Questions 8 to 12: I have already answered that in my entrance statement. On the question 13: The quantities of active substances placed on the market of plant protection products by active substance groups are published annually in the Green Report. The areas of application are included: in agriculture, both for conventional and for organic farming, in forestry, in municipal applications in gardens and parks, as well as in road championships and also in the ÖBB, in small gardens and in leisure areas. According to our department, a total of 3,455 tonnes were placed on the market in 2011. The figures for 2012 and 2013 are not yet available. However, compared to 1991, the amount of active substance placed on the market in plant protection products fell by almost 25 percent. Question 14: The content of the ads corresponded to the legal objectives of the § 1 Agricultural Law and the Government Programme. Questions 15 and 16: If you are referring to agricultural media in print media of secondary reach or importance, I must point to the fact that the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management as a specialist ministry meets a special information requirement for the rural population. The Court of Auditors has recommended selecting media, theme, target group and richness, with priority being given to the target group. To the range: With 137,000 pieces of edition, the “Farmer Newspaper” is the richest newspaper in rural areas, reaching 76 percent of farmers. “Look into the country” has a circulation of around 156,000 pieces per month and is the most extensive agricultural-monthly magazine. These media were consciously used for target group communication. The circuits between 2006 and 2012 were 366 007 € and 501 758 € for the “Austrian Farmers Newspaper” according to information from the Public Relations Department. On the question 17: The "Austrian Farmers' Newspaper" belongs to the shareholders of Austrian Agricultural Publishers Druck und Verlags Gesellschaft m.b.H., Boerzeitung GmbH, AGRO Werbung GmbH, Neue Land Medien GmbH and Österreichischer Boerbund. The owner of “Blick to the Land” is according to Imprint the SPV Printmediae Gesellschaft m.b.H. [[Abg. Petzner: Now you have learned it in the meantime!]] On the question 18: Mr Klubobmann Strache, you yourself have made a statement of the facts; as you know, the investigations are still under way. Questions 19 and 20: The award of IT services, including the re-launch of the website www.lebensministerium.at, to LFRZ GmbH was made in accordance with the legal requirements of the Federal Procurement Act in force and the procedures provided for there, while respecting the fundamental freedoms of Community law and the prohibition of discrimination in accordance with the principles of free and fair competition and the equal treatment of all applicants and bidders. The commission of LFRZ GmbH by the Ministry of Life was therefore carried out, as LFRZ GmbH is a body from the point of view of procurement, through which the contracting authority, the Republic of Austria, is responsible for the supervision of its own service and LFRZ GmbH provides its services essentially for the Republic of Austria. The expenditure of the BMLFUW to LFRZ GmbH amounted to around €23.22 million in the years 2008 to 2012. This was particularly concerned with the areas INSPIRE and Invekos-GIS. The prices offered by LFRZ GmbH are comparable to other IT service providers and therefore correspond to the market situation. Therefore, there is an appropriate price. On question 21: With the withdrawal of the Central Working Group of Austrian Cattle Breeders, there is a new composition of the organs. According to this, the BMLFUW nominates eight members into the General Assembly, the Federal Ministry of Finance one member and the agricultural market Austria two members. The Executive Board consists of five members of the BMLFUW and one member of the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Agricultural Market Austria. This new composition also takes into account the strict view of the Court of Auditors with regard to § 10 Z 7 of the Federal Procurement Act in force. On the question 22: ==References====External links== Since a first draft work in the summer of 2012, the Austrian initiative has also achieved significant improvements for suppliers of old varieties and other niche products since May by the European Commission. For example, there is no need for authorisation of varieties for niche markets. In addition, no official field inspection is required for the registration in the variety register. In addition, the registration fees for small business operators are not included. On the question 23: The responsibility for the negotiations of the Services Directive lies with the BKA. The BMLFUW also delivered comments on this subject. The BMLFUW has expressed its opinion against the inclusion of the water sector in the scope of the Services Directive. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e3972	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, each club has an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e3999	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The debate on the death of bee in recent months has confirmed that almost all the parties in this House believe that a separation of the environment and agriculture sectors would be important, on the other hand useful. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for your consent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, today's meeting not only has the question of why bee deaths have not gone on since 2008 but also the question of what a member of the government should actually do in Austria in order to be allowed to remain in office at all, and what standards this House lays on such an office. We also need to look at this question today. When we heard Mr Berlakovich's statement of government in 2008, we found good conditions for finally a policy to come to this House, to these four locations, which will enable us to do something for our environment free of clientele policy, free of lobbyism policy and free of the business of friends. First doubts arose when we heard that 100 percent of the content of this declaration of government did not affect the four districts, but 100 percent of the farmers' stand alone. This was a little surprising for me, because we felt that this issue alone would not be a policy for the future: no environmental protection issue, no climate protection issue, no water protection policy. Ladies and gentlemen! It has been promised a number of things, such as the government declaration, which the Federal Minister has announced for the peasantry, in order to enforce the increase in the reimbursement of mineral oil tax. Well, the awakening came soon, because a few months later, not an increase in the oil tax refund for agricultural diesel, but the complete withdrawal of this refund was the result, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has led to a massive distortion of competition from Austrian farmers towards EU farmers, to a loss of €50 million, which farmers have no longer been able to do for themselves. But if this is really the case today, namely, the death of bee, one must, of course, also highlight some aspects of it in this context, on the one hand: How does this government stand as a secret of office? How does this government stand as a true lobbyism, to the influence of powerful corporations on politics in Austria? And what about credibility in general? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in fact this question is no longer about the death of bees alone. Meanwhile, the word “been dying” has become significant for the moral image of the entire Austrian Federal Government. That, unfortunately, is the terrifying one! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The people in Austria observe this as well. Mr Berlakovich, your balance sheet for the last five years is terrifying! It is a testimony to your personal failure and incompetence. In the last five years, you have been very open to the economy of friends, tax evasion and deficits in the inter-human field – as has the former Minister Strasser. In this context, I would remind you of the waste of taxpayers for a homepage. I remember your ducky behaviour in the field of seed regulation, when you hung on the tape of the upper 10,000 of the EU and the corresponding lobbyists and made a massive betrayal of Austrian interests. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true!]] I would remind you of your serious errors in public relations, Mr Minister: a money waste on taxpayers in millions by advertising and through your homepage. I would remind you that you have failed in the field of climate change policy, that you have done nothing in environmental policy at all, and that in the anti-atomic policy you are massively boycotting the opposition's requests – even a six-party proposal in the committee. – This too will probably have a lobbyist background. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The friendly economy with its ad circuits in friendly media and advertisements from pesticides manufacturers have already been addressed. An Austrian proverb reads: Only the dumbest calves look for themselves. – So if your paper is so advertised, you can only assume that this must be the case. I remember that a massive bee death was already under way in Germany in 2008. I made a request in 2010 which has not yet been completed. Mr Seehofer had already banned these pesticides in Germany. When I asked you a question in 2010 as to how this ban had an effect in Germany, you said that there was no more bee deaths in Germany; you can clearly read this in the answer to the question. The fact that there is still one thing in Austria is that you have not yet been able to follow the example of Germany, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the answer to the question, you say that bee dying affects 55 percent of the peoples. On the question of how much pesticides have been sold, give the information that 16 tons of pesticides have been sold in Austria. Why now, three years later, suddenly shudder behind a secret of office, can you interpret who wants to! I don't understand because you gave us all the information three years ago. At the same time, you have also said the untruth, and you will have to justify yourself in public, Minister of State. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] The daily “The Standard” wrote the following about the whole situation three days ago, I may quote: “The Minister for the Environment is very clear about the unreasonableness and incompetence of this red and black federal government, which keeps the flags of transparency high, but at the same time guides citizens to the light. Obviously, there are many interests there – just not those of the citizens. And not to forget the bees." But, ladies and gentlemen, today is not only about the position of Mr Berlakovich, but also about the entire Federal Government. The entire federal government is here today in the witness stand. The SPÖ will also have to justify the reasons why it has watched this drift for five years. The ÖVP will not only have to justify itself because Mr Schultes and Mr State Secretary will suddenly take the view that Minister Berlakovich is not responsible at all. – That’s the biggest thing at all! After five years come She said that Mr. Stöger was supposed to be responsible for the death of bee, and that he should have created a legal basis for this. I also miss the shout of Mr. Faymann and Mr. Klubobmann's cap. That would have been worth an opinion. The SPÖ will therefore also have to explain how it stands for competence, transparency and credibility in this country. That's what I'm doing. Mr Spindelegger, who holds the Code of Honor so high, must explain to us whether this Minister's misbehaviour is in line with the ÖVP's Code of Honor, for he will also have to explain this to his members of the ÖVP and also to the voters. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I can tell you that my 2010 request has not yet been completed. I therefore propose that the National Council decide, pursuant to § 43, in conjunction with § 59 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, to report to the Agriculture and Forestry Committee on Amendment No 1113/A(E) of the Members of Parliament to Neubauer and other Members of Parliament on the prohibition of neonicotinoid-beijzed maize seed for a period of 22 years. ==References== In addition, I believe that the Minister may leave his office.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e4112	Mr Neubauer, the deadline request has already been put into the agenda before the entry into force of the business regulations. The motion for a resolution tabled by you has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e4195	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e4218	Madam President. High house! First of all, I would like to express briefly to my stranger that parts of the opposition in their actionism today have been quite unspoiled about this very serious subject of bee dying. I would like to start by saying this in detail! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. You're talking about the President?- Oh, my God!]] To my previous speaker, I would like to say: Over two thirds of the farmers do not use this bee gift at all, organic farmers do not. Mr Berlakovich also said: Now, just take the flight and say that genetic engineering is in front of the door and the use of pesticides is the only alternative, as if there were no results or if you did not have the opportunity to stand for a Europe-wide ban on genetic engineering, that is not quite understandable either. I mean, there are possibilities for us to work for! That would also be a task that you and all of us should fulfil. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I had the record of the “Hohes Haus” program of 12th November. Let go of June 2011 – that's almost two years ago. At that time, the Agriculture SpÖ spokesperson, Mr Kurt Gaßner, was the first to say – I quote – in this programme: I think that this highly toxic drug is immediately banned, and not only when a study 2012 comes up. - Quote. Then Mr Berlakovich is quoted, as he said: I am not in favour of saying purely on rumors or suspicions that this or that is to blame, but that should be raised objectively. That's the meaning of this research project, that's why we do it. And then, when the results are all on the table, the consequences are drawn from it. - Quote. This may have been an opinion at the time when we said that, okay, there should be research projects, and then the results must be implemented. But by now two years have passed, and, Minister, no one has prevented you from making a ban by regulation – and that would be yours – for a long time. [[As a result of the SPÖ and the representatives of the FPÖ.]] This is something that I think is incomprehensible. However, I am not yet talking about the fact that at a time when you have already been aware of the fact that the EU and the Commission are assuming that you have to make a regulation, you have still voted against a ban. That does not mean any explanation. Only you will be able to explain why you have finally chosen this path. I also do not think it is all right if genetic engineering is not only painted on the wall as a terror, which is not at all the alternative to these bees, but is now still claimed to be the responsibility of Minister Stöger, because you know very well that Minister Stöger is not responsible for this. As a Minister of Agriculture alone, you can take the decisive steps here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schools.]] I have already been waiting for you, Mr Schulteis, because you are at the heart of the problem here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] They are, in fact, the one who is constantly opposed to this, constantly blocked and constantly rejects any change. You're the one! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Accept a motion of censure!]] In this context, I have also immediately looked at the Minister's homepage to the bee summit. There are a lot of good points included, since I do not want to say anything about it, but one point is very interesting. There it says: “Consciousness education – Training programme for adult school children”. - They're supposed to get to know the work of the beekeepers. I have to tell you, Mr Schulteis, that you should have a training programme so that he can get to know the work once, and a few uneducated farmers' federal officials from Lower Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Schools: Please without “i”!]] Now would be, I think, the moment you should do something. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens, BZÖ and Team Stronach.]] So we know what we're talking about here: Mr. Vice-Chancellor can certainly not have meant the statement “In doubt for the bee” in the sense of “In doubt for the defendant”, for the bee is not accused, but the bee is victim. And let's look at what bees do as an engine of the ecosystem – we should focus on this seriously once –: 80 percent of all crops, 90 percent of all fruit trees depend on pollination by honey bees! [[Abg. Kickl: Without bees no red cloves!]] No other animal – you should also be writing; if you already have bee badges here, Mr Kickl, you should also be writing! –, no machine can take over this work. A third of what we eat would not have been without bees. That is why this is a very serious issue. There we can't bluff around and not do joke with the bee Maya and other things, but that's serious to take. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl]] This concerns the ecosystem, which affects all of us, including our food and our food. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: There must even the Darabos laugh!]] To make this clear: €22 billion is the value added by bees in the European area, and €153 billion they produce globally. These are numbers that show how valuable bees are to our system. Therefore, it is particularly irresponsible for chemical companies to perform lobbying internationally, try to buy themselves, also try to influence investigations. I think it is particularly great to carry out studies on the effects of bee poisons with the help of producers of bee poisons. I don't understand. But that is what those, at European level, at national level, do everywhere. So we know what we're talking about: These are nerve poisons that lead to the death of the bee from a quarter of a billion grams onwards. The result is that if the bees are not dead, they lose any orientation, so that they no longer find the bees and fall out of the ecosystem. Billions of bees died of it. And these are points you can't just move away. As the parasite Varroamilbe is always cited: Studies prove that the Varroamilbe, this parasite, is then available if the affected bees peoples are no longer able – I quote – to regulate the temperature in the nest, which affects the development of these bees so negative that these parasites develop. – Don't wake up with your hand like that, but it's so! [[in the direction of the Abg. Ing. Schultes]] Mr Schultes, you do not want to take note of this study. [[Abg. Grosz: He's a bee killer!]] I understand. You are interested in your agricultural industry and not the bees. [[Abg. Strache: Then you agree today! SPÖ, agree!]] Then come out and say this now, so that it's clear once! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We therefore believe that we should now take this seriously. The Subcommittee of the Committee on Agriculture will continue to monitor this, both as regards the implementation of this EU Commission Regulation and further steps, further evaluations. [[Abg. Kickl: We don't need to talk anymore, it's all said!]] This really needs to be worked on, with full transparency. The Environmental Information Act and the mandatory information law are sufficient, and on the basis of this, this transparency will continue to be possible in the future. Again: This is a serious issue, and we all here are required to work for the bees and thus for our ecosystem and for healthy nutrition.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e4423	Mr Klubobmann's head is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e4455	Madam President, I should first like to congratulate you on your tasteful costume and also warmly welcome you at the same time. [[President Mag. Prammer wears a black and yellow costume]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Prolonged calls.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I have rarely, ladies and gentlemen, experienced such a lying discussion as this one is now taking place. [[Abg. Petzner: Lower drawer!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] It's very rare! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap, there can be no doubt at all that the bee is an important agricultural animal without the existence of which many plants would actually be threatened. But let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen: [[Call: ÖVP and honest is a contradiction]] In the household, in the garden, we all use chemicals and chemical products – every day. [[Call: Who is responsible?]] We use chemical products in the production of goods – every day. Yes, even in the pharmaceutical industry, we use chemical products for healing, life saving, life extension. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, even to protect bees, chemical products are used, because otherwise they would be affected by mites and the like. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] So even there, such things are used. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is our responsibility and, of course, the responsibility of the competent authorities to examine with particular care the side effects that may occur in these products, to assess risks and benefits and to decide in the final analysis whether a product is authorised or not. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The competent ministers! The Minister of Agriculture!]] [[Abg. New builder: Read the package text!]] This discussion is ongoing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the inconspicuous discussion whether a particular plant protection product is due to the accumulation of bee-death [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Of course it is!]] I have considerable doubts that many of those who have spoken here and are still going to speak are actually about assessing benefits and risks, but this is about cheap political change! And this is to be condemned, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: such nonsense!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. List.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us try to have a differentiated discussion and consideration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] Many farmers are threatened by the so-called corn root drill, a pest, in their existence, in the clean production of food existentially threatened. [[Abg. Grosz: But this is a black beetle, the corn root drill!]] They therefore use fermented seeds to combat this pest and to produce healthy food. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinions of the experts differ. A study by the EU, the EU Parliament, says that neo-notinoids are dangerous – yes, for bees. A study by the AGES, the Food Safety Agency in Austria, says that the use of these funds is reasonable. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not true!]] And there are a number of experts – including Mr Pirklhuber, who confirmed this in committee – who say that there are a variety of causes that are due to bee death, and certainly not only the use of neonicotinoids. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's right! Of course!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's right! Of course!]] Your expert, who took part in the SPÖ survey yesterday, Mr. Dr. Burtscher, has also confirmed that this is a drop in this large barrel, which now causes it to overflow, but a variety of causes are responsible for the death of bee. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Burtscher!]] You confirm it yourself, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You can admit that!]] This Hatz, ladies and gentlemen, which is being held here against our Minister for the Environment and Agriculture, is really objectionable and can be rejected! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Election campaign!]] That's what he's looking for. They're malicious precepts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Berlakovich is accused of not complying with his obligation to provide information. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] In the reasoning of the Green motion for a resolution – you really beat yourself with your own weapons, my fellow Members Steinhauser, Pilz and friends – you throw They intend to be guilty of the abuse of office because he or his officials have not issued the information because they believe that it is contrary to the data protection of these individual companies. [[Abg. Brosz: Now comes the standard! That's what I've expected!]] In Vienna, ÖVP Vienna requests to the city government and wishes to have information about the consultants of the individual departments, including that of Ms Vassilakou, the green councillor. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Oh!]] What do the members of the government there answer? – They say they can’t release that, unfortunately, because data protection is against it. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Transport councillor Vassilakou also argues as well as the officials of the Ministry of Agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to detract from the problem of bee death. For God's sake, no! Bees, I've already said it, are important agricultural animals. But playing undifferentiated plant protection against bees is really not all right. We've had the problem of bee dying for years. There was a programme in 2006 which was effectively set up by the competent ministry and which resulted in us having today again the status of bee peoples we had in 2000, although it fell by about 20 percent in 2006. That is to say, this programme, without ban on pesticides, has led to the resumption of nearly 380 000 bee peoples in Austria today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We had this stand in 2000, and in 2006 it was down to 300,000 – just to your memory. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for Agriculture has done exactly what is responsible in Brussels: It has presented an alternative proposal by acting in favour of a ban on these pesticides, but with the possibility of providing for regional and for certain reasons exceptions as to how appropriate it would have been. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not true! That's wrong!]] Unfortunately, this proposal has not been adopted or has not been put to the vote at all. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Where's your request, colleague? Where has your colleagues' request been in the Subcommittee?]] The EU Commission will now ban these pesticides for two years – should be – without having any clear evidence that these pesticides are inherent and primarily responsible for the death of bee, as you yourself, Mr Pirklhuber, confirm. But, as our party officer said, In any doubt and also in this heated discussion and in this heated mood, where, unfortunately, Mr Cap, you are not able to hold any more objective discussion, I am also in favour of supporting and, of course, implementing this ban, which the Commission will soon issue in the form of a regulation. [[Abg. May. Rudas: I apologize to the President!]] But let us be clear: We fall with this without offering them an alternative, many small farmers in Austria in existential problems. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's not true either!]] That must be clear to us. That is, if we confess and believe in this ban so that we can contribute to the protection of bees, then we do so, but then we also have the obligation to do everything we can to help these farmers in the search for an alternative and to get under the arms.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e4911	Mr. Klubobmann's head, for the accusation of the "lying discussion", I give you a call for order. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard!]] The next item is Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e4963	Thank you, Madam President. – I can already take up the word “lying discussion” because rarely has I received a statement from a Federal Minister with so many half-truths, untruths and twisted facts. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Today is actually an extraordinary situation: The whole opposition, namely the club members Glawischnig, Strache, Bucher, Lugar, colleagues and colleagues, brings together a motion of censure. This is rare in the history of Austrian parliamentarianism. But, Mr Klubobmann Cap, there is still room for this request, the three letters for “Cap”, “C”, “a” and “p”, we could still accommodate. This is a warm invitation to support this motion for a reluctance. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Kopf, I have now had the impression in your opinion that you have not yet taken note of part of Austrian reality. They have always talked about a proportionality between poisons and agriculture. There are thousands of farmers in Austria who produce without any poison. This is called organic farming, and they are very successful. It's amazing that you're completely hiding it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] You have obviously never heard a word, it is called a precautionary principle. This has obviously never been heard by the Minister for the Environment – I can hardly speak the word – either. I invite you to submit studies on the basis of which you can prove that neonicotinoids are harmless. And that's exactly the point: Substances are allowed where one is not aware of the effects they actually have. And then studies for studies for studies across Europe have to be written to prove that a substance is harmful. It would have to be the other way around. [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: It all belongs forbidden!]] And this is a very important principle in ecology, namely the precautionary principle: only use substances when it is proven that they are found to be harmless. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] I can also simply translate it and say it in a very simple sentence: Mr Berlakovich, what part of the word “gift” did you not understand? – That's how it can be formulated. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] The Austrian bees obviously have a problem: You cannot become a member of the Austrian Farmers' Federation. I have the impression that you are misusing some of the agriculture and some of the farmers who have been driven in by a missing agricultural policy in maize monocultures by incentive policy, agrodiesel debate, biogas debate, in order to now exclusively represent the interests of the chemical companies. That's not all right. I would like you to consider how you can get out of these corn monocultures, that you can offer changeover promotions, that also help farmers to do so without waving the genetic engineering culture. This is very unscrupulous. There are alternatives, and they simply do not call themselves corn on maize on maize on maize, but fruit-sequenced. And that is, I think, easy to do even in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Rarely so many untruths and rarely so many twisted facts. – Today we have chosen this T-shirt because it expresses a very deep wisdom: [[Members of the Greens wear a yellow t-shirt with the label “Without Bee we go Maya”]] “Without bee we go Maya”. This is an immediate expression and essentially contains the wisdom that has already been the subject, namely that the pollination and this fertility cycle in ecology are something fundamental, something so fundamental that it cannot be a question for an environmental minister at all, on which side he asks himself. You, Mr Minister, have always been on the side of the wrong people on this issue - throughout the discussion, and this has been going on for years. I would like to point out once again what you have actually done and where you have also said the untruth. After the first vote, on 15. March, there was an opinion from the Ministry on the first vote. You argued this way: Many countries, including Austria, are calling for technical work on this subject. – But it was exactly the other way round: Many countries demanded a ban on neonicotinoides. A majority of EU countries demanded a ban on neonicotinoides. And turning this around in such a way that many countries still need scientific work is a real twist of the core, namely that Austria has put itself on the side of the chemical lobby with a few other countries. In the second vote: Germany has swivelled. The big chemical industry in Germany has swivelled: Neonicotinoides are prohibited, and are also reversing at the European Commission level. And Austria is still in its position. Now, the next argument is that this is what I can't say differently: untruths, that is, you say: There is no scientific data. – That is clearly wrong! I would recommend you read the study carefully once. Do you know that – leading – it was the Austrian Environment Agency that gained these findings? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] And there's very clear inside, these three nicotinoides are no longer acceptable. It's clear inside! I am surprised that you do not want to take note of the work of an Austrian institute that has worked for the European Commission. That's scandalous! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then it goes on: Then you come with the official secret and then you come to it with the argument that the legal situation does not allow it. – All the well-known experts in Austria have told you that it is illegal for you to keep this information secret. For aggregated quantity data, you need to explain to me where the data protection is. Aggregated quantity data is simply a quantity indication. Whose personal data will then be protected? – The bees or who? So it is simply such a stupid sense, which has been said by you, that no one of the environmental judges and no one of the environmental judges can only understand what is meant here. Then the next attack: With regard to environmental information, you say that you want more transparency now, but refuse information in the committee, when it comes to legislation, and there are also international treaties that repeatedly remind us that we do not comply with international agreements in the field of environmental information – and that is your place of business. All of this is so absurd – yes, I can't help but expressing once again the “lying discussion” of Klubobmann's head. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – I also like to take a call for order for it. The semi-truths are now continuing: Then comes the bee summit, and you say that we have now decided to support the Commission proposal. – You should have done that anyway! This is exactly the procedure: After there has been no qualified majority in this committee, the Commission is on the train, and Austria has to accept and implement this! And here to organise a summit and say, now we support the proposal, is a real PR event that has nothing to do with reality. [[Abg. Großruck:... no PR event!]] In reality, you have no longer resisted the pressure of the population, and this pressure has rightly arisen. The people are really tired of being so perplexed on this issue. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] I think you know very well that the Austrian Greens do not agree with your environmental policy. I can now list a long list: the errors in fine dust, the 30 000 children who have lung diseases and wait for measures where you refuse to show any approaches here, the climate protection policy, where you have presented a climate protection law that has not saved a single gram of CO2, right?It does not contain a single measure – that you have been wrong in the Agro-Sprit and that you continue to force the addition, although Europe as a whole has now come to an end. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] So the list could continue for a very long time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] But this current procedure is so outrageous that there is no alternative for the Austrian Parliament, Mr Klubobmann Cap, as indeed a mistrust amendment that I am submitting here. Request for Distrust The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management is defined as follows: 74 B-VG does not trust.” This is done on behalf of Members Glawischnig, Strache, Bucher, Lugar, colleagues. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, BZÖ and Team Stronach.]] And, Mr Cap, you are cordially invited to join this!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e5124	Mrs. Club Chairman Glavischnig, I think it is completely inappropriate for us here in this room to throw up a “lying discussion” and therefore I also give you a call for order. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] The request for distrust submitted by you is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e5333	Mr Klubobmann Bucher came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e5354	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, also at home in front of the screens! If you have followed this discussion now: It's election campaign. [[Abg. Amon: Yes, that's right!]] The electoral battle rhetoric is already in play and set. And because I just heard the upper beekeeper of the nation of Josef Cap, I can only say: Mr Cap, I can assure you that the bees are not entitled to vote in Austria, only for information – thank God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] One really felt that it was primarily a matter of impressing the public in some way, but not putting the matter in the foreground. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Also at the address of the ÖVP: You have now had a total of three years to think about what we are doing against the death of bee. The first request of the BZÖ – ladies and gentlemen, also at home, which is to be read with the Parliamentary materials – was made on 5 May. May 2010, almost on the day exactly three years ago. At that time we tabled a motion for a resolution, where we asked the Federal Minister to prohibit immediately the use of seeds that damage bees. This has been preceded by a request from us, in May 2010, i.e. three years ago. – Mr Cap, three years ago, there were questions with confirmed answers from the Federal Minister: Yes, there is a research project called "MELISSA", where it was clearly noted that bee dying was examined on the basis of this research methodology, which we asked for, and wherever it was to be read as an answer that this research project lasts from 2009 to 2010, i.e. two years. Then you answered why nothing happens if already in 2010 it was clear that these pesticides contribute to the death of bees. You write: In 2011, i.e. one year after the study, these results will be evaluated again. Mr Federal Minister, now you have to somehow make clear to the interested public why you have delayed for two years what you have already experienced in 2009 on the basis of these studies that have been funded there! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] – That is the central question, that is the question of indebtedness, Mr Federal Minister! – Yes, but you have basically known for three years that these pesticides lead to the death of hives in Austria. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Research...!]] You've known that for three years, and you haven't done anything about it. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Strict conditions for farmers!]] You didn't do anything about it! This is exactly the accusation we are making to you, but we are also making the SPÖ, which has now returned to the light and says again, the Minister is guilty of everything! – You would also have had the power to support what we brought in three years ago. If you had read through the results of the reply of the Federal Minister or our request at the time, you could have agreed at the time. But a scandal must always happen, otherwise nobody moves – neither from the SPÖ nor from the ÖVP. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And it's not even enough more scandals alone. – A few months ago, we discussed here the speculation dilemma in Salzburg and analysed this scandal, and all have come to the conclusion that we must ban speculation with tax money in this Republic. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, for information: To this day, taxes can still be speculated in this Republic! – So much to the demands of red and black in the high house, which are not worth anything that is actually useless. Mr Berlakovich, I have always felt that you have only a menacing attitude to self-representation, as you can see from the ads you have posted in recent years, but what you have now caused with this bee death, that is quite frankly beyond all expectations. You have to ask yourself openly if you are still taking your job seriously, namely your job as an environmental minister. [[Call the BZÖ:No!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Lobbyist!]] You can't represent these actions you put in there. And above all: It's all not known since yesterday or yesterday. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, for months and years, we have been discussing the fact that in your ministry, this self-indulgence has taken on dimensions that have not been acceptable for a long time. And if you, Mr Federal Minister, had a spark, you would have resigned yesterday and would not have to let this reproach pass on to you in the House today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You have to imagine this: We have already presented to you in the Committee of Inquiry that: They actually appear as a member of the “Austrian Farmers’ News”; You didn't even know that. – A Federal Minister does not know that he appears as a member of a prominent Austrian newspaper, which gives him sufficient funds to provide tax resources, like many other members of the ÖVP club, when I read this: Hermann Schultes, Jakob Auer, Nikolaus Prinz, Grillitsch, Gahr, jewelry beater, Donabauer, Heller – and of course Berlakovich. [[the reading of the individual names is accompanied by Öh-Rufen at BZÖ and FPÖ]] They are all members of the “Austrian Farmers’ News. ” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] – There will be one, two others; I haven't found everyone in the hurry now. Everyone at home can look at the website www.bauernzeitung.at that the half ÖVP National Council Club appears as a member and the Federal Minister, together with the chemical companies, feeds this newspaper and provides enough money to this newspaper. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: That would be nice!]] So, Minister, I can only give you the call: Stop the ad bombs, stop the environmental bombs, and finally step back! That would be the right answer to the records that have been made to you. I am very glad that we succeeded in setting up this subcommittee for bee dying. Why Reluctant Are you still doing this? Why put on ice the intermediate results or in the meantime final results of these studies and do not tell us what really were the reasons for the death of bee? That's alone. Your fault, Federal Minister Berlakovich! This is your non-binding of the information you actually have, and there you are looking for protection behind the official secret. – This is absurd: On the one hand, at the hour is the Federal Minister for Finance in Brussels to betray the banking secret to every citizen in Austria, and you are looking for protection behind the official secret in Austria. This is absurd, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, Federal Minister Berlakovich, a clear one No from our side to the environmental poisons and also – on the occasion because it belongs to it – to banking secrecy. Finally enter the march home to Burgenland, and make You will be free for an environmental minister who deserves this name too!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e5514	Now comes Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e5535	Madam President. High house! I would just like to add to the speech by Mr Kopf, who said something very interesting today. He said that chemicals are used everywhere, in people, in the medical sector, in almost all areas of life and, of course, in agriculture, of course also in bees. And you said one thing: It's about a cost-benefit analysis, it's about weighing the risks and comparing them with the benefits. - And that's exactly the jumping point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] The point is that on the one hand, you weigh the risks that others carry, and on the other hand, the profit that farmers and agriculture incur. And that's the problem! That means as soon as you make an analysis here, but the risks others carry do not include, we have the problem. We see this problem also in many other areas. We have experienced this at the banks with the toxic papers, where they entered the profits, but have not thought about the risks and the consequences. And who paid for the consequences? – The citizen, the public! [[Abg. Amon:... incomprehensible!]] And that's exactly what happens in agriculture. Let's take a look at it! – Some of you have today addressed the corn root drill and have said that if we do not use these chemicals that do not use poisons, this corn root drill destroys the entire harvest and then Austria is practically without corn. [[Abg. Grosz: He's also a black one, the beetle!]] Now this is not the truth, for the truth is: The reason why this corn root drill is used at all, why it can multiply at all, is because there is no longer any result. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] That is, these monocultures, which we operate here, where we grow the same products every year on the same surfaces, have only led to the fact that these pests can spread accordingly. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And now the question would be: Is that necessary? Is it necessary that we do not make a profit? – Nothing else is involved, because the result would also cost profit, you have to know. That is, on the one hand, we have the greed of profit, and on the other hand we are working with poisons, and the consequences of these poisons are carried by someone else. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] And that's the point! – That means it's about profit: One does not want to give up profit here and simply buys the harmful environmental influences. And these environmental influences are not just about bees, we know. The MELISSA study realized in 2008 – already at the beginning of the study – that there is a clear link between these poisons and bee dying. [[Abg. Höfinger:... jobs!]] But that's not all. These poisons also concern people directly, not only about the detour through the bees: We find these poisons in groundwater, we find them in all possible plant residues, and these poisons come into the food cycle, which is also proven. And here we are in terms of compensation and risk assessment. It is simply taken by agriculture to buy this risk because profit maximisation is the first place. And that's the point! [[Abg. Hoefinger: And what about... from Frank?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] And then the Minister says here today: For God's sake! We cannot give up on these poisons, otherwise the Eastern countries will come and want to introduce genetic engineering! [[Call the FPÖ: Shit!]] - Where are we?- Oh, my God! If we have realized that something is not only toxic to the bees, but also harmful to us people, then let us not let anyone blackmail us, according to the motto: Then let's just take the other one, which is also harmful, and you can choose it, plague or cholera! - Where are we?- Oh, my God! We have farmers in Austria who make it up to us, who comply with the results that produce without poison. And what are we doing? – Nevertheless, we want to continue to produce poisons, and that against every reason. And here is exactly the point that the Minister has raised – sustainability. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] [[Abg. Amon:... Truth!]] It is not sustainable if we produce more at all costs on the one hand, maximize the profit and on the other hand take the whole risk and the problems we have with it into purchase. [[Abg. Amon: Mr. Stronach...!]] But this is the EU's policy. The EU has the following policy – and this must be done once on the tongue –: On the one hand, it maximizes – i.e. no fruit succession, fertilizers at all prices, all possible pesticides to produce as much as possible – and on the other hand – and on the other hand, the least known, the EU spends €20 million each year in Austria alone for decommissioning premiums. Over 100 000 hectares have been closed down in Austria. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true!]] This area – which is almost a tenth of the total area of Austria – has been closed down by the EU, and hundreds of tons of so-called glyphosate are still being spent on these decommissioning areas – Roundup is the common term for this – so as not to have to manage these decommissioning areas. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: How can you claim this? That's not true!]] That is to say, with 400,000 tonnes of chemicals, it is prevented from growing a little on these decommissioning areas, instead of maintaining a proper crop production and producing healthy food there. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] That would be possible! And then the Minister says: We have far too few areas in Austria, we cannot produce healthy! [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] Why? – Because these areas, supported by the EU, need to be decommissioned. And that's where you wonder what a meaning it is! What does it make sense to use chemicals on one hand to produce more, and on the other Side by large parts of our agricultural areas – supported by the EU – and sprayed with chemicals, so that nothing more grows, and ultimately that burdens the environment? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I can already imagine that the ÖVP has no joy when you put the farmer in the window and animated them to rethink. It's just a rethink. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Steinbichler ask!]] It is about that we imitate 20 percent of the farmers in Austria who have proven that it is without chemistry, without poison as well. They produce exactly the food you probably have on the plate, because you will probably also buy organic food because you know how harmful the other foods are, just like these pesticides, herbicides and how they are all hot stuffed. And I assume that you also do not want to live next to such decommissioning areas, where tons of glyphosate are then released, which then causes problems for children and older people. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true what you say!]] That is, if you were to live next to a farmer who is doing this kind of farming, then you would have You probably have a problem with that too. But since that's probably not the case, you don't care. Look, it's going a lot further. If you look at the EU's seed regulation, you can see in what way we landed. In the meantime, we have banned the seeds that would be multiplyable. You have to imagine that! For tens of thousands of years, the farmer has been going here, reaping his grain, holding back part and sowing this grain again. You've managed the agricultural lobby to prevent that. That is to say, this new EU regulation means that there is virtually no more cereals around the world that can be recyclable and reproducible and can therefore serve as seeds. That is, if any seed no longer comes from the warehouse or from other suppliers, Monsanto and as they are all called, then the farmer has no more chance to produce something. And in such a world we live! We live in a world where Monsanto controls everything that treats the seeds according to genetic engineering, prohibits the use of all other seeds, even prohibits the use of punishment, even persecutes farmers who want to sow their own seeds again – we are already so far! – and on the other hand, the chemicals produce immediately to spray down everything and destroy everything that is not in the focus of profit. In a world like that, we live! And there's the question: Do we want to live in such a world? – And I say: No, we don't want to live in such a world, but we want healthy food, we want farmers who, in addition to their profit interest – I admit to them, every farmer has to live – also the interests of the people, the bees, the living beings and the whole environment! We could need that. We don't have that at the Minister for the Environment, he won't do it. The Minister for the Environment is unable to bring the agricultural interests and environmental interests into line, he is unable to do so. But perhaps the farmers are thinking about it, or perhaps one day we get an environmental minister who also deserves this name and who is actually thinking about this component and not just thinking about the farmers' efforts to profit. And then we're at the target and then we have healthy food. And if these foods are then a little more expensive, that may be, then there are many ways to compensate for that. But I'll tell you one thing: I prefer healthy foods that are a little more expensive than foods that are poisoned, ultimately burden people and cause even more costs in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e5781	Mr Jannach is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e5802	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Lugar, as an agricultural spokesperson of the FPÖ, I have to clarify a little more: I am also very specific about the fact that farmers who are using plant protection products are now using flat-rate smiles. I have to make this clear to the FPÖ. This is only about the use of neonicotinoids. If farmers who use plant protection products are flattened here, we don't think that's right. We think that this is a more than inconspicuous debate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We're discussing the neonicotinoides, they're the bites on the seeds. And, Minister, take a quick look: Environmental Information Act. – You argued with the silence of office and meant that you could not give up these things. They have submitted an application to the committee or at least wanted to discuss it that this law was amended. I wonder what has changed since 2010. Here we have a request from our colleague Werner Neubauer – please let me speak! – who asked in 2010 how much has been used by these poisons. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: More providers!]] In 2010, the Minister responded to a half-kilogram exactly as regards the whole of the ingredients: Clothianidine 6 359.2 kilograms. For the other ingredients exactly up to half a kilo the information on these sprays. The same companies have produced them. And now, Minister, hide behind the Environmental Information Act. That's anything but credible! [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] You have already published it in 2010. Now, because of public pressure, you just didn't dare to publish it. Especially cowardly! I am not in favour of a change in the environmental information law, because the previous one is sufficient, because this answer to the question confirms that. Mr. Klubobmann's head! A short replica is also available on your versions. You quoted the Melissa study. In the Melissa study, bee mortality was studied in the time of 1. ==References== ==References== This study has been presented in the Subcommittee of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on plant protection products, which is also available on the homepage of the AGES, and this study has a very remarkable content. The most remarkable thing that can be found in this study is – and you have not mentioned that – that this study was prepared with the participation of Syngenta Agro GmbH, Bayer Austria and BASF Austria in financing. € 115 000 these companies have contributed to the financing of this study. If you don't recognize any conflict of interest here, I don't know what to do anymore. [[Congratulation with the FPÖ and the Abg. Huber.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] As I said, just these companies, which produce these funds today, which are used to produce these bean seeds for the corn seed, have co-financed this study. And I think it is extremely inappropriate for the AGES to get such co-financers into the boat, because this is lobbyism already at the level of the authorities, for there is an attempt to influence the investigation of the AGES and this study. That is why I consider the study to be very, very unbelievable in many parts. Then we come to a point that has already been raised, I think, by the head of my colleague. The corn root drill is actually a problem in corn production. And that's what we see from the FPÖ. If you grow corn on corn on corn, you have a problem. And that's why these neonicotinoids are used – in order to make this understandable – simply, these are abrasives. And it's a threat to the farmers. We have also received some complaints saying that these funds are necessary. But now this debate is happening to me like that about the mountain farmers. The Ministry knows at least since 2009, Minister of Agriculture, that there is a chaos in the question of alpine farmers, that the area surveys are not true. However, they have not done anything to date, and the Fischler Commission has so far been inactive. In the case of plant protection products, the neonicotinoids we are discussing today, exactly the same is the case. We have known for at least three or four years – if you have a political sense, then you know from Brussels – that these funds are banned. But you have done nothing to prepare the farmers for the end of these peat products, and now the farmers are there. They put them into investment two years ago. New seeding machines have to buy them. You must, of course, take courses at the Chambers of Agriculture in order to ensure that they do so properly. Now the funds are banned, and the farmers are facing a huge problem. Mr. Klubobmann's head, you're perfectly right: Yeah, that's a big problem! But here's a lot bigger problem. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Huber.]] Here is the big problem, because he has closed his eyes and acted according to the motto, it will somehow go well, we will already sort of arrange ourselves in Brussels. – And that just went wrong now. The Ministry does not have a plan B for the alpine areas or the plant protection products. The only thing where the Minister has a plan B – and here I come to the next point, which would be sufficient as a reason for a resignation – is quite clearly the funding from the Ministry of Life to the Farmers' Federation. This concerns the entire ads, like here those in the "Austrian Farmers' Newspaper", i.e. the ÖVP Farmers' Newspaper. The Minister is quite right, and I can do something about this: The plant protection companies advertise in this paper because it reaches the farmers. The argument has something for itself. It only becomes very unbelievable when you see that these ads are turned on here. Now I'll show it again. [[The speaker shows an advertisement.]] In the case of plant protection products, the target group must be reached. Mr Auer, I think, has nothing to do with applying plant protection products in the underground newspaper. That's right, too! But I wonder why milk products are then advertised through the AMA marketing in the farmer's newspaper and therefore bring the ads closer to those who produce these milk products. It would be better to advertise this in a subway newspaper so that consumers can buy it, not in a farmer's newspaper. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is also the transfer of funds from the Ministry of Agriculture directly to the Farmers' Federation, shown by the Court of Auditors. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] There are still many groups here that benefit. There is the Forum Land that we have displayed. There are 3 million going directly from the Ministry to a peasant federal platform. The Eco-Social Forum receives 600 000 a year, and it has not yet helped a single farmer. There are countless associations in the field of organic farming, which are being promoted. And up here, the godfather's sitting here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Here is the guarantee that the money will be moved further. Here's a plan. We have no plan for the plant protection products and we have no plan for the alpine areas either. There the farmers are left standing in the rain. Minister! You will definitely be remembered after the National Council election. You will no longer be ministers, but you will remember that as a minister who has left a mess in the alpine areas, 30 000 hectares from 2007 to 2009 are wrong. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] One will remember that you have massively burdened the farmers with a savings package in 2012: Community policy, EC internal market, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy It will be remembered that you have commissioned a €4 million home page, which may, roughly estimated, be worth €400 000. The rest went to your friends and friends. And finally, you will also remember that here you are one of the greatest and I think you are one of the worst lobbyists for agrochemistry and here you are in the throng – this may be an undertone, but, Minister Berlakovich, in my perception and in the public, you have turned out to be a lobbyist, also with your insidiousness. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] This fast bee summit now and this 180-degree turnout doesn't buy you any human at all! Mr Minister, you have basically sold your opinion for the second time, under the pressure of the public: for the first time to agrochemicals and their companies and for the second time to pressure public opinion! Your vice chancellor has distanced himself from you; the Lower Austrian councillor Stephan Pernkopf has distanced himself from you, and the Upper Austrian Landtag today decides a resolution for an absolute ban on bee resources. Minister Berlakovich, you're on a lost job. It would therefore be appropriate for you to withdraw today. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] I still have a brief request, which we do not need to put to the vote today, but which I consider to be very, very essential, because there are different evidences of expertise for farmers in the production of plant protection products. In short, nine federal states, nine different rules of application for farmers. Therefore: There is a need for a uniform system! We ask you to take action there. It cannot be that, in this context, Upper Austrian farmers need a five-hour course, Lower Austrian farmers need one of eight hours – of course everything at the agricultural chambers, so that they also get their money – and some do not need a course at all! – These differences are not reasonable! That is why our request to act in this direction is to create a uniform law which also regulates this; and, of course, private use with regard to the use of such means. This has to be clarified, because now it is like this: Every citizen can go to a building market and can, for example, buy round-up or any other plant protection product without a problem, have no control to fear, have no training to do for it and no training needs to be carried out and no proper storage needs to be carried out. Farmers, on the other hand, have to make all records, attend courses, have to carry out controls over themselves. I think all of this is very unfair. It is therefore necessary to make a regulation and find a fair solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e5941	Mr Jannach, the idea of ‘bad lobbyist’ is not appropriate in this House. That's why I give you a call for order. Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e5973	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Bee protection is also yield protection for farmers. The yield of many fruits and vegetables, also of fodder plants for cattle, depends on pollination by bees. 80 percent of all crops and 90 percent of all fruit trees depend on pollination by bees. What a world without bees looks like can be observed in parts of China. An unbridled use of poisons has caused a dramatic bee death there. As a result, thousands of migrant workers have to pollinate trees and flowers individually with cotton sticks. That is why it is high time for us to protect our bees more and more. What we need is a comprehensive protection of bees. Therefore, the decision of the EU Commission must be implemented immediately. We also need to consider what additional measures are necessary to protect bees. A ban on neonicotinoids in agriculture, such as maize bees, does not in any way endanger agricultural production. Effective biological alternatives are allowed for all uses, available and have proved themselves best in practice. For some years now useful nematodes have been in use, these are small threadworms, in Germany, Italy, France and also in Austria. At the same time, these benefactors are being exported with the seed and parasite the dangerous corn root drill in such a way that it ends a little later. But you, Minister Berlakovich, have tried to ensure that this neurotoxicity is fully used in Austria, and you have negated all the studies that clearly show a connection between bees' deaths and neonicotinoids. Mr Minister, I think you have a lot to do. Come to the Subcommittee, present to the Committee an implementation concept that meets Austrian requirements and meets a successful economic conciliation by farmers and beekeepers! Mr Berlakovich, I would like to ask you: Take this matter seriously and become active! I thank our SPÖ Agriculture SpÖ Kurt Gässner for his tireless commitment to bee protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e6013	Mr Jakob Auergegen, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e6037	Mr. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I am very grateful for the fact that today the ORF is transferring this special meeting to the full, because the opposition has really succeeded in dispossessing the last farmers as voters. And that doesn't matter to me, I say quite openly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If some people here in this house felt pain due to the non-agricultural knowledge that some have preached from here, he would have to run through the house out loud, ladies and gentlemen! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] This special meeting – if you have already spent some time in politics, you know that – does not serve the matter. It's a pure campaign. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously this special meeting serves to distract from some political failures, and with the Greens it is obviously to strengthen the political success in Salzburg. Shame!, I can only say, because this will not help either bee or nature, and not the environment at all. If emotion counts more than the thing, so if this thing is played out in such a way that only more emotions and populism are important, then the whole thing is very worrying. Everyone in this house – and believe me, too, the rural families – understands concerns and fears when mothers, when consumers ask what they get on the table and what they actually eat. And, of course, they ask questions like: What is in honey, what is included in food? Does anyone in this house and in this country believe that the farmers don't ask themselves what they eat?- Oh, my God! Does anyone in this country believe that the farmers don't care what's inside their honey?- Oh, my God! Does that really believe anyone, ladies and gentlemen? Therefore, such a product is only used to the extent necessary for plant protection, which is necessary for the seeds. Ladies and gentlemen, in Germany – and this is remarkable – this has been banned for a number of years, but in 2012 bee death increased from 16 percent to 23 percent. Results from Germany, although these funds have been banned for years. What really scared me in this debate: Bees die, bee death is obviously not very conceptual here, so it is called “bee-killer” in order to increase it again, so to speak. You have to make some personal submissions to the Federal Minister once again. And there, I have to say, it's gonna be really worrying. Perhaps someone else will come out who will then titulate Mr. Federal Minister as a bee killer. I'd be ashamed of it, ladies and gentlemen. But if agro-political expertise is so “great” that you only have it from certain media – if you read newspapers, then you can see it – then you have to say: A bit of reason, a little sense of sense would have to be there – not everyone, right – and if only more sprayers and plant protection devices are shown in the context of abrasives, then you already wonder what's going on. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps have She once asked who was really affected. – In maize cultivation, it is possible to solve this problem most frequently, with the exception of the increase in maize seed. It is not for the large farmers, Mr Strache, because the large farmer with all his areas can keep the fruit sequence without further delay; that is no problem for him. But do you know who's meeting it? – The small farmers meet, for example, the one at the southern Styrian border. Ask Once again at the small farms! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Do you know who else's meeting? I have informed myself in Upper Austria of the largest product dealer in the country and of one of the largest warehouses in the country where the fermented corn seed is so to speak used. – Not in agriculture, no, in the countryside, in the Silomais farmland. Do you want to tell the little green farmers that this is no longer possible in the future? Secondly, Mr Pirklhuber, you are wearing a beautiful yellow t-shirt, remarkable, and we are currently looking forward to the beautiful yellow rape blossoms on the fields. I ask you: How can Raps continue to be grown and produced in the future? [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Certainly not with bee-damaging pesticides!]] – Certainly not with bee-damaging means, but fact is: If the seeds fall away from rape, we'll have a huge problem. Then you can maim these yellow-flowering fields to make this clear once! You will still experience it: The bee dying will remain, the sowing of the seed, the cultivation of rapes will no longer exist if you want it so. It will be the same as in egg production in Austria. We have banned cage farming, but you can read in the magazine “Real” that 120 million eggs from Argentina are imported from cage holding for dry egg production. But that doesn't matter, essentially, you have a quiet conscience, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You are responsible! Who prevents the label from happening there?]] It is always shown with your finger on the farmers and points out how many thousands of tons of sprays, pesticides or anything else are carried out. – I have here a nice response from earlier years, which shows how much has been done to the ÖBB. – Ladies and gentlemen! Ten years high to 531,000 liters or kilos! 531,000 litres or kilos were injected on the railways because, as is literally said here, weeding would have been too expensive. Or: Why don't you ask how much snail grain is being exported in private home gardens? If a farmer were to spend the same amount as in the private home gardens – that is, Mr Jannach is right – then that would be a few thousand kilos per hectare. That's where you need action, ladies and gentlemen. You can, as colleague Jannach rightly said, buy 100 liters of glyphosate as a private in every supermarket, you don't need a review, you don't need a record, you don't need anything. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But in the warehouse too!]] Farmers must have the certificate of expertise, farmers must have the plant protection equipment checked, farmers must keep records, ensure storage, and be truly environmentally conscious and careful to deal with it. – They make cheap populism, the bees in Austria are not helped!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e6132	Mr Pirklhuber has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e6180	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer has more than provoked me, but I do not let myself be provoked in this case, because the facts are quite clear: Here is a minister who has failed all the way down, who has made fun of Austria with its entire environmental policy line in Europe! [[towards the government bank]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[New condolences with the greens.]] He placed himself on the side of the industry, then still measured – today again – the genetic engineering turned as a threatening cue: If we don't act like that, evil genetic engineering will come. – That’s incredible what this Minister is doing, really incredible! Let us try to make the comparison with Germany. The Minister of Agriculture has abstained during the first vote. Why? – Germany’s argument was not because the Commission’s proposals go too far, but because they do not go far enough. Federal Minister Aigner has said that it is also about looking at the pruning agents in winter rice. The Commission has not done so. Germany has, however, managed to do so, and, of course, in the second vote in the Appeal Committee, Germany has voted in favour of the ban. It is therefore more than right to fail this Minister's confidence! Mr. Federal Minister Berlakovich, you have said the untruth again today, for the time being you will certainly pass on false information! I quote from the EFSA press release of January 2013, which clearly states that it has reached clear conclusions for all three active substances in cases where the risk assessment has been completed, together with scientific experts from the EU Member States. EFSA has said that only the use in crops that are uninteresting for honeybees is acceptable at all, but not in rape, not in maize and not in sunflowers. – That’s fact, we don’t need any more studies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Come to the interests of industry! It is not just about the agrofuels, not just about the emission certificates, but the story is really one that opens your eyes to how lobbyism is operated in this country! You can easily understand this when you look at these pages and lead to contemplation. [[Keeping some documents in height]] The chemical industry finances the “farmerszeitung”, the farmers’ association not only with ads, but already from the front page. Here is an issue of March 2013. [[Keeping the issue of a “farmer newspaper” in height]] On the first page, apart from the title “Farmers Zeitungung”, there is almost everything paid advertising on the BASF. You may not be able to see this at this distance, but on the second side is even in the heading “BASF”, the world’s largest chemical group. – This is the fact in March 2013. I pointed out several months and years ago that several hundred thousand euros came from the chemical industry – the same industry, which also co-financed studies to reverse the results of the studies. For example, the Austrian MELISSA study has pointed out that there is a clear link between neonicotinoids and bee dying. In one case, I am right to Mr Kopf – and we have never kept this secret – that: There are several causes for bee dying, not exclusively neonicotinoides, but it is undisputed – internationally, there are more than 50 studies available – that a connection can be established. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Any risk must be excluded! Who said that, Minister? – Your party president Spindelegger, he brought you to the Raeson, I hope, at least he tried to get you to the Raeson. Actually, it would have been right to dismiss you from office. You're retiring, you're more than retiring, you should take your hat! [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Every day you, Minister Berlakovich, are longer in this office is a day too much for Austria! Mr. Minister, you stand back – today again – and hide behind the secret of office, behind the data protection. – What are the Germans doing, what are the countries in which the chemical industry has its location and is really strong? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: I said all the numbers!]] - You said all the numbers. Our club wife Glavischnig gave you 3rd place. May send a letter to environmental information law and to mandatory information law so that you can provide us with information. To this day we have no answer from you! In contrast, the German Ministry provides information on the sale of plant protection products in the Federal Republic of Germany. Read the results of the news according to § 64 Pflanzenschutzgesetz for the year 2011, I would recommend it to you! It lists all active substances, including quantities, at least in rough categories, which have groups of more than 1 000 tonnes, which have between 250 and 1 000 tonnes, which have 100 and 250 tonnes. You will find information on active substances and what quantities are placed on the market in the country and which go into export. This is EU law, ladies and gentlemen, there is a clear package of plant protection products from the European Union. This Regulation on Pesticides has to be implemented since December 2012. I ask you here and now and ask you to give a clear answer: Did you report to the European Commission on the list of all active substances placed on the market in Austria by December 2012? Has You did this, Mr. Federal Minister? You have the opportunity to give a clear answer today. This European Regulation also makes it clear that these data are to be published on the Internet in particular. That's the next challenge. The publication of the data is a policy of the European Union. Every day they fail to announce these active substances is a day too much. That is why I feel it is scandalous, colleague Auer – where did he go now? – you have been delaying for months that all documents from the Subcommittee are finally summarised and published in a report. We will make every effort in the Committee on Agriculture – tomorrow will be the sample of nails – and make these requests, and you will also have to make a clear statement whether you are for a ban on neonicotinoids or not. A few figures on glyphosate: Almost 500 tons of neonicotinoid-containing plant protection products are freely available on the market, everyone can buy them. [[In the following series, the speaker shall raise the amount of plant protection products he carries.]] It contains 1.2 grams of thiamethoxam, enough to kill 7,000 bees. All these are means that can be bought in a building market in Austria today in a plant protection product market. They see how these dangerous resources are actually handled, how a responsible Environment Minister does nothing, but opens up to the chemical industry the possibility of marketing pesticides in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to make a motion for a resolution to assist beekeepers in Austria and also farmers in the transition. [[Quoted print version removed]] These are our proposals. We will make the sample of nails in the Committee on Agriculture tomorrow. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e6290	The motion for a resolution tabled is being debated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e6359	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e6380	Mr President. Mr. Chemie Minister! Estimated members on the government bank! Now is the time for a bit of materiality to come back into the debate. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] No matter how far the path you have to go, Minister, you have to take the first step! But you've refused this since you've been in office. This policy has failed. Just the fact that you brought your own party colleagues to the Council should really lead to rethinking. Very briefly, you have to mention what the other parties have done. The SPÖ – and this must not be forgotten, Mr Cap – has been a means of achieving this policy over the past two years. [[Abg. Grosz: contributors to the bee murder!]] You are contributors, you can sign that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Bee killer!]] No matter how you see it, but the subcommittee has only come about through my untiring, tireless commitment. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And today, Minister of State, we know exactly what is the reason for the death of bees. You have all the studies at hand, you know the statements of the most recognized university professors, but you still refuse. Mr. Chemie Minister! This is the wrong policy if you only represent chemical companies, but you don't care about the whole environment of farmers and consumers. That's the wrong way! The subject goes a lot further: Glyphosate, for example, from which we heard earlier, is spent on children's playgrounds, on golf courses, in the communities, in schools. But this minister only makes policy for the corporations. [[towards the government bank]] You are really more than a rescind, Mr. Federal Minister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Very briefly to the specialist: About these neonics, as they are called, I have – think back! – spoke only a month ago. The ÖVP, the SPÖ, all laughed about it, the bees didn't matter to you. Only because of the media pressure has this deflection taken place. The Minister says we only spend 10,000 kilograms a year. – One has to know that the neonicotinoids are DDT-derived products. In the best year, 1963, 100 000 kilograms of DDT were produced worldwide. The neonics are 7 000 times stronger than DDT. That, Mr Chemieminister, means we're bringing in Austria today – that's what you have to imagine! – the same amount of poison on our fields, on our food, as was produced by DDT in 1963! That's a scandal! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Pfui!]] Mr Chemist, you must know today's situation in China! Imagine: In China all apple plantations, all crops must be fertilized by hand. – You know that, Minister! We know that no flower that is not fertilized by a bee, by a hump, by a butterfly can ever bring fruit, and yet you act like that! Let's look at America! What's in California? In California today, all apple farms per hectare have to pay thousands of US dollars to come Canadian entrepreneurs with bee peoples who pollinate during flowering. Otherwise there would be no apple throughout America. – This Minister of Chemistry knows, but he doesn’t do anything! [[towards the government bank]] That, I think, is the wrong way. We know today that these neonics are the most dangerous nerve poisons that already destroy cells in the smallest quantities, not only among bees – this goes much further, as already mentioned – but also among the humps, the butterflies, the entire amphibians, the birds that eat the destroyed animals. And, Mr Federal Minister, you also know that these poisons on honey also come into the food cycle. Nevertheless, you continue to represent the companies! That's not necessarily laughing. I mean, if you have a backbone, Minister of State, today you should open the way for this policy to be finally changed. No one in the population wants to have DDT in a further developed form on the plate, no one, even the farmers don't want it! Let us be honest, since 2008 the BZÖ demands, I pray, that we rethink that we take note of the reality that we are not being bought by corporations and only make corporate policy, but that we restructure agriculture. I would ask you, Mr Minister, to go home and make a new agricultural policy, let us take a turn, a start! It's all sinking and lying about what you're saying! [[He-Rufe at ÖVP]] The farmers have thousands of old knowledge. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The corn root drill has been around for ages. As early as 2008, I told you what we need to do. - But no! In Germany, the authority has banned everything. Mr Minister, think back, I told you already in 2008, we are making an investigation, an immediate ban, we are showing the farmers the alternatives, because there is not only the result, that is simply not true! Every farmer, every farmer has so much pride and knows he can. Minister, this group policy must stop! If we advise the farmers when we tell them how this works with the thread worms, of course the argument will come, that will cost a bit more, but we will be a fine food shop! A healthy nature, a healthy culture can only be preserved by such measures. We're going to make a fine-shoe shop, Mr. Federal Minister. Let's make sure that the farmer's death ends and that Bauer's being will be possible again, as is happening in South Tyrol today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's it! New farmers need the land!]] They were the ones who frozen the bio-agricultural support three years ago. If we ban neonicotinoides, we can get them back up immediately. Federal Minister, the farmers need the bees! Think of the countless fruit farms! Without our bees, without our insects there is no fertilization! Nevertheless, you defend your arguments that have probably prescribed BASF against any knowledge, against any knowledge of the best university professors – Professor Dr. Pechlaner, Dr. Hoppichler, all told you – and do not continue! But let's go on: What's going on with these neonics? – These 10,000 kilos, which are spent and 7 000 times stronger than DDT – which must be broken down on the tongue – we spend on 1.4 million hectares of arable land. Do you know what that means? – Today we have so many neonics throughout Austria that we can kill 20 bees on every square centimeter. This, please, does not say the BZÖ or the Gerhard Huber, that says our most intelligent professors who have researched it – but you ignore all of this. The Federal Minister continues to make policy for the corporations. No one can vote. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Mr. Federal Minister, we have known this since 2003. Therefore: Please go home, make it She set the way for a new policy, for an agricultural turnaround, as the BZÖ has been calling for since 2008! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] One more thing, Minister of State: Today we cannot decide laws to make new applications, where we will take out the winter barley again, the whole winter resorts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] You have to imagine this: The Commission's proposal does not include all winter cereals. This means that it will continue to be spent on 360 000 hectares. – At least go there with today’s BZÖ proposal, and let’s see that we are making a policy that the Austrian who will vote for the farmer! [[Abg. Rädler: Austrian!]] But Berlakovich only represents Bayer, Bayer alone! You have to imagine this: Bayer, headquartered in Leverkusen, makes 1 billion € only with neonicotinoids. [[Call the BZÖ: Madness!]] This group is represented by this Federal Government, by this Minister of Chemistry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] That's, I think, the wrong way. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: submission!]] That's not an injunction, Mr. Minister. Be honest: You already know everything I've been saying to you since this committee was set up. But you're blocking everything, you're going to go on strings. You know that this poison – once released, a single application – remains in the ground for 20 years. Every follow-up fruit – no matter what you put after corn: Wheat, grass, Greenland – is also affected. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] That's the wrong way. Mr Minister, you are endangering our diet, you are endangering our environment, the population is not going to tolerate you anymore! Take the hat and finally go home!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e6602	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e6623	Mr President. High house! Mr. Federal Minister, the black thunderstorm clouds at the Alm demo with us in Salzburg, Fuschl, were already a very good sign of your resignation. In addition to inflammation for your party colleagues and former Commissioner Fischler, the disappointed alpine farmers remain nothing but empty promises. As Salzburg's agricultural chamber president Franz Eßl – he's sitting there in the back – tells us, there are interest subsidies for the loans. – Great, but – according to Pinzgau’s alpine farmer Anton Wallner in the Salzburg “Krone”: “Unfortunately, many farmers simply pay because they are so insecure. This is like a confession of guilt." Minister! We know that you have a veritable bee or general flight problem since 2010, since Paris. You are a cholerian large-scale builder, you are a consultant-resistant, although you have a huge consultant staff of about 400 people. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] 400 people have you around! You're retiring! [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] There are still some facts to be presented about your unexplained behaviour in the vote in Brussels on bee-death. Mr. Minister, your subsequent salto back in Neonics was just the task. We have heard today that the chemicals are also released by the ÖBB, the WESTbahn, the ASFINAG, the magistrates and also by private gardeners. An additional use of these chemicals has caused the wrong decision to promote biosprit and biogas. Klaus Woltron, a retired hobbyist, said about you in the "Krone" on Sunday: [[Call the ÖVP: He knows himself!]] “What he’s performing is highly indecent. He has probably thought of a supply job with an agricultural group at the whole theatre rather than the environment." [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I would also like to see a separation between the Ministry of the Environment and Agriculture, as our clubman Robert Lugar has already called for. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] This would certainly give more transparency and less competence, Minister, and clear responsibilities. For example, the AGES: Is she now a Minister of Health or a Minister of Agriculture? – Another unbearable construction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] We politicians want fair access, education and also reassurance – we have heard this today – to fair opportunities for agriculture and also for consumers, Mr. Colleague. We also want – just like the SPÖ – all pesticides to protect the bees are banned, because the bees are the alarm system of nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e6709	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e6730	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! Austria is certainly a pioneer in the field of agriculture in many sectors. We are Bioworld champions, we are direct marketers – really at the forefront. With the protection of rare animal breeds, we have protected and preserved many extinct breeds. And I think the small structure, this particular feature should be given to us as a market economy. When a few years ago the discussion of whether the pesticides that are neonicotinoids harmful to the bees have begun a danger to the bees, it was almost natural that a study was commissioned and decisions are made on the basis of this study. But that this study – and since, Mr. Head of Parliament, the lying discussion begins for me – is co-financed by the chemical factories and companies, that is something quite unimaginable for me! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, you have said proudly even today: Yes, it is, we got 115 000 €! – I would also like to co-finance the next AMA examiner who comes to me – that would really be my wish – and the next tax examiner who comes to me, I also want to finance it; I want to help the state save. Mr Minister, I hope you will also agree if I co-finance the AMA tests in advance. It will not affect the result, but it should be so. I think we went the wrong way. The indecisiveness with which you deal with this topic that you do not know whether you are on the side of the Nature, the bees or the industry and chemical factories have cost the farmers a lot of money – the conversion of the sawmills, the courses and the like. And then you suddenly had to give in to the pressure of the public and admit that we are on the wrong path. I think you should have said a lot earlier: Yes, the funds are harmful, we have to change! There would have been transitional periods, we would have had the opportunity to find new funds that are not bee-harmful, and we would have saved the farmers a lot of money. Minister! I think it's just this hesitation that cost us a lot of money. And that it also goes without neonicotinoids, without chemistry, shows us Germany. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, a second topic has long been a matter for us: the topic of almen. Even there it turns out that you don't know on which side you're going to hit. The Commission, which was set up under the former Commissioner for Agriculture Fischler, is, in my opinion, a mere eye-catching to delay the problem beyond the elections. The new system of feeding surface analysis works so – and it must be broken down on the tongue – that from Vienna from AMA employees across the computer, across the screen determine what is present in the Tyrolean, Salzburg and Carinthian pastures on feed surfaces – with the result that test results, which were detected last year by independent testers, were rejected by the gentlemen in front of the screens and suddenly came out quite different results that moss surfaces, moor surfaces have been declared feed surfaces that although green but do not offer pastures, have suddenly been declared feed surfaces. Mr Minister, if we had done so, if we had explained these areas, we would have to fight sanctions and take heavy fines. Minister, here too you show that you do not know on which side you are to beat. So far, I have always felt that the Minister is on the side of the farmers, even though we sometimes have different opinions. However, if someone can finance a study by the chemical companies – like you, Mr Minister – if someone does not act massively for the protection of old seeds – like you, Mr Minister – and if someone wants to make a mistake that has happened in the Ministry of Agriculture, on the back of the alpine farmers, he has not been on the side of the farmers for a long time, but on the side of the chemical companies and the Brussels lobbyists – and should not continue to be here for the farmers as ministers. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e6809	The Secretary-General of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe Lamberto Zannier is here to visit us. – I warmly welcome you! [[General condolences.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e6840	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to join Klubobmann's head so that his speech is not forgotten. He said that the bee was an important agricultural animal. – Of course, that’s a category, that’s undisputed. In fact, for many Austrians, bees are associated with a great symbolic force, which some previous speakers have already mentioned. But it's about more. The fact that plant poisons are used in Austria to kill the entire bee people has simply brought the barrel to ruin – not only in the political parties that, for example, our agricultural spokesman Kurt Gaßner, have been fighting against the use of pesticides and neonics for years, but people are simply no longer willing to accept the abuse of plant gifts in agriculture due to various production scandals, food scandals and increased sensitivity, for example with regard to the robbing of tropical forests. With this debate about the neonics and the bee dying in Austria, we have achieved a state of play where the population simply says: We don't want that anymore! And that's why the question is which side is on: On the side of those who care for the landscape, who are ready to grow biologically, who are willing to comply with decades or centuries-old rules of agricultural production – it has already fallen several times the keyword of monocultures – or are on the side of those who say: Growing up, squirting everything, producing as much as possible! without the farmer actually having a higher income without the consumer, who actually has a better product in his hand, and that under the conditions of rising food prices? Social democracy is clearly in its position: We are on the side of the ecological cycle, we are on the side of consumers, and we are on the side of those farmers who are ready to go the only right way in this so much praised eco-bio-pattern country of Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Just as we in industry do not want to compete with low-cost productions in Far East Asia, we do not want mass production in agriculture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] If my colleague's head then tries to justify everything, and threatens with the gene cell, then that kind of reminds me of the anti-CFC debate more than 30 years ago, if one has said: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] If there is no nuclear power station, everything will collapse and our standard of living will no longer be secured. [[Abg. Kickl: You've taken over this with the euro now!]] We have the same thing over and over again in every agricultural discussion. I come from this generation, which has already fought massively against the nuclear power stations. [[Abg. Rädler: Mr. Wenninger!]] [[Abg. Tamandl: That was the Kreisky already!]] On behalf of Mr Rädler: We have here adopted the Nuclear Locking Act, on the initiative of Social Democracy, and we are from then until today those who stand for consistent anti-CFC policies – not only in Austria but in Europe and worldwide. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Rädler, further calls to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Kreikky!]] Mr. Rädler, before you get too excited: It is the attempt to defend something that has long been overcome by social policy. [[Abg. Wheeler: Social Justice! Community construction!]] And agriculture is not an individual case with the ÖVP. Today, Minister Berlakovich has more or less to sit on the dock, but it's the same in family policy, it's the same in education policy, it's the same in women's policy. [[Abg. Grosz: Why are you with them in a coalition?]] The ÖVP is trying to defend social patterns that have long been overcome. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] That is why I am very glad that the negotiations continue, that there is also the possibility of finding agreement today, in cooperation with three opposition parties, for what people really want. People want an agriculture that is natural, produces healthy and sustainable food and ensures the eco-cycle in Austria. An example I would like to mention, because this has always been pushed towards the small farmers: I would remind you of the debate on agrofuels around E10. It was a long and persistent resistance of the ÖVP, with only the rethinking of the EU Commission made it possible for us in Austria to give up on this insanity. I would also like to thank my group very much for this, because, together with the Greens and Parts of the Liberals, we were the ones who have successfully addressed this agricultural misdevelopment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek]] Finally, because the official secret is repeatedly addressed: The Minister said in the Environment Committee that he had never hidden behind the secret of office. The fact is that State Secretary Ostermayer prepared a legislative text already weeks ago and sent to the coalition partner that there is an internal working group to solve this problem. If it goes after the SPÖ, this law can still be amended in this legislative period to ensure that all public information is actually available to citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e6990	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e7026	Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in the House! [[Abg. Grosz: The godfather of all bee murderers!]] Since 2006, the number of beekeepers has increased in Austria and the number of bee people has increased by 60,000 – on the question of how beekeepers and bees are going. And this is the case because our Minister of Life implements a proper bee programme and helps the beekeeper to explore and improve the causes of their problems. Since 2006, the number of bee populations has increased by 60,000. Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to the training of beekeepers and the well-being of bees, our Minister of Life Niki Berlakovich takes care of. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] As far as bees are concerned, Mr Stöger would be responsible, for he is the one responsible for animal husbandry, animal health, the authorisation of medicines, the appropriate veterinary conditions. [[Ah Rufe]] [[Call BZÖ:Bienenminister!]] [[Abg. May. Korun: You don't believe what you're saying!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] No one has seen anything of that so far, and that's why he probably didn't come today. His excuse why he wants nothing to do with the bees – my God, you can ask him closer; you know him better, I don't know him so well – the official information has always been: No bee damage has been reported, so there is no need for action! – So, these are the facts: One does something, the other does. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: is not responsible at all!]] A wonderful political show has been built on it, people are being scared – for their lives, for bees, for our habitats – that is a “state”! In addition to the facts and the show, there is a real life: agriculture, the farmers who have to secure the crops, under the conditions we just have – residue-free, absolutely reliable. No matter how the weather is, the table must always be fully covered, no question at all. Our food companies want raw materials so that hundreds of thousands of jobs and valuable Austrian food can also be put on the table – and that at prices that the Chamber of Labour is still too high, too expensive, too expensive, too expensive. Mr Weninger, I ask you to invite the Chamber of Labour to a seminar and explain to her what valuable food can cost! Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Just now we are experiencing how difficult it is to produce a harvest. I come from a region where there may be a little more organic farmers than in the agricultural area. They also try to grow sugar beet; Bio-sugar is in demand. Hundreds of hectares have been eaten by the beet herd these days! The organic farmers cannot help themselves, it is not fermented. The beetle becomes thick and fat, and when it has eaten the field, it flies to the neighbors. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... also black!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] We really have a veritable problem right now. Is there anything you can do about it? Would that be possible? Or are you going to take off the beetles? Who's volunteering? – There will be a little too many bugs. That is why you will be allowed to do something! Just as we will have to use the protective equipment of the last generation so that there is a harvest. I am opposed to the fact that farmers who work properly in the framework of the laws, within the framework of the knowledge of this world, and who strive to bring together a high quality harvest, are put down as bee murderers, are put on as poisons and are put to stand as profit-loving farmers, as Mr. Lugar has made. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: The farmers yes, but not her...!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Farmers strive, but politicians...!]] I'm against it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If Mr Stronach puts the rod in the window to the farmers – we have been there for a long time, and we have “nothing”, if he who knows how to earn money in America or Canada explains to us what we can do. [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are facing a difficult time. A lot of things will change with us. If we don't use the two years to find new opportunities and to check if what this hype has done now has really been done if these active substances are really lost in the long run, then we no longer have seed production in Austria. What we have today will not be there in the long run. Saatmais we have in Austria because the whole world knows that Austria is free of genetic engineering and that it produces high purity. Over 8,000 hectares bring 500 000 units, nearly two thirds of them going abroad. They produce non-genotechnic maize, because it is then processed again in Austria. If we can't do that anymore, no more non-genocidal maize will come back, and then there will be some change. Then we will get problems in the coexistence of organic and Conventional, first at the border areas where pollen comes from outside. Later we will see how things develop. But we're not going to be an island if the raw materials are all around different if they're not what we've been used to so far. Ladies and gentlemen! We are facing the end of genetic engineering! If you were to take 5 minutes and let it explain to you, you would be afraid of what you have done. We stand one step ahead, and these barriers must not break! That's why: I want these active substances to be used or returned in certain areas with an eye and mind, because we simply need them and have nothing better. It is negligent and without responsibility to say from one day to another: Let's do it, because none of you can give an answer to what we have as an alternative! Well, we don't grow rape anymore, then stop the oil from Canada, that's not a problem. If we don't build seed, we'll give up on it. Organic farmers grow seeds, where you can see how things are going. Between 20 and 30 percent of the propagation areas do not come to the field recognition, because the corn root drill is a pest that benefits us from climate change. No one can discuss it away! We can decide here on successful papers and paragraphs, which doesn't interest him, he can't read and no one can punish, he's just there. That's why we're going to have to do something about it. The point with the fruit sequence: Unfortunately, this is not the solution in the case of seed reproduction, because we – we know it from the organic farmers – have too high losses. And all of this. This is happening in the Styria, which says that in the South Styria one has to make a fruity sequence: There the fields are so small that you can make a hundred times more fruity – the beetle comes from the neighbor, because it flukes over the 50 meters that it would be a distance. The problem is not a problem for large structures with comma fields, but the problem is a big problem where the fields are small and the beetle comes from the neighbor. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Fear of death has also died!]] That's why: Please, let reality apply! You all have a bad feeling with each other. I mean, it's kind of a grotesque situation today with black and yellow, with Kasperl Theatre and Bees, but there's a reality behind that! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But the organic farmers should have gone then!]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: They'd all be gone already!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: And thanks for the information...!]] A reality that you have on the plate every day, a reality for which people complain, for which you have to say thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... as environmental speaker of the ÖVP, as an industrial speaker!]] I would like to thank our Minister very much for pointing out on the subject in Europe that we must first examine alternatives before we ban something entirely. Politics with attention and house mind, that must be our direction, and not slanting ban! Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... eyes open!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e7266	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e7288	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schultes has called for a policy with an eye and a policy with a house mind. What he does, however, is a policy with a moderate sense of the house! That's my impression. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Berlakovich, we are going to distrust you today for three reasons. In the first question, “Bees or Poison?, ” you have opted for poison. In the second question, “Citizens or Lobbies?”, you have chosen lobbys. And in the third question, “Transparency or Mystery?, ” you have opted for mystery. I mean, it's all scandalous, you could be upset for a few minutes, but for the last point: under explicit breach of justice! Under explicit breach of justice, because you should have discussed the number of pesticides. They have called on official secrecy. [[Abg. Head: Like Mrs Vassilakou in Vienna!]] The secret of office is already a fundamental problem, but in the particular case the failure to answer is just too absurd because of official secrecy! That is not what I am saying, but that is what the justice officer of the ÖVP says, Mr Ikrath! He's been whiting: The appeal to official secrecy regarding pesticides is absurd. – I also know why he has weathered this: He is one of the few in the ÖVP who know the legal situation. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Grosz.]] He knows that the Environmental Information Act can only call on official secrecy when it comes to business or business secrecy. Today you have given the answer. You said there were 10 tons of neonicotinoids in the fields. I wonder, 10 tons of neonicotinoides, where is there a business or business secret injured? You have refused the answer under explicit breach of law! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] I'm telling you why you refused. For a relatively simple reason: You have known if you do not answer this question, then you will gain a lot of time. Because you know exactly that it takes months for you to be forced to reply. Just this time you wanted to win because you knew or hoped that the debate would continue. That's unacceptable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I say to you: The fact that you are here today is quite positive, because you are a living memorial to the fact that the official secret in this Republic has to be abolished! The secret of office serves exclusively to allow politicians like Berlakovich to hide, hiding from the citizens. The official secret is ultimately used – not in your case, in your case it is simply insolent because you did not want to provide any information because you were in the service of lobbys – it usually serves exclusively to cover corruption and tax waste. This is not my private opinion, but the opinion of the Group of States against corruption in the Council of Europe. It has clearly stated: Official secrecy makes it difficult for citizens and the media to exercise control of the administration, which would contribute to preventing corruption. It recommends easier access to information and precise criteria and legal protection where information can be refused. That's what it's all about. That is why we are proposing today: [[Quoted print version removed]] We want that to be the radical reverse of the secret of office! They have proved that this is very necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e7372	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e7464	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e7485	Mr President. High house! People don't want any poison in the fields – that's what every little child knows – because ultimately all the poison in the fields comes back to humans at some point: if you eat honey when you eat food, grain, bread. That's quite clear. This is called sustainability, Minister of Agriculture. I ask you: What bee, what agricultural wasp or chemical wasp did you stutter when you voted against the bee poison ban outside of Brussels? Which bee was that? You can only recommend the bees: Bees, bees, do fast, sum up, because this Minister of Agriculture is killing you! Mr. Minister, we've known that for years. There are dozens of studies confirming that by the EFSA, the European Agency, by the Federal Environment Agency in Austria, of the AGES. There are corresponding studies. Even the study you have co-financed from chemical companies confirms the toxicity of these so-called neonicotinoides, which have a negative impact on humans accordingly. Mr Huber has already carried it out: At the time, 2010, he was the first here in Parliament to demand a ban on this poison. We from the BZÖ were the first – but this is not supposed to mean anything now – who have also asked relevant questions. So you've had three or four years and you need to hear from your coalition partner today that you haven't done anything. Yes, where was the SPÖ at that time? Where were you, Mr. Minister, at this time? – You've always comforted us. That is why I think that we must finally take action here and decide on this ban! We invite you to do the same. A corresponding request will also be made by us today. But I don't quite understand the greens, even if we're one. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you make a coalition in Tyrol with the ÖVP, sit there with the ÖVP in bed. They are expected to make a coalition with this ÖVP, the Bienenmörder-ÖVP, in Salzburg. And you've been doing a coalition for years – wherever you don't keep going – in Upper Austria with this ÖVP. But you stand out here and make mobile against this ÖVP. - Well, what now? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You already have to know: Whoever chooses green has this ÖVP in bed. & Reverse: Whoever chooses ÖVP has the greens in bed. But you seem to be the feeder to power and the trail to power much more important than the policy of matters in this country in order to carry something forward. Mr Minister, you are really not only an environmentalist, but also an agricultural minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] I am thinking of the failure in nuclear policy. I am thinking of the failure of the biodiesel – we have discussed this for a longer time – in pig farming, where you have only become active at the pressure of the animal protectionists and also of the People's Procuratorate to protect the little animals. I am thinking of the controversial ads from your department: almost 30 million in six years, where almost always your counterfee was on them. That is why we are asking ourselves about the added value of environmental policy. I think of the 4 million homepage that could have been cheaper by 90 percent. I think – and now it comes – of agricultural policy. Where, then, are the damaged mountain farmers in the areas that are now even threatened with the repayment of subsidies? - You've let them down, too. They have abandoned the farmers on the agricultural diesel. They have also abandoned the farmers by the driver's license: Now every farmer has to drive the driver's license to the field when he's leaving the farm. You did all that to the farmer. They have also abandoned the farmers when it came to preparing them in good time for the This environmental poison will have to come from the fields. You've known that for years. There too you have abandoned the farmers. There we are at the bee scandal, at the bee affair. They refuse to implement the ban in good time. They are referring to an official secret that cannot be grasped at all in this case, because the Environmental Information Act here provides something completely different. That is why, and we will request this, we want to have a ban on this bee poison, even for winter rice, because there are appropriate alternatives. However, we want farmers to be prepared in good time through appropriate information and support measures. We want a real farmer's liberation. A farmer's exemption from the control of these ÖVPs, which in turn is under the control of agricultural and chemical groups. This is the farmers' liberation that this country needs. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We need a reform of the Environmental Information Act, so that citizens and information are again at the centre, not the official secret of speculators, banks, profit makers. We finally want to separate the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. Mr Minister, we are on top of the cover “Environmental Ministry”, but there are actually lobbyists and friends of the agricultural and chemical groups inside. You have repeatedly proved this by your advertising campaigns, including in the Federal Farmers' Newspaper. Therefore, Minister: Step back! We really don't need bee killers on the government bench.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e7576	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e7598	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Even the Maya bee turns its back on the Minister. [[The speaker places a yellow fabric animal in the corresponding position on the speaker's desk.]] She has every reason to do so, because he has very many of her colleagues from the hard-working bees on the conscience. Mr. Spindelegger said yes: In doubt for the bees! Now we have a long known problem of bee dying, and the government has not acted properly to this day. Instead, she has in no doubt for a long time let go of what many diligent workers' bees have cost their lives. So the government has not acted. Instead, how it acts shows a newspaper article: A “bitter-sweet money offer” has been made the beekeeper to buy their silence. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is the last thing to allow and make such a lying policy in this country. This government is making such a lying policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] But let me come to another subject, namely dirty politics, because we also need to talk about it: dirty green policy. Ladies and gentlemen, on current occasion I would like to announce this today in front of the television screens. You must have read this headline today: Criticism of local group leaders at Team Stronach. Here a historian, Werner Bundschuh of the Johann-August-Malin-Gesellschaft, shows up in a terrible way that one wants to order local group leaders, i.e. someone who heads a local group, a political local group of the Stronach team. But if you know that the green Mr. Walser – now he's blacked out because he knows exactly what's going on – is a founding member of this August-Malin society – has founded it – Karlheinz, you can't choose the relationship, you're sorry enough, I know that – then you know where the wind is blowing. [[in the direction of the Abg. Header]] When this is where the Nazi club is going, ladies and gentlemen: With this we have nothing to do with God! I can tell you, my ancestors, my grandfather was persecuted by the Nazis because he was faithful to Austria. He was then also the first mayor in my home town of Hörbranz under French occupation. They certainly didn't choose a Nazi. You can believe me. So my grandfather was often dragged away, my father didn't know if he was coming back. If a Mr. Walser goes here and shakes me with dirt, really filled with dirt with such a clear statement, then I can tell Mr. Walser: He's supposed to step back! Then he has time to research with his August-Malin society and to shake others, because this man is no longer portable in this Parliament! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now let's go on, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can get to the bottom of the whole story a little bit. I have something here about the Austrian Alpine Association, section Oberpinzgau. [[The speaker shall keep several documents up to date during the following statements.]] There's a function: Local and youth leaders. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr President! On the matter!]] The German Red Cross: Manfred Anders new local group leader. Mr. Walser will have a lot to do. The choice of the waterguard Tirschenreuth, Bavarian Red Cross: Local group management. Then we have a Rotkreuz village group leader in Güttenbach, with photo. There are in the ÖVP the District and Local Assembly of the ÖVP Women and, and,. Then we'll get on with it. The Greens have elected local party leaders. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Walser can clean up himself a little. He's got every reason to do that, 'cause he's got a little different at home. His grandparents were not dragged away by the Nazis, on the contrary, they were on the other side. This has already been announced by Mr Stadler here. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Now let's go even further. Placing the Jusos: How easy it is to be Juso. It says in it: SPD local group management. That's where you turned so you can become Juso. Ladies and gentlemen! I could continue this infinitely – what I don't want. But now we're going further. [[Calls to the Greens.]] If Mr. Walser wants to have something to do with his Johann August-Malin society, then he should abolish the church tax, because the church tax comes from Hitler. ==References== May-Feierttag was also created under this regime, where the reds stand above and wade with red cloths. Then let's go further: The Mother's Day, which we had recently, is also an invention from that time. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you're distributing, you've got to do a proper research first and get the facts together properly. As a historian who insults Mr. Walser here, that is so embarrassing to me! I am really committed to perhaps even making plagiarisms about whether he has really gotten this doctoral title right in history; for someone who is so uninformed and makes such false claims belongs away from this house. [[Calls to the Greens.]] This man should step back! He's ashamed! You really have to know this here, ladies and gentlemen: This is the honest policy of the Greens with which the ÖVP lays itself in bed. Ladies and gentlemen, if you put yourself in bed with the greens, if you put yourself in bed with dogs, you must not be surprised when you wake up with fleas! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e7695	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e7717	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Let's get to the topic of bees. We've heard it today: It is not just about bees alone and their economic performance – €20 billion in power in Europe, €150 billion worldwide, as we have heard today – that is not the only problem. It's not about the neonics alone either. It is not just the farmers who are also at risk. It always comes to the rider and not to the horse. Farmers are the horse. But who is the rider who has seduced the farmers for years, so that they get into this one-way alley at all? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, the dose makes the poison. This certainly meant a different kind of paracelsus. If you have listened to Mr Schultes today, you can see very clearly: Whoever doesn't go with time goes with time. Either we go as human beings because we are poisoned, or – you can calculate this for the next elections. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the South Styrian, all the beekeepers shout how poor they are and that it is best to give up the poison. But in the South Styria we have just as much these corn monocultures. Yeah, there's the corn, this root drill that's excellent. Then the question arises: Can you grow there? What about the groundwater? Today you have to grow more and more fields, So that you can feed better pigs at lowest prices? This does not benefit farmers, it does not benefit consumers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am not saying anything about the cross-financing of EIA-near things today. I'm not saying anything about the homepage. But I'm already talking about hearing today – it's also stated in the “profile” – that €115 000 went to chemical multis. But that's a great story! What the result will then look like is already apparent. I just need to look at the “press” Schultes, Gaßner, everywhere you can read: for the last two years. [[The speaker holds up papers with different headlines]] - Nothing will change. The result is already clear. Nor am I saying that this is food and food, and that today three companies are controlling all foods. I'm not saying anything about the fact that today's bitten estate lasts for one to three years and 20 years unbittened – according to an information from the Chamber of Agriculture. I am not saying that we are going to fail as we were in the plant protection regulation. We have also agreed to allow the little ones who really pull their plants to the leg. I can only say one thing: We're not saying anything about the food additives of packaging, but I'm finally quoting Henry Kissinger, who has just said: Control the oil and you control states, control the food, and you control the population. – Please, if that is the case, Minister for Agriculture: Navigation, please turn! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e7792	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e7824	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I was very excited at the moment when Mr Schultes actually gave a lot of untruths the best. One thing I would like to say straight and clear: The Minister of Health has nothing to do with the ban on neonicotinoids. He can't do that. I asked Mr Schultes twice to tell me where that would be. But no, he's standing back and he says the Minister of Health is to blame. I don't think that's clean. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have one question to the Greens, specifically to you, Mr Pirklhuber: You say tomorrow the nail sample is on. That probably means tomorrow you'll ask us if we're against the neonics or for that. Is that right? - That's right. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Exactly!]] Now I have a resolution of the Upper Austrian countryside. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] There are two of them, one of the SPÖ and one of black, green, blue. In the proposal for an initiative by Black, Green and Blue, I read that MEPs are asked to take any risk to bee and plant health seriously – no na, no na – and I continue to read: participate in the two-year European moratorium and prohibit the use of neonicotinoids for the bite of rape, sunflower and maize. - Quote. So what now? Do we want to ban it in general or not? – I still stand by the fact that this has failed, and I will fight for it as long as it goes, but you obviously do not know what you want! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] That's where you want a total ban. In Upper Austria, yes, you are in a coalition with the ÖVP – apropos Coalition – is already clear – and there is a soft request there. The SPÖ has said quite clearly in its proposal: Prohibition of neo-notinoids in Upper Austria! You said: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The opposition has blamed the Federal Minister in very wild speeches, speeches here, and said that she will express his distrust. I ask you: If you think the Minister made so many mistakes, why do you want him out of office now? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: To make a better one!]] If that's true, he's supposed to fix these mistakes. He's got five months left. [[Abg. Grosz: Please go, that's cockbuck!]] That's not cockbled. I call on the Minister to correct these mistakes. [[Abg. Petzner: Something better didn't happen to him?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Grosz: You fell down like a broom handle!]] I urge him to withdraw his rejection of the ban in Europe. He's done this part of it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The dead bees will not come back to life!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Millions of dead bees complain!]] There is still a lot of work to be done, which has already been said today. But I'd rather the Minister open this up than say he should go. - Who does it then? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this idea is not so good! Mr Federal Minister, we still have a lot of work in front of us in committee. I do not understand why the Greens no longer want the Subcommittee, the continuation of the Subcommittee. The subcommittee is not a pastime. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: clear commitment to a report!]] Mr Pirklhuber, the Subcommittee is concerned that we come to an end and come to a proper request. We want to bring this to an ordinary end in the Subcommittee with the Minister – Mr Federal Minister, I cordially invite you to do so – and try to ban this poison for bees there together. I can't imagine that this is gonna be a coalitional question or something. Every person out on the street tells me: Stop the poison! – We all know that the DDT was not as toxic as it is now the neonics. Mr Federal Minister, you say you proposed a programme with children at your bee summit. Do you know what the best program for the children is? – The prohibition of the poison, point out! That's all we need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you tell us at the bee summit that you want to make an education program for the beekeepers – thank you for the hint – so that they can better deal with Varroa, then I must say that at the beekeepers I now had to do with this topic in the work, I never felt that they don't know what it is about. People know that very well. I have to tell you: The beekeepers are not as stupid as you want to sell them and do not need training. Mr. Federal Minister, the beekeepers are very, very good people, very responsible people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Before my speaking time is over, I shall therefore put forward a motion for a resolution – ladies and gentlemen, listen carefully! –: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). This is a four-party request – it is distributed – that we conclude this issue with the Minister of State in the Subcommittee, that we discuss with the Minister of State in the Subcommittee the European Regulation, that we consider in this subcommittee what we need to change for Austria, what is too little, too much or something for Austria, and that we then make a joint request to finally get rid of this poison. And it's a poison, so Mr Schultes can stand here for a long time and claim otherwise. It can't be that we have to keep agriculture poisoned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] It can't be! What about the organic farmers who do not use poison? Are they all dead? - No, they're getting more and more. They are becoming more and more because there is thanks to God enough good farmers who confess to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: And enough good consumers!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've been told there's a world agrarian report. I haven't read him yet, but there's him. For this report, 400 scientists have researched on behalf of the UN and they have found – I quote not literally now, but in the transferred sense – that not chemistry, but ecological agriculture will save us. If the 400 scientists are exploring the world, it must be possible for us to live without this poison.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8031	The motion for a resolution set out in its principles has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8132	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Windy. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8153	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Once again, because agriculture is always assumed that we have nothing to do with the bees: Of course, bees are an essential part of this ecosystem and of Austrian and domestic agriculture. The pollination performance of one third of all foods resulting from them is indispensable, as is the beekeeper's performance. The media hype that has been created in the last few weeks and months was not to be surpassed. The price for this was that the debate on the subject has completely gone down and that the media are already rowing back a bit. Here I can quote Mrs. Editor Salomon from the “Kurier”, who writes in her editorial “The Business With Hysteria” about the Eco-Lobbys: “The hysterization industry has firmly under control of the Western world – and even more the Austrians.” And then we're going to go on: “But in the meantime one has the impression that the campaigns () are often purely self-evident, after all, this increases both the awareness and the donations of the ‘green’ lobbys.” [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The attempt to pay silence money to the beekeepers was unfortunately unsuccessful!]] This has not been written by the “evil” farmers’ association, but by an independent journalist. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: Have you read today’s “Kurier ”?]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Selective perception!]] In this debate, we have to say that everything possible has been hidden from hard facts, such as bee dying, which is still taking place in many countries where the neonics have long been banned – in Germany, in Denmark, in Scandinavia, in Scotland, also in the alpine regions of Western Austria – as well as in regions where no maize can be grown far and wide for climatic reasons. Everyone admits that the causes are multifactory. The topic of economic damage: If Mr Lugar is told here that it is about maximizing profits, I must say: For the 3,500 small farmers in the Styria it is about existence, please nice! This is a league other than the profit maximization. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These small farmers have a total area of only 20 hectares, they may have invested a few hundred thousand euros in a pig stable, so that the meat remains affordable for us in Austria. It's about existence. If they can no longer produce their maize, they will ultimately not be able to obtain their income – with only 20 hectares of farm space. I don't think that's an enemy image. What about the €32 million that are lost in seed production, in the increase in the southern Burgenland, where everyone is happy that GMO-free seed can be exported? Last but not least, because time is getting short: I am afraid one must be careful that this present decision or the subsequent ban of the Neons will not be a pyrrhous victory, which will actually not help bees at all. Secondly, the structural change which accelerates farmers' death accordingly: We therefore have additional costs, we have lower yields and the great solution of the thread worms, which is ridiculous! This causes cost of 150 € in addition per hectare of maize, which means almost one tonne of maize that needs to grow more in the future so that the farmer can write a zeroer. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] - I'll be right there. Final question: How much naïveness can a society allow itself not to understand agrarian politics that it is not possible to pay only more than 12 percent of its income for food, but at the same time to live in culinary abundance, but then to demand stronger standards here in this House and then to allow the imports back with eye-brows?
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8238	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8260	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! At the beginning, I would just like to show how familiar Klubobmann is head with this problem and with agriculture. Mr. Klubobmann's head – Klubobmann's head is not here now – you call the bees agricultural animals. A farm animal is the bovine or the pig, in no case the bee. The bee is a useful and indispensable animal for agriculture. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Berlakovich, Minister Stöger now to send to the Black Peter for this bee death, is at all a joke, because the bee is not in any way covered by the animal husbandry regulation. Now only the lack of the ÖVP requires the veterinarians to take over the pollination of the plants. Mr Berlakovich, with your vote on the prohibition of neo-notinoids, you have once again demonstrated your incompetence as Minister for the Environment and Agriculture. The list of your errors is very long. It begins with the unfair distribution of compensation payments, and the failure in the Almencausa, which many farmers bring to the edge of the ruin, also results in the poor climate balance and the rejection of the ban on neonicotinoides. The neonicotinoides are certainly not alone in the bee-death. The bees have to fight with many great dangers – too long winters that make them starve, cold collapses and the Varroamilbes decimate bees – but this is precisely why we need to do everything we can to avoid further decimation. This includes the prohibition of neonicotinoides. This is demonstrated by many studies, such as the European Parliament study of December 2012. Every bee that dies from our negligence, ladies and gentlemen, is a bee too much. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Three years ago, in a request, we called for the ban on neonicotinoides and were called by all parties, including the opposition parties. I would therefore like to repeat a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister! Protect the bees and the people from the danger of Berlakovich and step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8352	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8443	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8475	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated representatives on the government bank! What we discussed here at the beginning of the year is as follows: Austria will join the proposal or the European Commission's ban. It is expected that this ban will be presented by the European Commission in the next few weeks. This Regulation should then be implemented. But much more important then is the fact that we are setting up these programmes, which were called by the many previous speakers. This is once the program for the beekeeper. Mr Gaßner, it is not that the beekeepers would not be well trained. They are right, but it is precisely from the beekeeper's side that they also want to use these training measures because it is about ensuring bee health, especially in the fight against Varroa, and giving them the necessary armor for the other challenges. At the bee summit, it was also noted by the beekeepers that it is very good that Austria is in the top of Europe in the fight against Varroa. You can't let it down. You have to keep up with it so that you can also take these successes home, because that is one of the great challenges next to many others. In addition, we will continue to expand this bee programme. We support the purchase of investments for new forms of attitude, including technical facilities for beekeepers. This is important for them to be able to keep up, and that will be It is also used. We want beekeepers, and also very small beekeepers, which are technically well equipped or are up-to-date with the technology. That is why we are not going to make cuts here, but, on the contrary, we want to expand this programme. An additional programme, namely a bee health programme, was also agreed at the bee summit, which was even introduced at the explicit request of the beekeepers. We would also have had several other considerations, but those, the beekeepers have said, do not need them. A bee health programme is a basic prerequisite for ensuring safety in the future. Bio-bee promotion is also important. It has been mentioned several times that farmers or beekeepers need support when changing to organic. This should be ensured in order to meet the growing need of consumers. It is also important – this has already been mentioned here – that farmers receive support. The small farmers, but also the other farmers with seed production, are not to be left in the rain. They need special advice. It is true, as has already been said, that they have invested in new equipment, for example in the South Styria market, so as not to lead to a dust development in the by-products. There is a need to develop new procedures so that farmers can change. This will not be easy, but we are ready to do so because we are very likely to be concerned with the small farmers. Look at the size comparisons in Europe! Austria has one of the small-structured agriculture. We have a cultural change everywhere, but we are working on programs such as the environment programme, organic programme, enjoyment regions, direct marketing, holidays at the farm, that the small farmers stand against the pressure of the market. This is what we want to do in the new common agricultural policy, which is now being discussed. It is also a question of supporting this common agricultural policy, which is environmentally oriented. In conclusion: The program to bring children to farms is one that is already running. We want to support this, because I want to have a society in which not every child should become a farmer or a farmer, but should have an understanding of ecological cycles and also develop a love for how food is produced, how animals are kept. We're going to go through these programs. We agreed at the bee summit. However, it is also a general rule of agricultural policy that producing agriculture has an ecological responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8530	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8552	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister for Agriculture! Mr Sozialminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen at home! In my speech, I would like to send four different messages to you. The first goes to the overall ÖVP. I think it is quite unbearable for you to treat yourself with the farmers in Austria. Many farmers make a very positive contribution to the development in our country – unlike you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] If we criticize you and the policy of the ÖVP, that does not mean that we criticize the farmers, on the contrary! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My second message goes to the SPÖ. If this is always said: We are waiting for the decision of the European Commission, that will come anyway, and we have a subcommittee anyway, we can discuss it further!, then I say: Of course we can continue to discuss, but we still have to decide! But you're pretending we don't have to make decisions here ourselves. We can make decisions regardless of the EU, a national ban here in this House. It is our job to take decisions at national level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] You will have the opportunity tomorrow to take on your job and make it clear to the Austrians who is in Austria for bee protection and who is against it. Our request for a national ban on neonicotinoides, which has been in Parliament for a year, will be put to the vote tomorrow. Tomorrow will be the Day of Truth! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My third message is to you, Minister of Agriculture. They are now saying that Austria will join the EU decision. We can't join again. That's a good thing. We have an EU regulation to implement. That's it. They have been positioning otherwise at EU level. From my point of view, that you're retiring is not just showing up at the death of bee. It's not the first mistrust against you on our part. Unfortunately, they have also demonstrated this in very, very many other environmental issues: Climate protection, multi-way quotas, air quality in Austria. They are simply not an environmental minister and, as it turns out now, not a particularly good agriculture minister. That's why we call on you to resign. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Her behavior now in bee dying was only the summit of all these inactivitys. We don't have to look that far, up to China or to California. Mr Minister, you are also from Burgenland, and as a South Burger, I invite you to look even a little south and talk to the people there. They will experience the great outrage of many people there, not only among the beekeepers, because the bee dying is unfortunately very strong in the South of Burgenland. As I said, your resignation is more than excessive. However, I would ask you to take a last step, namely to withdraw the construction permit at the Black Sulm. We'll have the excavators up there tomorrow. If You just want to touch some fingers on environmental protection, then you'll pick up this building decision today. My fourth message goes to the government as a whole. Obviously, you are not able to see how this is now dramatically directed at us when we die bee, but also on many other issues, to recognize and solve environmental problems. Since I've been here in this house, I have finished each of my speeches with the following sentence. I am pleased that this is already somewhere else in the meantime, but this government is completely misplaced as far as environmental protection is concerned. Yes; it has never been as clear as it is today: Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8639	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Mr Klubobmann Strache spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8671	I have a brief speech on the Rules of Procedure, because it is already interesting to point out the rigour. A motion of censure was filed today. We have tabled a request for a secret vote. The ÖVP as the government party has now submitted a request for a roll-call vote. So it must be a real fear that, in such a matter in secret voting, the coalition partner might even break out. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] This rigour must be shown, and above all the fear which appears to be borne here by the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8708	Mr Klubobmann, you know that this has not been a point of order, but you also know the use of this House. We shall now proceed to the votes. I can now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Neubauer, colleagues and colleagues on the separation of the areas of implementation of "agriculture" and "environment" in the Federal Ministry Act. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That is why we are doing so. The ballots to be used are in the pults, bear the names of the Members and the name "Yes" on the grey polls and "No" on the pink ones. I'm asking you to make sure that you just throw a vote. Only those official polls can be used. I am now asking those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Neubauer, Mr Neubauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who voted against. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin with the name call; Mr. Anna Franz will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8779	The vote will end. I call on the officials of the House to carry out the voting. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8819	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 161; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 63, No votes: 98. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Neubauer, ladies and gentlemen is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. The names of the members of the joint committee will be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz, Brunner, Bucher; Darmann, Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Korun; Lausch, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Roskranz, Rossmann; Scheibner, Donk, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl; Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Darabos, Donabauer, perforation; Incubators, eaters; Fazekas, Franz, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Großruck, Grünberger; Haberzettl, Hakl Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek; Ikrath; Kaipel, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lipitsch, Lueger Angela; Marek, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz, Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, schitzenhelm, Schmeilenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll, Szep; Tamandl; Weninger, Windish, Weavinger, Worm;
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e8996	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mr Strache, Mr Bucher, Mr Ing. Lugar, colleagues in relation to the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management in accordance with Article 74(l). 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. There is no vote on the request for a secret vote also supported by 20 Members. It is known: The polls called “Yes” – grey polls, “No” – pink polls, are in the pultices. I would ask you to use only those ballots. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called on, in particular, to put the ballot into the urn provided. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a reluctance to vote in favour of the 'Yes' vote, those who vote against to cast 'No' vote in the urn. Be careful to throw only one vote mark. I would ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin with the name call; Mr. Anna Franz will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e9073	The vote will end. I would ask you to make the number of votes as usual. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e9111	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 157 of which ‘Yes’ votes: 61, No votes: 96. The distrust of Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, Strache, Bucher, Ing. Lugar is therefore rejected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein; Brosz, Brunner, Bucher; Darmann, Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Garter, grassy, Count, Grosz; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert, Höbart, Huber, Hübner; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Korun; Lauch, Linder, List, Lugar; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Roskranz, Rossmann; Scheibner, Gift, Schwennner, Spadiut, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Darabos, Donabauer, perforation; Incubators, eaters; Fazekas, Franz, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Grossmann, Großruck, Grünberger; Haberzettl, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek; Ikrath; Kaipel, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lipitsch, Lueger; Marek, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber, Steibl, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll, Szep; Tamandl; Wenninger, Windy, Wivener, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e9297	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on bee-hazard neonicotinoides: Imker compensate, support farmers at the exit. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. - He doesn't find a majority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Steinhauser, colleagues on the abolition of official secrecy. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask for an acceptable sign. – He finds no majority and is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Gässner, Jannach, Huber, colleagues on the protection of bees in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 303.) vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, colleague and colleagues on the immediate ban on neonicotinoid insecticides on improving the protection of bees and the environment. Whoever supports this request, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The request is rejected. [[15:23:44]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e9369	We are now entering into a short debate. The brief debate concerns the request made by Members Bucher, colleague and colleagues, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the request 657/A by Members of Parliament for a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act, a period of time until 11. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker giving reasons for 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretarys shall not take more than 10 minutes. The applicant, Mr Klubobmann Bucher, has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e9406	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We submitted a request in May 2009 for the abolition of the summer break. We are discussing this every year and every year before the beginning of the summer holidays, because we are convinced that it is no longer up-to-date that we are locking up Parliament. We are thus restricting the very important rights of parliamentarians, namely the important right to ask questions to the government. This is what we are doing again this year because, in autumn, the National Council elections are known to be at the door and there are a number of legislative initiatives of the Federal Government. At least it has been announced that they will have to be dealt with before the legislative period is deleted. Mr. Cap is writing. Are you all right? - Good. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] So: Investigation Committee as a minority right – this is a stomach and body theme of Mr Cap. I think he's been wearing this for three decades in front of him here in the House. At least 26 years I hear this regularly here from the speaker's desk. And that goes on. [[Abg. May. Kogler: I don't want him to write anything!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: External!]] - Don't take a note of anything? Okay. The GmbH new, the daily turn hour, the Heeresreform – that is great at all, the Heeresreform! [[Call the SPÖ: Everything at work!]] In the January of this year, the people were specifically questioned. A great army reform has been announced, but nothing has happened so far. Make You're still a little bit ahead of the National Council election – or have you already given up everything? Then: New Security Doctor, Single Youth Protection, Banking Insolvency Law. Then I think of something that we have discussed with such an intrusion and such a passion in this House, namely the ban on speculation with taxpayers' money. Nothing more can be heard, nothing more can be read. You probably won't see that anymore because the interest has lost. The election date is fixed, and there are no more signs to make any efforts in this direction. We have a desire and arrogance to give you, red and black, the opportunity to bring it into the committees, to advise and decide. We won't fail. No matter how we stand on the individual projects of the Federal Government, we want to light up the turbo in this Federal Government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] When I look at the faces, I see that there is no more such great desire. At least we want to help you have enough time for the deliberations. We won't fail, it won't lie to us. We don't want the gates and gates to be closed over the summer months. In any case, I assume every single person in here that he will not enjoy any summer holidays this year due to the election date. [[Call the SPÖ: Not only this day!]] - Not just this, okay. What is it about? What does it fail to do this summer and prove to the citizens that we are taking our functions and our tasks to be fulfilled here seriously? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from BZÖ are in favour. We also do not let this pretext, which is always made, apply. Mr Cap says it doesn't make much sense if we hold a meeting a few weeks or one, two months or days before a new election date, because then the same thing could happen as in 2008. At that time, these pre-election decisions led to a very easy-to-use handling of taxpayers' money. I think that was about the hold that was made. I would have said that is the pure fear of itself, the pure fear of SPÖ and ÖVP of itself. It is up to you and to your majority, which you have here, not to allow such unwise decisions. But as we have seen today in the vote on the motion for a reluctance, the pure fear is written to you in the face because you do not even trust each other on the way. That's reality. That's why it's a protected argumentation. You want to protect yourselves from yourselves, and therefore you do not want to hold any more meetings in the High House. I am firmly convinced that there will be special meetings, even in the summer months. The BZÖ is always ready for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e9497	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e9518	A little bit of this speech by the clubman Bucher has already worked like a farewell speech, according to the motto: Not quite among us, as if he were a little on cloud seven. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of SPÖ]] In fact, Parliamentary Bucher has admitted that the other Members of Parliament are in the constituencies during the two months of the part-session and are there reporting on the work of recent years or presenting the electoral programmes there, of course, asking who to talk to. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: (in the direction of BZÖ) You have no more voters!]] If I look at your last election results, I have to say: This is really a poor audience, which is still available at all times. It's been a little bit like you had a slight, almost sad undertone. So I almost got involved with you. Still, I don't feel any interest because I don't think the whole thing is useful what you're doing. You know very well that, if necessary, there can be an interruption of the part-session-free time here at any time, we can therefore meet at any time at an extraordinary plenary session and the main committee works here all the time throughout the summer. [[Abg. Bucher: This is about the question to the Federal Government!]] That's why I don't see what you want to extend. And from four months of summer break! That is not true at all because, in reality, we now have to speak and answer in the constituencies, some throughout Austria, that we are talking and answering about what we are planning for the next few years. For this there are citizens' and citizens' meetings, for which there are various events in the establishments, in the inn and at the sports courts. What's more, Of course, some still have fire brigades, and what do I know? You also have to be there, there you have to be present and discuss. I don't know how you do this, but I have to tell you: This is already with a lot of work and with a lot of contacts with the citizens – especially before a election – with the electorate. [[Abg. Bucher: How many fire brigades are there under the week?- Oh, my God!]] And I think they deserve to be present on the spot, they deserve to be shown there this presence that you have here throughout the year, but especially then during that time. But if you think you should think about a reform of the Rules of Procedure in the form – it has already been suggested that, for example, the right of question should also go over the summer –: We've always been for it. [[Abg. Scheibner: It didn't come!]] – We were always in favour of being able to ask questions during the summer and thus have this form of communication. [[Abg. Brosz: Why don't we do it?]] We're even offering more now. We have presented a whole package with a citizens' request where the electorate, the citizens, can ask questions directly to the members of the government from the point of view of 10 000 votes of electronic support. [[Ironic cheerfulness at the BZÖ]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Due to your reaction it is recognizable: They are quite indifferent whether citizens can ask questions. Don't you want that? Don't you think it's emancipated enough, informed enough or not enough? Do you want to rule them out? We have made a proposal that more direct democracy is possible. [[Abg. Grosz: Jaja!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: By the fire brigade!]] – They do not take this proposal seriously as they used to be in school. But that would, for example, be an aspect that would certainly make a contribution. The laws you listed: Yeah, we're trying to figure this out. [[Abg. Bucher: But it has been announced a great deal!]] Some are going into the next government negotiations, whoever is allowed to sit there, some are still being processed. But husch-push, husch-push, as you sometimes suggest, that's not a solution, because then you have to innovation again, you have to change and improve it again. We want to make precise, good laws, which also keep before the courts and which can also be implemented. That is one of the reasons why we need a reasonable time in some laws. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] And then there are discussions or debates about laws where there is no consensus. Sometimes there is no consensus between the respective coalition parties; sometimes there is no consensus, although we make great efforts to involve all parties in the decisions together. You have to pay tribute to the fact that there is really an attempt to address the opposition everywhere, and there is an attempt to involve it in that it can form if it has ideas. [[Abg. Bucher: That there is an opportunity! Investigation Committee!]] But I mean, it's also that sometimes you don't get a compromise and that doesn't work out. I think it is far from justified that you, Mr Klubobmann Bucher, call the whole holiday or vacation. [[Abg. Bucher: I didn't say that!]] If you define this as vacation or vacation, this is your thing. If you hang the big toes into the Wörthersee, then do it! Let the toes in! But I tell them the following: On the side of my parliamentary group is now going to be – right now! ==References== September the National Council elections will be held around the clock. And we will do everything we can to do our best here. And this is work and not vacation, Mr. Klubobmann Bucher!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e9722	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e9744	Mr President. High house! Five comments on this request from the BZÖ. First: The request is four years old – Mr Bucher pointed out – and it was made from 29 years of age. ==References== It was strangely never requested by the BZÖ that it should come on the agenda of the Constitutional Committee. We are now making a brief debate here, but the Committee has not yet discussed it. Second note: It is as if Parliament were unable to act during the summer, i.e. during the part-session. – That’s simple and just wrong. A special meeting can be requested by a third of the national Council's representatives. [[Abg. Scheibner: Without committee work!]] That is, the opposition also has this possibility. We have already experienced this in the context of today's special meeting. And it is also possible that the meeting will be re-established in the committees and, of course, decisions will also be taken. If it is necessary if a situation occurs that requires us to hold committee meetings or plenary sessions, then we have the opportunity – both the government parties and the opposition parties – to do so and to implement it. Thirdly, I would like to mention the National Council's work balance here. This can also be seen. The annual report 2012 has been addressed to you all. We had 47 plenary sessions with 300 hours of meeting time, 3 240 written questions and 144 committee meetings. What I would also like to mention is that in May, June and July we have eight plenary sessions: two in May, three in June and three in July. These are already agreed. I have also looked at the committees that are going to meet. All committees, except a few, will be convened; some will meet two or three more days. That is, we will have a very intense time in the coming weeks. There are still a number of proposals that need to be implemented from our point of view, and that is still going to happen. But what we do not want, ladies and gentlemen, is for the election campaign to be brought into Parliament here. We experienced this five years ago. ==References== ==References== If you take the vote on this 24. Looking at September 2008, this is unique, ladies and gentlemen. It went by €3 billion back then. A total of twelve measures with around €3 billion have been decided. I do not take up my group; everyone has voted in favour of certain projects, but there is only one party that has voted everywhere, that is SPÖ. The FPÖ has not given its approval to an application, otherwise all. The Greens and the BZÖ have approved additional expenditure of around €2.5 billion and the ÖVP of € 2.1 billion. And such a day, ladies and gentlemen, we should not allow revue to happen, that in the heat of the election campaign there is, as it were, a non-voting procedure here. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Kogler and Kickl.]] According to the motto “Who offers more?” – that was on that 24. September so – decisions were taken here, which had to be taken back in part, because they were simply and simply not financeable. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's incredible talk! That's self- shutdown!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] For this, ladies and gentlemen, the ÖVP is no longer to have: that we have a 24. September 2008 here in Parliament, let Revue happen again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: You of the ÖVP are the sovereign world champions!]] And the last point, ladies and gentlemen: We agree that a parliamentary reform may occur after the elections. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Tell me the Members are too stupid!]] In our opinion, we have far too many committees. We could make the meetings more efficient. It is also about the working conditions of Members and about amendments to the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen. If you look at the constitution marathon that some former members of the BZÖ have caused, because the Stronach team has formed itself and we have had to re-establish more than 20 committees each time, because after d’Hondt the system has changed, then, I think, we also need action on the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP delegates are among the people during the summer break, they are with the population. We care for our constituencies as the population expects. We're holding our speech. We are with people on the spot, we get in touch with them, we communicate with people and we listen to them too. That too belongs to the business of a Member of Parliament. We are also active in local policy, ladies and gentlemen. Some of you, if I should give you this as a council, would do well to work properly in local policy, because there people are closest to it in terms of policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e9859	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Stefan speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e9891	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, that's an interesting argument, we think I have to say. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] First of all, listen to the voters and so on, that is obviously the opposite to parliamentaryism. That's one thing. Secondly, this seems to take place only in the summer, because you listen to the voters for two months, but not in between. This argument is quite peculiar. In general, we seem to be very vulnerable to making gifts here. Most of the gifts, however, seem to be already being made by the government parties. I come to this opinion when I look at the debt of the Austrian state. So you're already a big part of it. So that's a very strange argument. It seems that there is no need to hold more parliamentary sessions several months before a election. You may already be able to make the proposal for a suspension period and thus ensure that four or five months before a election in the House no longer takes place, otherwise the election campaign, the one for the National Council election, would be transferred to Parliament. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's terrible!]] That would in principle be rejected. Secondly, it would be crazy if we were to discuss this again just before one election and perhaps also to set a course for the future. It does not matter in itself, if Parliament does not meet once for four or five months, it does not seem to make any difference at all, because ultimately it is about talking to the citizen, and not about the decision-making of Parliament. – I really cannot understand this argument. I'll give you the right thing if you say we're not just working here. That's quite clear. Everyone who wanted to divide this now is completely wrong. Of course, it's not only working here, it's completely logical. But that does not mean for a long time that Parliament does not meet for four months in a specific case this year. That has nothing to do with it. [[Abg. Wöger: Why four months?]] Of course it is! You know that very well: On 5, 6. July is over, and there is no official meeting until the National Council election. The next one will be around the end of October. And that's just four months. And if you say something else now, you know exactly that you don't mean it. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I think it is right for you to set a time period in which there are no meetings, because you have to do that with such a large number of people simply so that you can coordinate it. But there are two months too long. You can make that shorter. One important point is that there can be no questions during the session-free period. You could solve this with a small stroke. It is not even necessary to change the Constitution, but only to change the Rules of Procedure in § 91 of the Rules of Procedure by essentially removing three words that questions can only be asked “within one session”. Then at least one would have removed this argument, and that would be a way. And it wouldn't be bad if we had time for that. This year, too, there are some things to be regulated. There should be no constant argument until 5. July has to be done, because after that there is nothing left. This can suppress everything. For example, the development of direct democracy is also an issue that cannot take place only because we are in times of need, and so on and so on. So all these arguments would fall away with that. Give yourself a back! Argument She's not as wrong as anyone would have claimed that we're only working here and not in the constituencies or elsewhere. This is not the issue, but it is a matter of not being able to lock up here for two months in a contemporary way, and it is not a matter of being able to make requests during the free-of-the-art period.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e9959	The next speaker was Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e9980	Mr President. The debate on how long we are locked up in summer is now following us, I believe, for ten years, always in “Austria”. “Austria” describes this every year. It always has the same picture, so to speak. It has usually been, or almost always, the BZÖ, in which the debate begins. In this case, the question is different, because if an election campaign takes place, then you have to look at which meetings can still take place. In principle, of course, the question of how long a Parliament should or may have been free of sitting in the summer is justified. I find the debate, as it is led by Mr Cap, to some extent unfair. I don't know what to do if you just say that even a politician with a family or without a family has the right to go on vacation with his family for two or three weeks, even in the summer. That must be possible and should also be inside. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: We have elections!]] Yes, then you don't have to go here and explain that he's driving from a fire brigade to the other, and that's the only reason why you lock up Parliament. Perhaps a month will be enough for that, and it won't have to be two months. Then you might be able to limit it to that. It would also help if we all gave up this honesty and did not act like nothing else and as if a family life for politicians were basically impossible and wrong. - That was point one. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Dr. Cap.]] By the way, Mr Cap, can you remember the time when we were in opposition together? We have had a funny word with the Greens. That was the so-called Cap calendar. [[Cheerfulness with Greens and BZÖ.]] The Cap calendar was that we knew when Mr. Cap was on vacation, because then we knew exactly, there's no special meeting, and there's also the greens on vacation. So let's not pretend to be this holiday planning. In any event, I think the third story is a business accident, because we can convene special meetings with a third of the Members, resulting from the past and from the fact that SPÖ and the ÖVP never believed that the opposition could have a third. This has been an operational accident, which now only opens us up this possibility. Now it's right. Now it's easier. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] - That's right. Mr Amon already has a tip on how to change this. There will certainly not be any meetings, but there will be a reasonable sequence. The following point, of course, is raised correctly, Mr Cap: How long have we been talking about the story about the questions in the summer? Three periods? Four periods? What does that fail to do? Well, not to you. We have requested it four times, I think, Mr Scheibner has already requested it. The application is available three to four times in each period, it is only not decided by the government parties. Maybe we'll bring this together. That would be a help too. What is particularly absurd about the situation is that this applies only to the National Council. The Federal Council may bring in at any time, the National Council cannot make any contribution for two months. So, in the sense of control, that's just not to explain. If you want to do the same with the ten thousand citizens' and citizens' requests, you can write: For ten months we can carry the question to Parliament, two months to the national fire brigade, because then the Members will be there. Then you might also be able to make inquiries all year round. . So we're holding the debate a little bit more honest. Many things are open to control, too, right. Research committee as a minority law, which would also be a good topic. I don't think I've heard that from the ÖVP, do I? Was that also on the reform list? The investigative committee? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No! That wasn't on it!]] Or were there only fewer committees and more yawny meetings on it? I didn't get that all. How was that great wail? We still have eight meetings in two months. Yes, as a parliamentarian, we can probably stand that. The problem is somewhere else. How many opposition requests remain untreated at the end of the period do we have in the committees? That's a four-digit order. We are probably talking about 1,500 applications that have never been processed. [[Abg. That's crazy!]] That's the point. [[Abg. Bucher: More!]] - Yeah, it's supposed to be 2,000. I don't know. It was once a thousand, I didn't count them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] But if one has the right to take up the requests that are here once, perhaps we could agree on that. [[Abg. Strache: This is the refusal of the government to work!]] What is the practice in the house? – There is a committee if there is a government proposal. And if there is no government paper in one area for a year, there will be no committee for a year. We do not have committee planning that goes all year round, but always when the government calls there is a committee, and if there are opposition requests and the government does not need anything, there is no committee. So when we talk about parliamentarianism again, we should not just talk about the fact that we have so many committees. I mean, if you make fewer committees, how many times do you want them to meet? There are then hundreds of applications in each committee that are not processed! A variant with regular committee meetings – which can take place at least every two months – we would already have a multiple of what is happening and a better processing of applications – and, if necessary, let us say, shorter but more meetings per month, which also cannot hurt the EIA. Enough people who can come to Vienna from time to time will also be sitting at the ÖVP in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e10096	The next speaker was Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e10117	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This request or debate should have two aspects: a formal and a content. The formal situation has so far been somewhat too short in the debate. This is a deadline request. That means that we want this request to be debated and decided on, because, ladies and gentlemen, this request has been in the Committee since 2009 – that is, for four years – and is not being discussed. Many other applications suffer from the same fate. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, if you are so opposed - I come to the arguments then - if You are of the opinion that this request from the BZÖ that Parliamentary work should also be allowed in the summer is so impossible and so unreasonable, then put it on the agenda and vote against it. But then you will also present your arguments here. I do not understand at all why we do not even have the courage to vote against it, but at least to offer the opportunity to debate it and then comment on the decisions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now to the contents. Mr Cap, you said you would be able to make requests during the summer months. – Well, there is a request from the BZÖ in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We have debated this last time, and you have postponed it together with the Austrian People's Party. So if you're in favour of it, why don't you vote for it, but delay it again? That is exactly the double-beddedness, ladies and gentlemen, to say here that you would be for that anyway, but on the other hand, you do not even want to debate it for any reason and do not vote on it, but delay this request. It would probably be the minimum that even in the summer – because there is no fire brigade and nothing else – at least you can make requests. As regards this argument, Mr Cap: So in July and August, you're at the fire brigades. - Otherwise, aren't you at the base? - Yes, you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Your chair is also far left, no wonder, a little bit further and he's gone. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] I think that is realistic, because you do not do anything in this House except interlocutory calls. Perhaps Mr. Cap thought of Mr. Matznetter when he said: At least July, August I would like to have peace with such colleagues. – It may be, and I can understand that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Cap, fire brigades in your constituency – in 17th century. District is the main fire station, over there in Ottakringer Straße – but I do not think there are many festivals there July, August. [[Abg. Riepl: Johann-Nepomuk-Berger-Platz!]] Yes, at Johann-Nepomuk-Berger-Platz. But there you always have to go and support the firemen always and not just July, August to the festivals, because they do great work all year round. And we too want to work all year round, because this is simply necessary for our Republic. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] In addition, Mr Cap, these celebrations in the country usually take place Friday, Saturday, Sunday, as the people in that country work during the week, just as we do. In so far as I am right, Mr Cap, that this discussion is always going ahead about salaries, passports – by the way also launched by your party – working conditions of Parliament, which is really absurd and should also be included. But it should not be included in the discussion when it comes to the fact that we are of course also in the summer – by the way, the government, by the way, there is only one Council of Ministers meeting in the summer! – in July, August should work. The best of all was Mr Wöginger's argument against this initiative. He recalled that there was this meeting in 2008, in which €3 billion were decided, which had not been financed. . That as an argument that no national Council meetings should be held before elections really testifies to a huge degree of self-criticism as a Member of Parliament. [[Abg. List: Unheard!]] Well, it may be that this applies to some, but you can't be serious that this is the argument: It is not allowed to hold national Council meetings because the Members are too irresponsible in their voting behaviour because they seem to disable the brain – Copyright Wöginger – when they are in the election campaign shortly before elections. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] - You obviously weren't here when he said that. This is impossible, Mr Wöginger! . We believe that the honourable Member is good enough and shows enough self-responsibility that he can also work in elections before elections here in Parliament and also make reasonable decisions. [[Abg. Grosz: That's it!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. That's where the ÖVP looks skeptical!]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] By the way, this was a special meeting of the SPÖ. We want work to be done in summer. We do not want special meetings, but we want a regular work plan with committee and national Council meetings. That's planable and that's also enforceable.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e10253	The last speaker was Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e10274	Mr President. High house! Yes, it is often the case that you can get rid of newspapers, you have to say that, for example, when a newspaper has a permanent summer break of four months. Something definitely belongs to reformed. Madam President, your parliamentary staff or the staff of the House will always start in September at 170 minutes. These are being dismantled. Hours beyond that will then be reduced in the summer. A driver, for example, starts at 200 minutes. And then I'd ask myself, Is that really still true in modern times? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] - I got these numbers black on white five minutes ago from your office. It is only one thing to consider, Madam President: Is this still up-to-date? And is it still modern that we debate the same every year, namely, when we set up the newspapers before the summer and see that the Federal Chancellor or someone else is on holiday under palm trees in summer and does nothing else? Mr Cap, you just mentioned this, the main problem is that we cannot make any requests in the summer. - Well, then we'll decide today. The SPÖ is for this, I think, isn't it? The FPÖ, as I believe, is also the BZÖ, also the Greens and we from the Stronach team. Then we have to say it publicly: It is only the ÖVP against it. I also ask the ORF to hold it this way today: The ÖVP is against the fact that we are allowed to make requests in the summer. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we now have election time, but I think everyone here is very good and able to speak here and also ask questions. As we are already talking about reforms, Madam President: We need to consider whether we want this drawerization of opposition applications to continue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] - What do you mean? [[Abg. May. Prammer: This is a constitutional question!]] . That is a constitutional question, and that is why we are debating this today, Madam President. That means we have to change that. You just said it was bothering you. Also for the protocol: Madam President, Mr Prammer is disrupting the fact that the opposition proposals are being permanently shoved. We just pointed out before that at least 1,500 are in the drawer. Is that how to deal with a third of the population, Madam President? - I don't think so! That means I'm right about Mr Scheibner, we have to do something here. We shall therefore consider voting at the next National Council meeting. The President-in-Office of the Council has also said that this should not be the case in the future. That is why I would also like us to do this before the summer break, so that there will be no summer break in the future and that there will no longer be any such news in the newspapers. All employees of the High House – and we have almost 500 – are doing great work, each and every one of them, including the technicians in the back. No one needs to be constantly reading in the newspapers that there is nothing to do in the summer. Everyone continues to work normally. We are simply guilty of this ourselves, because the government is guilty that we do not change this here. That is why I would like us to work together to bring about a constitutional change so that there is no longer any such thing in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e10334	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 657/A, a deadline until 11. ==References== I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Vote on a further request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e10367	We shall immediately vote on the request of Mr Neubauer, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to report on Amendment No 1113/A(E) by Mrs Neubauer, colleagues on the prohibition of neonicotinoid-beijzed maize seed, until 22. ==References== [[Call to the ÖVP: Where is the colleague Neubauer?]] I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request for approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[15:59:09]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-05-14-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00202_d7e10400	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 2281/A(E) to 2289/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Question No 14713/J to 14727/J has also been received. Finally, a question has been put by Members of Parliament to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 22. May 2013, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. Before I close this meeting, I announce that the following committees will meet after this meeting: the Court of Auditors Committee at local VI, the Public Prosecutors' Committee at local VIII and the Equal Treatment Committee in local V. This meeting is closed.
