ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e1691	Good day, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 6th. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of the 3. Meeting and the official protocols of the 4th and 5ths. ==References== In November 2013, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies of Muchitsch, Dr. Karlsböck and Zanger are reported as prevented. [[10:16:50]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e1725	Mrs Astrid Monika Eder-Lindner has not been appointed to the National Council by the Federal Electoral Authority, and Mrs Ulrike Weigerstorfer has been appointed to the National Council. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the mandater will have to do her fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now seeking the author, Mr Buchmayr, to read the vow formula. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e1764	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e1785	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e1801	I very much welcome the new honourable Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[10:17:57]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e1828	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:18:10]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e1943	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question raised at the beginning of the sitting 169/J by Mr Strache, fellow Members, to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany concerning the disinformation policy on the budgetary situation of Austria. [[10:18:36]] Notice of applications for the establishment of an investigation committee
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e1965	Deputies Dr. Nachbaur, colleagues and colleagues have, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the establishment of an investigative committee concerning the examination of political and legal responsibility in connection with the 'hypodesaster'. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. The Members of Parliament also have power. Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure request that an investigation committee be set up on the further examination of political and legal responsibility in connection with the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank. This is also the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. I will, since the objects of the two applications for the establishment of an investigation committee are similar, in agreement with the applicants in the sense of a practice practised in these cases, namely that the applications are first justified and then the debate on the same subject is carried out under one. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, debate and votes are taking place after the urgent question. The call for urgent request will take place at 1.15 p.m. The meeting will be held on a full-length basis at ORF 2 from 13:15 a.m. to 4 p.m. and ORF III. I would point out that the Standing Subcommittee of the National Defence Committee is meeting at 11 a.m. in the Standing Subcommittee's Chamber. I am now interrupting the sitting until 1.15 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e2038	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[13:15:56]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor concerning the disinformation policy on the budgetary situation of Austria (169/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e2074	We come to the urgent discussion of the written question 169/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e2299	I now give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Strache as the first questioner to justify the question. It's not supposed to exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e2320	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today's special session, which was jointly requested by the Freedom Party and the Greens, is, in the truest sense, an emergency measure of opposition in view of all the developments that follow the election day, 29 October. September has become obvious, and that is – I am saying this quite consciously – no employment therapy, Mr Bundeskanzler, although in view of the standstill we are experiencing, this would also be appropriate, but it is an indispensable act of the parliamentary emergency force which we are putting here today, if one has to experience that, before the election of the population, the government clearly said the untruth and tried to resolve a choice with wrong budget figures and with false figures and data – otherwise one cannot call it – and then after the election day it becomes obvious how the true budget development and the true budget hole look out. [[In the case of the FPÖ, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Dr. Rebauber]] This is not something that has come over the night or over the day, that is something for which, of course, you, Mr Bundeskanzler, are also responsible in your government responsibility in recent years. And if you constantly bring the Austrians behind the light, then this is an act that can only be described as dishonest and where I say, I understand that the citizens of the collars have been put in place; but not only the citizens, but also the opposition in this House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I wonder, How can you even be trusted, Federal Chancellor Faymann, if you have to experience such developments today? And what are you supposed to think of a chancellor who has clearly guided his own people before the National Council election in order to make a choice for himself and for his favour, where one can assume today, if the citizens had known the truth, would the election have gone out differently?- Oh, my God! And of course you must have been in the picture, Mr. Federal Chancellor. I do not think you can make yourself up and claim today that you did not know anything about these current figures and once again make exactly the attempt that we have experienced at the last meeting of Mrs Fekter's Minister of Finance, namely to push everything to the perspective, to push it on to economists or to push it to the Wifo. The only thing that can't work is not fair. You are the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria, the head of the government, and I say: They're responsible. You have decisions to make. You have responsibility for your employees. You have responsibility for your experts, who also teach you, and above all for the entire government team. And today no one can sit down and pretend he didn't know it in the last five years. This is exactly what it is all about, and we will not let you out of responsibility. You are ultimately liable in your position for Your decisions, you have this responsibility. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as by Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, Dr. Nachbaur and Dr. Strolz.]] Therefore, the two alternatives remain once again: Did you, Mr President of the Federal Republic Werner Faymann, operate with false figures knowingly before the election and set out false starting positions in order to favour the people there, or have you not been able or unable or incompetent to properly assess the situation? – So I think it’s probably the first one, but that’s actually even worse. It's really bad when you know how to say the untruth and how to precipitate things. Mr. Faymann! They have already promised many things, even in the election campaign they made totally unreasonable promises, in order not to say, also demanded impossible things. Because of your knowledge at the time, it must be called unreasonable that you have made many promises in the election campaign. I recall many promises, which were also the case before: that, for example, a referendum will be held in the event of substantial changes in the Treaty work of the European Union – in this respect you have not complied with your promise – or that promises will be made which will improve everything in the future. Given your knowledge of the budget hole, this is not fair. This has been dishonest. Because you are always dealing with the term “populism” and are also happy to blame the opposition populism: Yes, what if it wasn't the purest populism you've been doing in the knowledge of the budget hole? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can also call it Chuzpe, but I repeat: Obviously you have proved one in the last five years and have shown that you are not to do with a state. I say that you seem to be blinding like a little hat player playing something for your own people. And I say you can't support that. In principle, we are open to all honest cooperation and cooperation, but if one has to do with people who have ultimately abused the trust of the people – I say quite openly – then it will not be possible with such persons to find any form of cooperation, because this is a minimum of grace that one must live. Especially in politics, people expect that with truth and honesty one opens up to unpleasant things, even though sometimes it is unpleasant for one to mention such things openly by name, to call problem developments openly by name, and not necessarily to win friends through them, but at least to have respect and propriety. Mr Faymann, you are no longer a member of the SPÖ in Vienna today, but I say that you cannot deny this Vienna SPÖ political party from which you come. It was especially absurd, too, when the mayor of Vienna, Häupl, was sitting in the “press hour” and there the existence of a budget hole was completely abominable. There you can only talk about a bird-strout policy, but I understand some things at the mayor of Vienna: He has also managed at the AVZ Foundation to push down €1.7 billion in popular assets to € 60 million. Then there are the Madoff criminal scandals that have not been clarified to this day. There are some developments that one has to highlight, which he probably also tries to wipe away and present as if he had nothing to do with it. But I say: The Federal Government is rightly obliged by law to create a multi-annual financial framework – precisely because of this, obviously evil To prevent surprises and also to be able to respond in time. I wonder, Since when has the denial of such budgetary developments been the right solution, Mr Faymann? – It is precisely now that action has been announced and it would be necessary, with the right and perhaps still possible moderate corrections, to pick up one or the other. You should comply with this obligation. This commitment to establish a financial framework is, by the way, a commitment that has also been made by the European Union. This is the institution you are so excited about at every speech, which comes from the European Union all the blessed and great things. And there is the important body, the Council of Heads of State and Government, in which you too, Mr Faymann, are the only Austrian. That's what I'm asking myself: Do you know what has been voted on there and where you have agreed? – This is exactly what this financial framework is all about. Of course, it can be easy for you to lose track of the European Union in the face of so much cadaver obedience there or there, because whoever says yes and Amen, of course, often has little motivation to deal with the contents. It is probably preferable to break one's mind on how to imagine an X for an U at home, how great the European Union and the decision-making processes there are, and how great, ultimately, are the requirements there, all of which should only be for the best of the Austrian population. That's what it's all about. It's obvious. Her political credo must vote. Karl Marx once said: “The being determines the consciousness.” – With you one can interpret this, as apparently the appearance determines your consciousness. Otherwise, I cannot explain your behavior in recent years and above all after the election. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Debates of the European Parliament It can only be a coincidence that one of your closest political friends is the French President Hollande. There's always how great it is in France. If you look at France, you can see that Hollande is, in the meantime, the most unpopular official France has ever had in its history – and that has been the case since then. And that's your special friend, always pointing to France's model. . So I do not know what should be an example of the fact that this country is completely cut off and is currently also in a disaster as regards the labour market and economic development. It is good that in France our partners like a Marine Le Pen will do a little bit to counter them and ensure a correction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So if you always set France as an example, I say: Good night, Austria! It is really common danger if you want to address these developments, which are really going in a negative direction in all areas, then also in Austria. Mr Bundeskanzler, I also ask: What if after over five years as head of government, you finally stop blinding, and finally start work? It is precisely what matters, namely being honest at last, finally being open and making it transparent, what we really have to do with problems. As we all know today and have always been suspected for a long time, the Republic of Austria is partly facing insolvency. With all the budget hole developments, with all the outsourced areas, the ASFINAG, the ÖBB, the municipalities, we have today in reality a government debt of over 90 percent of GDP, the Republic Austria is indeed facing insolvency thanks to the bad policies of recent years. That's the bitter pill you need to talk about. There people expect truth and transparency, as people expect things to be put on the table, also put budget figures on the table and finally implement the appropriate measures. Since you have to jump over your shadows and give the citizens real pure wine, you must not leave people in the dark and put in another five years of a turn programme, where after five years we will still find a bigger disaster, from which we may not come out at all, because the situation will then have become so dramatic that you will have no more chance at all to break it down and overcome it halfway. It is now about losing no more time, even if there are no more five years of idleness or empty phrases. I ask you: Are you willing to live this responsibility here? – Because if not, then the most honest way is the way in new elections. Then, together with the EU election, we should also ensure a national election, then we have no extra costs and the citizens can make a decision that would be necessary. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Nachbaur.]] Of course, there is a lot to be done. I say we have little room. We have a situation where we know that we are in a financial crisis within the Euro-Currency Union, where we ultimately have to expect further massive debt, we can also take on further liability, but we can also become liable. We are in a misguided situation where, of course, we need to discuss fundamentally how we can counter it and get out of it. There's little room. However, despite the low margin of future investment. We need to invest in Austria's economic location. We need to relieve the economy as much as possible so that it can invest in order to create and secure jobs so that it can remain competitive – and not develop that even smaller and medium-sized enterprises in Austria have to expect further tax increases, as you have announced, so that this medium-sized and job-creators in Austria are only quite under pressure and we are experiencing even more unemployment. We need to support labour market offensives. We must invest in education and research, otherwise we will take every opportunity to get out of this crisis ever again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us look at the current labour market – the labour market has always been well spoken of for years – a dramatic development! Compared to the previous year, an increase in the number of unemployed by 10.8 percent! I say that with the training participants, but those people who are necessarily sent in early retirement are not included. In other countries, this is the case insofar as there is no early retirement and these people are sent to unemployment there. We have the model of early retirement, which of course does not show up in unemployment statistics. Even those young people who leave school and have never had a job before do not appear in the statistics. Currently 381 582 people are unemployed in Austria. This is a plus of 37,061 people compared to the previous year. Dramatic! The AMS chief, who happens to be also called head – like the second president here; perhaps he will They also agree with him, Mr President, that it is to be feared that in January 2014, up to 450 000 people in Austria could be unemployed, as it must be assumed that the construction sector will, in fact, come to an end for several months, too little investment will be made there. It can therefore be quite clear that this dramatic peak of 450 000 unemployed will be reality. Dramatic! I'm asking: Where is the counter-control? Where are the concepts against this development? – It does not help us if we hear permanently: But please, in Spain it is worse, in Greece it is worse!, no, because we have the worst development in this area in the Second Republic. This does not help us any more, we need concrete measures to counter this. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Nachbaur.]] It does not help us to see a further opening of the labour market starting in January 2014, for Romanians and Bulgarians, which was made possible by your consent. This will further stimulate the Austrian labour market, will continue to take place on the labour market by forcing cheaper workers, employees, Austrians and already well-integrated people in Austria from the labour market and pushing them into unemployment. That's not responsible. I ask why we have not opposed this, why we have not stopped it, why we have not negotiated with the European Union, in order to postpone it for a few years. We have enough problems and concerns in our own country. Here again in Vienna – here we are at the red-green Vienna – in the red-green Vienna, there is a negative highlight. Already in October, Mayor Häupl had to admit that there are already 122,374 unemployed people in Vienna – an increase of 12.9 percent compared to the previous year. And I say that's far from the end of the flag rod. Unfortunately, there is still much to be feared. In view of the development in Vienna, one really has to say that Vienna is a leader in the negative sense. And this record of unemployment is a bitter gift, which, on the one hand, the Federal Chancellor has left to the citizens at the federal level and, on the other hand, of course, the heads of state in their responsibilities under the Christmas tree to the citizens. We need structural reforms! Without basic structural reforms, we will not get out of this Pallawach. Of course, the marode budget needs to be rehabilitated. I can only point out for the last time that the Court of Auditors has made 599 very concrete proposals, by which it can be implemented in the medium term to ensure a savings potential of up to €12 billion a year without losing quality and to relieve citizens, or by doing so could enable recovery of interest and debt. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] President-in-Office of the Council of the Council Dr Moser has just recently expressed strong criticism of the Federal Government, as exactly what is not true, which is always claimed by the government bank, namely that more than half of these 599 proposals would have been implemented anyway. Don't do that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hunger.]] Pure placebo Developments and Displays from Your Side! Instead of taking up the Court of Auditors' proposals for a better and more effective use of existing budget resources, we are threatened now, after a reformal rigidity has ruled over the last five years, with a refusal to reform, that there are no reforms again, but only, as I hear, we can think about how Hollande in France once again burdened the citizens with tax increases. What does that mean? – This means getting rid of the working people, the middle class and also the pensioners. And that is not a concept! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How are the diligent people who created and work every day that they hear from you over and over again that you are thinking of burdening citizens with new taxes. You should finally start with yourself. There would be enough to do that! There are enough privileges in this country, where there could be sufficient opportunities to save in the government, enough opportunities to save in the administration, and enough opportunities to make the right investments to boost the economy, and perhaps to get out of recession in the long term, and thus to achieve more tax revenue. That's what it's all about. And this requires transparency in budgetary matters. It must be over with the cover-up actions we've experienced. The way in which Mrs Fekter, the Minister of Finance, answered the questions last time, has almost corresponded to an increase. It was almost an increase in the way in which the Minister for Finance has gone over it and the questions have not been answered. That too must be stopped. In a more serious democracy and in a more serious parliamentaryism, one cannot overrun questions raised by the opposition, but must provide answers to them. And that's exactly what we demand. [[In the case of FPÖ and NEOS-LIF, as well as the Abg. Dr. Nachbaur.]] As long as you refuse to do so, we will increase the pressure from the opposition and keep quoting you here in Parliament until you learnt it. You can't let that happen. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I therefore conclude by saying: It is necessary to restart completely. The time of truth and honesty has come. And you too, Mr Faymann, will not be able to prevent that!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e2571	Mr Faymann spoke in response to the question. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e2593	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The speeches of Mr Strache – I have been here for a few years now – always follow the same pattern: in Europe practically a full disaster, Austria already towards state bankruptcy – and the FPÖ is already the first in this country by the voters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] What is the truth? – You have not become known at the National Council elections, which have just taken place, first – you have forgotten, as in all your other speeches I have heard – but, if I remember correctly, third parties. – That’s the truth. Secondly, ==References== In May 2013, Austria went towards State bankruptcy. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who lost in the election? - You!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – You will hopefully have seen the results of the election and will not believe the speeches. That would be sad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who lost? Who's the loser?]] So it's called Austria going towards state bankruptcy. – No talk of state bankruptcy, no talk of a catastrophic budget situation in Austria. The fact is, we pay the lowest interest rates for our government bonds, as those people who buy government bonds don't listen to our luck your speeches or qualify them as I do: as unjust! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Kickl.]] In fact, our state finances are stable. – Mr. Kickl, also smiled. [[Abg. Kickl: No, that's not crazy! I really have to laugh at you!]] Our state finances are stable. And those who buy state bonds worldwide do not stick to the FPÖ – fortunately for Austria and to your regret! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: But that was a very delicate applause!]] Now to answer the individual questions. Questions 1 to 3: They have asked what the current state of government negotiations is like. To this end: You know that negotiations will only be concluded on all points if an agreement is reached. Until then, of course, the topics are open. But there was a great deal of progress in the subgroups. Most of the working groups have completed their activities, so that we now have a good chance – I am confident – to conclude the negotiations positively in the main negotiating groups before Christmas. [[call to the FPÖ.]] On your questions, what if we do not complete them, or when we will complete them and how we will inform here: I will first inform the President of the Federal Republic of Germany of the outcome. Questions 4 and 5: Since 2010, the budget result – as much as the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance and the Federal Government – has always been better than in the Federal Government's proposal. I remember countless statements from you in this regard. What are the hard facts? – In 2010, a Maastricht deficit of 4.7 percent of our GDP was expected, and we reached 4.5 percent. Is that less or more? - Less. So we have done better by 0.2 percentage points! 2011: a better conclusion by 0.7 percentage points. [[Abg. Kickl: With or without debt?]] 2012: a better conclusion by 0.7 percentage points, that is to say, compared with the budget decided by this House. These deviations, which represent a better result, are the performance of correct estimates in the Ministry of Finance, the political responsible and the government, are the result of hard work, are the result of savings. [[Abg. Kickl: With or without new debts?]] They know that we have had significantly higher deficits for a number of years and that, despite the economic crisis, we have made such reliable budgets in some areas - caused by the economic crisis - and follow-up costs that we as a state have to bear, and that is to thank all those responsible. Question 6 – These are alleged tax failures: In this context, the financial transaction tax is to be mentioned, which is not to be suspended in 2014 – we would have liked to have done so politically; [[Abg. May. Kogler: such a surprise!]] You too, Mr. Kogler, right? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, eh!]] So we would have liked to have the financial transaction tax politically, but it is not to be suspended, since there is no fixed commitment to the introduction from Germany and the other countries that want to introduce it. However, the financial transaction tax continues to be found in our political demands and also in the programmes developed in Germany for the next government. In this respect, clear statements can be found in our direction in the course of the agreements. However, we have now had to remove the financial transaction tax in our preparations for a budget proposal for 2014. And as a precautionary measure, it is also to be taken out for 2015, but not because we give it up, but because we cannot introduce the financial transaction tax alone, otherwise we would have done it alone. Question 7: In the strategy report of the Ministry of Finance on the Federal Financial Framework Act, the procedure was presented and presented to the public in Parliament. As you know, it was discussed in the Committee on Budgets at the beginning of May and then in the plenary session, and expert hearings took place on the financial framework. The difference between forecasts and variations in forecasts can be seen in many areas in detail. Often the budget and the stability of our state finances are deliberately confused with questions of forecasts. This is about possible risks and possible uncertainties already next year, but also in the following years. And the longer-term a forecast is, the stronger it is, of course, subject to large variations, e.g. if we make a forecast by 2018. We have also agreed here in Parliament a long time ago, without the European Union – because you mentioned this – to make and discuss this preview in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek]] We know that between a preview and what is actually happening, there are great differences and that for those who want it, it is a topic for polemics found, but we believe that it is right to adapt, taking into account certain forecasts and risks, to possible tasks that come to us. Should you have heard of large tax increases for the population – I don't know who you asked –: I didn't say anything about this. [[Abg. Kickl: Don't you remember what you say on various parties?]] I have always made it clear that we are not going to tackle an increase in VAT – this is the classic increase that most countries in Europe have tried to improve their budget – because we believe that what was said before the election is true after the election – that it is precisely the increase in VAT that would affect large parts of the population, in particular those who have to spend the most in relation to food, for daily needs. I don't know who you heard that from, I don't know. You know that there could be a new tax in areas such as counter-financing, a revenue-related millionaire tax, other issues which I have often publicly explained and presented, you know. This is an opinion of the SPÖ, I represent, because I am convinced that it is correct, but mass tax increases were actually – except in your speech – nothing to hear in our working groups. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Haubner.]] I have already given the answer to question 7 with the reference to the expert hearings. Question 8: No change in the budget, for example, after the budget service – which has played a major role in the discussion anyway – has also noted other things here, such as experts from the various fields of the ministries or, for example, opinions that were made by the Wifo at the time. You can also read these, they were quite different. Of course, new economic forecasts, changes in key figures and their impact are taken into account. However, the budget cannot be completely rewritten every time, but there is simply – and that is the reason – if we decide on the budget for 2014 or 2014 for 2015 a deviation to the preview, because reality is simply different. And to make a giant hole and a disinformation each time out of a deviation is therefore insidious. Questions 9 and 10: Forecasts are being prepared in each quarter. We make a budget once a year for the following year and once a year a framework for the next four years. The most recent forecasts for 2014 and 2015 were made by Wifo on 4 July 2015. ==References== The medium-term forecast for 2018 was transmitted to the Ministry of Finance by Wifo in mid-October. In the second half of November, the OECD and the European Commission also made forecasts for 2014 and 2015. If you have carefully looked at these and read them, you will have noticed that they differ considerably in part from each other. It is by no means that the forecasts themselves for 2014/2015 are in full agreement, so you can always use the corresponding ones for your speeches as necessary and determine a deviation. That's easy. It is only necessary to draw up the forecasts, then one sees that there exists a variety of assumptions and different risk estimates. Questions 11 to 13: The interest rates for Austrian government bonds – which is the question of the impact on our credit quality – are at a historically low level. [[Abg. Kickl: Just like the interest rates at all! Does that have something to do with each other, right?]] Today's date: 2.07 percent on ten-year-old federal bonds. [[Abg. Kickl: Where are the savings interest rates on a historic peak?]] According to information from the BMF, in 2010 we paid €2.3 billion less interest – less interest paid! – when the estimate was budgeted. 2011: € 940 million less. 2012: €1.3 billion less. So don't always talk bad about the country! See how we are assessed and how this is quite clear in the budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Today, we are also on the agenda – as are clear statements from the Ministry of Finance. So: good for Austria, bad for your arguments. We're on the plan this year too. Questions 14 to 19: Based on the economic forecasts of the Wifo and the BMF's tax estimates, for the next five years – by 2018 – on the basis of these estimates – with the bandwidths and risks, as I have described them now, I believe, a deviation from the previous path of € 18.4 billion structurally. This method of operation corresponds to the process of the past years. Questions 20 to 23: Expenditure on economic and labour market stabilisation and the stabilisation of the banking system are expected. To the bank package itself: The Federal Ministry of Finance and the task force appointed by the Heads of Government to do so work in agreement with the Austrian National Bank, the FMA and the FIMBAG to minimise the burden on taxpayers. And, according to the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance, and on the basis of this data, a total of €5.8 billion was spent by 2018 on possible further expenses for the national banks. On the question of saving: Each of us has made it clear before the election how it is with savings in the administration. These are proposals that can also be implemented. It is not all the Court of Auditors' proposals that are quantified financially, but it always goes towards a kind of myth, which it is supposed to mean, and there everyone has his own kind of accounting. I don't want to talk about this kind of variation. In fact, however, the proposals that exist – from control bodies or from ourselves, from our experts, from our responsible employees – require that at the beginning of a legislative period, we take a very close look at administrative expenditure very closely. We have a great task in front of us, especially since we cannot give everyone the right thing in this area. It's impossible for everyone to do it properly. In this respect, it always concerns a citizen or a citizen, because administrative reform also concerns people, namely those who work there in the public sector. Saving double track, subsidies and promotions also affects anyone. In this respect, it is right that a reform, as the Court of Auditors also addresses and as it is discussed here again and again in the House, of course knows those affected. But – and that is important to us! – we are convinced that at the beginning of a legislative period, this saving and this approach to taking a very transparent look at double-tracks, subsidies and promotions is necessary. That is why the administrative reform is indeed a task that will now take on a very central role at the beginning of a legislative period when we come to a declaration of government in this House. That is necessary and correct. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] On questions 27 to 29 and 33 to 35, which are very serious about the state of the government negotiations, the tax reform to which I have already said something, but also detailed issues from individual areas such as family aid or individual auditing claims to specific police posts, the following must be noted: The outcome of government negotiations should only be presented if it is available. Until then, these issues are still under negotiation, and if we reach a positive conclusion, we will, of course, not only introduce them, but discuss them in just as detailed as is rightly planned. [[Abg. Kickl: Really?]] I already know: no matter what reform we introduce to you, from your point of view it will be quite wrong, and you will say again that Austria will be heading towards state bankruptcy and you will be the first – but you will not be the first and Austria will not head towards state bankruptcy even in the next elections! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: But neither!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: You can wish for it, Christmas is on 24!]] – This time, however, we have already become the first, Mrs. Deputies! I'm sorry. Question 30: The current Financial Balance Act is valid until the end of 2014. After that, a tracking must be carried out. On the question 31 – rising unemployment, leading to lower incomes in social security funds as well as in wage tax and additional expenditure in the field of labour market promotion and unemployment insurance –: This point is also to be answered accordingly. The impact of rising unemployment is straining, and the fight against unemployment is therefore a priority from a budgetary point of view. It is not done by moving someone from the field of pensions to unemployment statistics or vice versa. This is not the task of a government, but the task of a government is to increase the actual retirement age and to put in place measures to prevent unemployment according to the possibilities of a European policy and to deliver better results than in other countries – and Austria really has a lot to show there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Honest? Theoretically, you know it. In practice hepert’s!]] On question 32 – Stop at the public service: Decision of the Council of Ministers 2012 –: A recording stop for federal officials was decided by the end of 2014, except – as you know – teachers, executives, judges, prosecutors et cetera. On questions 36 and 37 concerning the so-called luxury pensions. ==References====External links== In November of this year, it has decided that there will be a re-regulation in relation to above-average remunerations and pensions of public officials. This Decision lays down that until 31. January 2014 to be sent to the National Council of Government. Negotiations are also needed in this area, where two-thirds of the majority can be achieved. I count on your support for this because, I believe, it is a common concern. On questions 38 and 39: In February 2013, a draft Constitutional Act was introduced which provides for a uniform accounting system for countries and communities and the obligation to provide prudent financial support. At the moment, we have not received any approval from either the FPÖ or the Greens, but I am convinced that there should be a common interest, both in terms of a uniform accounting system and in terms of transparency, which subsidies and subsidies exist in our country, of institutions of the federal, state and local authorities, in deciding to do so jointly. [[Abg. Dr Pirklhuber: Strengthen Parliament's control rights! Where is the proposal, Mr. Bundeskanzler?]] – Yes, but, Mr Commissioner, you cannot say now, just because we still have a discussion on control rights, you are not for a transparent administration! I believe that one must also be able to discuss a subject for one’s own sake, and especially when it comes to control rights, i.e. the question of what is going on with the tax money, such a uniform approach would be necessary. [[Abg. May. Kogler: It was only about loyalty to the contract!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: So much about promises that are broken! Broken promises, we already have enough of that! It's a constant! Breaking every promise is a constant!]] Question 40, last question: From January 2014, the automatic budget commission will develop its effect. A regular budget for 2014 is to be agreed in the framework of the government negotiations. I am convinced that this will lead to a great deal in Parliament, but, as I hope, there will also be an objective discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e3014	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e3064	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor, I have to let you down at the beginning. It was not my laughter at the beginning of your remarks, which was artificial, but the only thing that had been mastered in the last 40 minutes was your supposed sense of responsibility and your supposed competence, which you have chosen from the government bank behind me. This is artificial – from the first to the last word! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We can therefore see – I believe the opposition will be certain – that we have not only a budget hole in Austria but also a competence hole in the form of this federal government behind me on the government bank. Three tombs of the SPÖ are sitting there already well-folded next to each other. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's not that we don't like to help you when it comes to rehabilitating the budget or saving it. For the time being, I am putting a sentence in your heart that I have from my grandmother – a simple woman who could have taught you a lot. She always said: Better guard than cure! – Translated for you: Better to prevent and prevent something at times than then to repair a expensive damage for a lot of money afterwards – because that is the method by which you approach things in principle. It would be a great opportunity to apply this principle once, in connection with the forthcoming further opening of the Austrian labour market. I therefore make the following request from the point of view of this prevention, and from the point of view of the general need for economy and the dramatic situation to which we are referring on the Austrian labour market, with a record number of unemployed people you cannot simply discuss away and, in view of which you cannot pretend that it would not be possible: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There you could really show, especially the ladies and gentlemen from the trade union group, instead of staring around, that you are concerned about the workers in this country. I have also tabled this request because I hear again and again that the opposition and the liberals do not make any proposals. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: So a suggestion hole!]] I am not responding now to the hundreds of requests we have made in the various committees. I'm not a ruminant. If you are looking for cattle, you will not be found in the Liberal Group. That's where you have to look elsewhere. I am therefore not going to chew this again, but these proposals are contained in the committees. The only way you deal with it, however, is to close your eyes, keep your ears shut, and simply wipe the requests of the liberals from the table. If you see this as a contribution to a common approach to the future, you are, I think, in a misaligned state. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to approach this whole subject in principle today. Maybe you will also understand a little better from ÖVP and SPÖ, why we are You've been trying to get here for the second time today. I now ask you, Mr Schieder, because you are always speaking – but I can also ask the Federal Chancellor: What would happen? For example, you think of a doctor who explains to the relatives of a patient who has just died, you know, you don't need to worry at all, the patient is not dead, he's just dead? [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: May I not speak? Is that bothering you? It’s called “debate! ” Is it not possible to make a statement?]] I don't know what you'd expect from such a doctor now. You can give me the answer. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: No, I don't give you an answer at all!]] I don't know what you'd think of someone coming here as a nudist and telling you: You know, FKK has nothing to do with running around naked, it's just that you don't wear clothes. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: But this is a “lustier” comparison! A “very funny” comparison! You've been better before, Mr. Kickl! You've been more funny before!]] What would you think of such a man, Mr. Schieder? I'm curious about your answer, because that's exactly the way you're trying to explain to the Austrians that there's no such budget hole. I will then give you the examples. The people in Austria would probably drive the index finger towards the forehead and then start typing a little bit at regular intervals. I'm very careful, I don't even make it out now. Perhaps one or another would say that one cannot take this seriously and that such argumentation is somehow not credible in order to formulate it above all – and the Austrian population would be right if it did so. That's the point! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In view of these examples, I would like to ask myself: Yes, what a beautiful thing is that if someone in all the media, in interviews, on television, everywhere, in front of Parliament, in front of this republic – and now you can feel addressed, Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann – explains to people that there is no budget hole at all, the only thing we have is an unexpected savings of € 18.4 billion? – That's something completely different, isn't it? [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Come on. She's not planted there? I would appear to be planted in your place, Mr Financiary Secretary of State, even to the place where you are from the subject. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Arbitrator.]] Or what would you think of someone who then stands up – yes, Mr Faymann – and say that we have to save billions and we have to tighten the belt in the population, we have to do that, but the population will not feel it? What would happen? You like someone like that? [[New cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Do you know what that is? This is not even a budgetary policy based on the model ‘try and error’. If one is looking for a term for this, perhaps one would have to call it a "bunga-bunga" budget and financial policy – so that one can only live up to the seriousness of this effort. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I did not say these things out of my mind, but these are the compressed summaries of Faymann statements from the last days and weeks, on party days, in various interviews. This is not what I invented, but the Lord, who has explained behind me in full sense of responsibility and with full competence how things really behave. I don't draw any conclusions now, either, which could be derived from it. I am not taking a decision on this, I leave it to the people, otherwise I might run the risk of crossing the border to the call for order, and of course I have to point out once again that in this House we sometimes have the strange custom that not those who get the calls from this government bank behind me – I am saying: where there is still no lie detector – are mocking their own people, but that then usually those who call for an order that shows this abuse and this wrong game, which is carried out at the back of the population. – You might also need to think about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mein Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you an example to show what Mr Bundeskanzler's word is worth. He promised certain pensions – not even, not ten times, but a hundred times probably; sometimes we stopped counting. This is almost the fertiliser with which he still reaches the election results of the pensioners, this promise that the pensions are safe. Now let's see what the word "safe" means in connection with Mr Faymann's promise of pensions and what it means to have no sense of a savings package. Well, normal pensions were adjusted by 1 percent under official inflation alone this year – which is a hoon, “adapted”, 1 percent under inflation! Next year it will be 0.8 percent below inflation – “adapted”. What the hell is this?- Oh, my God! Do you know what this pension increase means for a normalpensionist? After 4 years, this normal-pensionist has recorded a minimum of € 1,000 on his account. These are the adjustments and the savings measures of the Faymann brand, of which there is no apparent sense in the population. These are the pensions that are safe – and “safe” means not only that they are not robbed, but that they are also valued somewhere. Nothing to keep from your promises! – And this is not the whole story, because you have introduced something else in 2010, namely the strange state of getting no inflation adjustment at all in the first year of retirement. That is to say, one stands once a year before it comes to the first adjustment, and this backpack of loss of value is taken with you, of course, year after year. The average pensioner – that is to say expert calculations, ladies and gentlemen – has lost €3,000 by this measure alone. So much on the subject of safe pensions and so much on the subject that the own population of all these savings measures does not feel anything. I come to the end, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, Federal Chancellor, you are a real expert, you are a grandmaster, I would like to say, in the banishment and denial of big gaps and big holes. At the budget we have to do with a hole of about €20 billion – in your CV it is 7 years. Don't think that's the real qualification that Austria needs in times like this!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e3234	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e3292	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e3313	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps we can return from the trip to the world of the "Bunga-Bunga" and from the nudist beach of Mr. Kickl to the financial reality, and perhaps we can just look at the numbers instead of making embarrassing attempts at funny comparisons. [[Abg. Kickl: This is your beach! You're the naughters!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The first view is that of the Austrian budget policy to assess it: What about the relationship between federal estimates, which is set on the basis of forecasts, and what has become reality in the budget? If we only take the last few years here: In 2010, we had planned 4.7 percent deficit in the estimate, it has become 4.5 percent, so less. [[Abg. Kickl: That's what we've heard!]] In 2011, we had 3.2 percent in the plan. [[Abg. Kickl: With or without new debt?]] – Mr Kickl, if you don’t understand this with debt, re-indebtedness and deficit, I’m sorry, but don’t always ask this question, which simply reveals that you have no idea! Your calls are a little sad! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, but then you say that if the fuel price increases, for example, you will pay more taxes!]] Perhaps you will also make a trip to the Budget Committee, where this will always be discussed very detailedly, and then you will learn and understand the difference between deficit, re-indebtedness and debt ratio. [[Abg. Kickl: Is that an invitation? Then I'll come!]] Back to the figures: 2011: 3.2 percent, it has become much less, i.e. only 2.5 percent. 2012 detto: 0.7 percentage points in turn. This is now an abstract number in the world of money, 2 billion budget execution better than planned. And for 2013 it will remain at least at the 2.3 percent deficit, if not significantly below. This is where you can see – you see, ladies and gentlemen, but also the people at home who may have asked themselves when reading the various articles, what is going on with the budget – that in Austria has been well budgeted and that in recent years it has always been seen that you are on the safe side and keep your budget. If you extend the comparison to other national economic data, you can also see: We are 0.4 percent in GDP growth for 2013, which is much less than we would have wished and predicted, but the Netherlands, which is very often classified as economically more successful than Austria, has a minus 1 percent growth rate. Next year, we expect 1.7 percent, while the Netherlands is only slightly 0.2 percent. As far as the unemployment rate is concerned, it is 5.1 per cent – that is far too much for us, I do not want to be beautiful about it – but it is still a much better value compared to the Netherlands, and I do not want to use Italy, which has an unemployment rate of 12 per cent. Even at the debt ratio – because it has always been quoted – we are below the value of the Netherlands at 74 percent. I also do not want to quote Italy, which has almost double the Austrian debt ratio at all. And even in the deficit, we are a whole percentage point better than the otherwise always as successful and rightly called Dutch. That means, in comparison, we see that we are relatively good. A view beyond our border of plates over the borders also shows us what Professor Dani Rodrik of Princeton University in New Jersey says about Austria, for example. He says, by the way, under the title “The Real Heroes of the Global Economy”, the true heroes of the world economy are such countries – and there he counts some, like Austria and Canada and Uruguay – who have managed to meet the challenge of economic growth not through exploding debt, but to combine and achieve economic growth, stable labour markets with budget consolidation. Mr Kickl, if you don't want to believe anything to the Chancellor – which is clear, because you stand at the FPÖ and the Federal Chancellor is from the SPÖ, and the game of opposition and government is always that you don't want to believe anything here – then you may once believe a professor of an American university who is very conscious of Austria here as a hero of the world in economic terms. [[Abg. Street: “Heal of the World ”!]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Bitch.]] – Yes, the word “hero” unfortunately means “hero”. I'm sorry if you don't want to take note of this translation. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's not what he means by Mr. Kickl!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Where is he, the Jarolim?]] But what are the risks? This too is addressed in an honest debate. Even if you don't want to be as uncertain as the FPÖ does, but just speak honestly, you say: Of course, the world economic crisis, the financial crisis still has its impact and is not over. That's why we have such weak growth. Weak economic growth also means less revenue, the risk of an increase in expenditure, particularly in the field of labour market policy. But Austrian domestic policy has still decided that the fight against unemployment is one of the central moments – because it is just because it helps people and because it also helps the budget. [[Abg. Kickl: What's that got to do with your lies?]] Being aware of these risks does not mean sitting down and saying that you can't change anything but means making policies that are there: Labour market policy, budget policy, economical economies, put on growth, put all these measures in such a way that we do not have the bad budget forecasts and poor economic forecasts, but rather we – as in the past – are much better. [[Abg. Kickl: What does this have to do with your fraud maneuver?]] Unfortunately, we have a risk – and this too cannot be kept to a standstill – which is, of course, the cost of the restructuring of the banking sector. Tag Hypo Alpe-Adria. But here you also have to say: We are at risk of a great financial risk here, because the Republic is responsible for the economic location of the faults made by Mr Kickl, the FPÖ in Carinthia – to base a bank, to destroy the national budget – because we have not made this mistake work, but have made sure that people have been finally protected from your responsible policy in Carinthia. [[Abg. Kickl: That screams after an investigation committee! Arbitrator is for this! Arbitrators for Investigation Committee! I'll take you by the word!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a risk, but also here a clear word: We, as Social Democrats, are first of all in favour of making this sharp cut and in the case of Hypo, creating a resolution unit, or whatever it takes, and we are also in favour of counter-financing in the form of bank charges, because it is not possible that the taxpayer and the budget will be burdened with this in the long term, but that this can also be done in the sector. In this sense, you can see from the international comparison, from the comparison between reality and forecast, that we not only have the challenges in mind, but also have in mind and are already working on developing the answers to the future challenges today. You can be sure that there is nothing wrong with the budget as long as social democrats will be in the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e3548	Mr Haubner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e3570	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr. Kickl, I hope your grandmother also said: Stay with the truth! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Yes! Yes! Yes! - Oh, my God!]] Let us look back at how the Freedom Party, before 2011, dramatized the opening of the labour market: There will be a million workers coming to Austria, you have heard from your side at that time. What is fact? – The fact is that 27 000 workers have come to Austria, workers who need the economy we need and who contribute to the success of the Austrian economy, ladies and gentlemen. That's the way it is. Ladies and gentlemen! I come from the economy, from the world of commercial care. If we, as representatives of the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, take responsibility for our employees daily, I will tell you: A careful budget belongs to the daily bread of every entrepreneur, and every responsible entrepreneur also takes care of the future. The government has also acted responsibly with this budget, ladies and gentlemen. We took care of the budget, and that was right and important. But we have also seen that the forecasts have unfortunately deteriorated, and this must also be taken into account in the budget. So our Finance Minister Maria Fekter responded responsibly to the changed situation. She even managed to make deposits. – Thank you many times, Mrs Finanzminister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Reserves?! Really? Responsibilities?]] Let us look at the budgets, ladies and gentlemen. It has already been said: In 2011 we cut off by 4.2 billion better than budgeted. In 2012 we cut off 2 billion better than budgeted. And the 2013 budget will also be met, and it will even be a little better than planned. You have to take note of that. You have to say that the budget implementation is going better. I think you have to recognize that, and you can't always criticize and whirl around it. You can check with the section head Steger. He'll confirm that to you, too. He will also confirm that the budget holds. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Then why are there differences in coalition negotiations?]] [[Call to the FPÖ: Why do you negotiate so long when everything is all right?]] So the figures prove it black on white that we are carefully dealing with taxpayers' money, that we are responding properly to the changed forecasts and that we are building up responsibly. We are building the budget on the safe side, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, a lot of the experts have already been talking about. But who else can we rely on than the experts? But we also need a forecast for the next five years so that we can also calculate the budget and know what we expect. It is, of course, difficult if the experts are always here by a certain percentage, and you always know how it would have been. That makes it difficult, of course. They know the IHS forecasts, which forecast a budget deficit of 1.5 percent of GDP in July of this year and predict that it would fall to 0.3 percent by 2016. It is similar with the WIFO forecasts. And, of course, there has been no evidence of severe budget deficits from both institutions after the election. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on the green and blue banks, we all know that Europe, the whole world and, of course, Austria are in a very difficult economic situation. It would certainly be appropriate to address the challenges together and not to stage themselves here in Parliament and to insure people. You throw half-truths around yourself, and you do not make a constructive contribution to a solution! [[Abg. Neubauer: You only need to agree to the request!]] How seriously you really mean it, you see: There was not a single proposal here today – not a single proposal! – I have to say quite honestly, but not a proposal for cover, just an analysis and by Mr Kickl’s inventiveness projects. That's easy. That's why you're making it too easy, my colleague. [[Abg. Kickl: As you do, everyone can!]] – What you understand from the finances is seen at the Carinthian hypo disaster. I don't think you should be sitting in the hypo-glass house yourself, throwing budget blocks here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Next one for a U committee!]] I think as far as the hypo is concerned, this is a difficult situation. There you should be careful not to play as a budget supervisor, although you have no competence here. [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible! – Hidden, but that won't help you! You're still coming with your ÖVP!]] We will still experience it with the greens. The Greens have not yet put forward a single proposal. The only thing we know is the conversion costs for the Mariahilfer Straße, ladies and gentlemen – and I think that's a little bit. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are completely free of any expertise!]] When nagging, you are undisputed the number one, but you have to watch out for the opposition creativity, because the NEOS party will make you relatively quick to dispute the position. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, of course we need measures. [[Abg. Kickl: What if everything fits?]] How can we master that? – First of all, it’s through sparingness, across all the resorts. Secondly, we need to strengthen our growth path – we agree – and we need incentives and impulses. And we need structural reforms. This, of course, also requires creative ideas, and there is a need for much more support, and we will also need a majority, a large majority in Parliament. We will, of course, come to you and then we will ask for what you have said today. When we talk about growth, I refer – and you also refer to it in your request – to the data on economic growth. An infrastructure such as the airport in Salzburg is also necessary for economic growth, which is indispensable in this regard. I am therefore pleased that we have been able to bring together a joint round of all six parties – it is if you want to! – and I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that this joint initiative strengthens the German Chancellor and the Federal Government and the Foreign Minister in their activities and, of course, also the Salzburg politicians in the talks with the German Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e3799	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e3891	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e3912	Madam President. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Health Minister and Mr Bundeskanzler! Now we have asked you to go to the house today so that we could have received some more transparency than last time from Mrs Fekter's Minister for Finance, but unfortunately this has not happened. Mr Haubner, please forgive us for constantly getting rid of this forecast problem. That's not the point at all. I mean, of course, you can argue about forecasts. There are different, and one enters and becomes reality. But it's something completely different in this discussion. The question is that an amount in a scale – and this is the banking hole – has been systematically pushed out from €9 to €15 billion over years until after the election. And that's the accusation! The core of the accusation of the hole and the lie is the bank package – and not the economic forecasts. I would like to see transparency. [[Congratulations with the Greens and MEPs from NEOS-LIF.]] These are ranges of 3 to 5 percent of gross domestic product higher government debt ratio. Now your side and also the side of SPÖ's Clubobmann are exclusively argued with the comparison of estimate and success of recent years. But the core is – and this has deeply perceived the population –: It was about being able to lead the elections in a very rusty environment and to simply push away this dimension – and that was not a prognosis, but it was simply and gripping the reality of this bank package. We would have liked to see the honesty that comes from your side the seriousness and honesty to say: Yes, it was. We have not transparently guaranteed the insight into the budget. – But you have unfortunately missed that today, and I think that is very unfortunate. As a result of this cover-up, this move will continue to produce damage. Until today, it is not known how the hypo-Alpe-Adria actually works – and every hour, every minute, every day, every week, the clock runs in this regard. The Germans did this quite differently, Mrs. Finanzminister! From the first day on, they paid off the risk, organized from the first day to the settlement and thus saved the Federal Republic of Germany damage. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of NEOS-LIF.]] You will be responsible for damage in the dimension of € 1 billion this year alone. And that's the problem. It is a question of fairness, of fundamental reliability, of basic trust. I quote from today’s issue of the “Small Newspaper”: “The budgetary truth is simply that it has been lied, will and will.” This is the sensitivity of the population. That brings it very precisely to the point. Mr Bundeskanzler, what we wanted to know about you today: It may be that the proposal of the Federal Financial Framework Act introduced in Parliament, which was previously presented in the Council of Ministers and which was also adopted in the Council of Ministers, was adopted on 16 November. April 2013, was systematically beautiful? In this design, the Hypo Alpe-Adria was set at € 113 million. ==References== In October 2011, FIMBAG's Deputy Supervisory Board Chief – that is the Federal Participation Company in the national banks – announced that the Hypo Alpe-Adria Group would cost a further €4 billion. In March 2012 the reports of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank will then come to the attention of €5 to €10 billion. Then, a month later, there is a hypo-internal paper coming to the public. Then a task force will be used by the government itself to negotiate with the Commission, where one then comes to the order of magnitude, which is now actually admitted. Then, in April of this year, to present a draft budget to the National Council, a federal budget framework that provides € 113 million – this cannot be described as a lie. We would have liked to know very clearly: What did you know when? This is about transparency and fairness and the basic trust of the people – not just about us as members of the national council, but about knowing the public who has a right to know what has been kept silent and what comes to them. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of NEOS-LIF.]] That is why we have had no choice but to prepare a ministerial loan – and we did so first in our history, namely, against the then head of state Jörg Haider concerning the town boards – against the Minister of Finance Fekter. It is based on two very specific points. One is Article 51(1). 8 Federal Constitutional Law, namely the principle of the most faithful presentation of the federal financial situation, and the other the simple legal obligation to do so. And both breaks do not leave us any choice but to bring this action because, at least, substantial deviations from the previous federal financial framework have to be adapted. These are very, very clear orders. Faithful budget presentation, faithful presentation of the federal financial situation and also the requirements for adjustment, these are very, very clear legal claims to the Minister of Finance, but not only to her alone, but to the entire Federal Government. We have brought in this ministerial anchorage today. In the sense of a cleaning process, including in the sense of restoring confidence in the population, it would also be to admit that mistakes have occurred here, that something has actually happened wrong here, which must no longer be repeated, that this request is discussed very, very seriously also in the Budget Committee. You know, the worst loss is the loss of office and the loss of political rights, but it can only be found at least that there has actually been a breach of law and a breach of constitution. Here we wish for a very serious discussion, also in the sense of restoring confidence in the Austrian population. I would like to share the following with you for the government negotiations, because you are afraid, and here I quote Werner Schneyder from today’s “Small Newspaper”: “They all ask the fearsome question: Will the new government be under the Christ tree? And if so, will she be able to get up too?" [[Cheerfulness to representatives of Greens and FPÖ.]] That's a good point! I would also like to put lattes for this uprising. The last savings packages, you know, the reduction packages that have trained large population groups, especially young people in education, people with studying children, multiple-child families. To say that the population won't feel that, that reminds me – and I don't want to be polemic – a little about the dentist. He always says: Mrs. Glavischnig, you won't feel it, it won't hurt! - And it's not true. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: I’ve never felt anything at the dentist!]] I have a great dentist, but I always feel something, and it always hurts a little. - Wurst. There can be no sense of these measures. But if that's true that you don't feel it, then we've just admitted 18 billion inefficiency, cumulated in the next few years, in the Austrian federal administration. And it can't be, can it? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And one last thing: I heard out today – we still do not have a written document; perhaps it would be possible to write such a thing as a case crash; it is, as I said, not only about us, but about the public, and it would be appropriate to make it transparent once – the financial transaction tax was no longer stopped for 2014; obviously, for the next few years. But then I would like a little more defense against torpedoing such an important instrument at European level than simply saying: It's an important project, we're for it anyway! There must be really sharp initiatives on the part of the Austrian Federal Government and of you as Chancellor in Europe to save this project. The minimum would be, at least to follow what the Germans have cried in their coalition agreement, the minimum! I would like and expect serious fighting and not just no defense. Perhaps at Christmas we have a government, perhaps not, but please work to ensure that it is not one that lies but the one that is on the essential issues of the future – and that it is not about the state of red and black, not about the souls of red and black parties, but about the problems of the people in this country – that we also have solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e3990	Mr Stronach is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e4011	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen! I am here today, but I do not want to speak as a politician, but I would like to present good ideas, because I am very concerned about the economy in Austria. [[Complaints and bravaders at SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] I always say, If the economy doesn't work, nothing works! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Today is the day we talk about the big gap in the 2013 budget. The expenditure amounted to around 74 billion euros and revenue was 67 billion euros. That is, there is a gap, a deficit of €7 billion. – That’s the one side, very objective. We also need to understand that our debts already account for 234 billion, and we also pay interest. And if you calculate the interest rates that the communities and countries have to pay, that's already 10 billion. We also need to take into account the commitments of the Hypobank, the Oesterreichische Control Bank, the Austrian Volksbanken. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: But the control bank is not! There's something confused.]] These are commitments, which can be found objectively, and there is no need to debate them here. I think that there are facts-related data that can prove this. But in any case, it is important that we look into the future. How can we achieve a balanced budget, a surplus in order to be able to repay the debt slowly? – I think we could already take measures to achieve a balanced budget. We all say it's very important that we reduce administration. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] However, I would like to suggest more. Perhaps we could, for example, reduce the compulsory contributions of the various chambers by 20 per cent per year. [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] I am not saying that the Chambers should be abolished if the Chambers are able to perform a good service and prove that they are useful and can compete with other institutions, but it would once be a start if one could also call the Chambers to account and thus also determine a reduction in administration. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Yes, but who has any of that?]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Entrepreneurs, for example!]] Then it is also very important that we look at our tax laws. For me, it is very surprising that we make no difference between companies investing in Austria and companies investing abroad. They all pay the same taxes. My proposal would be that companies investing their profits in Austria pay only 10 percent taxes, and the other 10 percent could pass them on to the workers. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The companies that invest their profits abroad should pay full taxes and no longer be able to write off their losses abroad against profits here in Austria. [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] That would have several consequences. Firstly, if we simplify the chamber system, it would be very useful for the economy. We all know that is very complicated in Austria. If we motivate the workers with this tax incentive, we are more competitive. We could reduce imports, increase exports, and I think then we could prove that Austria is a good place to invest in this world. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We are – whether we want it or not – exposed to global economic competition. Recalling the figures once again: GDP, gross domestic product, 2012: 307 billion; debt: total €234 billion; budget: 74 billion expenditure, 67 billion revenue, a deficit of 7 billion; Commitments of the countries and municipalities: about 10 billion; Commitments of banks: 20 billion and our net contributions to the EU: about 500 million €. – That must give us some thought! We must deal with this very objectively and adopt measures. I have already made proposals: The companies that invest their profits in Austria could pay only 10 percent of taxes, the other part could be passed on to the workers, then the workers would have more money, this would stimulate consumption, and the whole would boost the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e4117	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz has also spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e4139	Madam President. Government members! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens here on the galleries, at home in front of the screens! My praised word of appreciation goes to the Minister of Social Affairs today. He has taken a concrete step on a side-front that goes in the right direction. We had a meeting today, at which he presented the plans specifically, as we are moving forward in the reduction of pension privileges, in the luxury pensions. This is going in the right direction, and we will also support you and keep the pressure up. [[Congratulation with NEOS-LIF.]] Minister! Dear members of the government! We will need many such small steps; and this not only on side fronts, we will also need them in the major areas. One thing is clear, that's the starting point: In the history books 2030, Mr. Bundeskanzler, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you have won the 2013 National Council elections on the basis of a comprehensive suffrage. This will be so in the history books, that we can't change anything else. Of course, what interests me is, especially as the question of guilt has been clarified: What do we do, how do we continue? [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: A biterl presumptuous is already! A biterl presumptuous!]] How do we continue? - I'll stay on the pension theme. You have a hole of 8.5 billion in the pension area. 8.5 billion – 8.6 billion, apologies, yes, is not true, I want to be precise. [[Abg. Neubauer: That's not true!]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: 8.7!]] 8.7 billion, it will be constantly more. [[Calls: Who offers more? May’s be a bit more]] This is more than the budget we have in Austria for 1.2 million students. This is a huge sum, and if young people sit up there on the galleries then they will naturally think of their part on the topic of pensions. This was already clear before the election, and we have already shown how to find solutions here. First: Pension automation. Let's do this, as a matter of urgency, other countries have it. Let's be brave. Let's do it, too. Secondly, a total change from the pension system to a flexipension model. The Swedish model leads to a retirement age of 64 years, not 58, as in Austria, but 64. Mr Bundeskanzler, if we had a retirement age as in Sweden, you would have a budget surplus every year in the next few years – a budget surplus every year! That would not be good, because then you would no longer have to make reforms in other areas, but we also urgently need them, but one thing is clear: If we don't start this journey in the pension system soon, we won't create it anymore, then we won't create a single fit pension system, and then the young people – and that's what we all have to count among 45-year-olds – will look through our fingers. They will receive a very modest public pension, from which they will have nothing but poverty of old. Of course, it is about single-fit social systems, but it also needs reforms – and we also want to work together – in many other areas. Federalism reform. – Of course, we finally give the federal states financial responsibility, they have to feel! No political level is felt if it does not itself collect money. We see this from the fact that the EU lacks a little sense, but of course also the countries. We have “sought ” 1.8 billion in Salzburg. No one knew: If we've spent it, we haven't spent it, if so, where? - It can't be. The countries must feel, therefore: Tax liability for the federal states! Federalism reform as a whole, health reform, Mr Health Minister, also has to do with the federal states – quite a lot of issues to be voted on. A first step has been taken, but of course this is also a small step that is not enough. We need transparency and cuts in all the support regimes. These are big-scale feeding regimes. This is almost in the area of structural corruption, as we are doing in Austria in promoting policy. We need to make this transparent, and if it is twice as high as in the EU average, then of course the dog is buried somewhere. We have developed a lot of plans for a new Austria. I'll give this to you in the coalition negotiations, dear Federal Government. [[Keeping up to date a brochure entitled “Plan for a New Austria”]] 150 000 hours we have volunteered with citizens of this country, and thousands of citizens have worked on it. I brought four pieces for each one so you wouldn't start fighting. These are plans for a new Austria, from which you can get suggestions for coalition negotiations. [[The speaker presents one of the previously mentioned brochures to Federal Minister Stöger, State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer, Federal Chancellor Faymann and State Secretary.]] It's clear: If you once again say that we are making a great coalition to implement major reforms, and you are not bringing about major reforms, then you would have lost any claim to this coalition. [[Abg. Wheelers: Then we ask you!]] Yeah, then ask us. I want to put that to your heart too, consider other variants! I was in London on the weekend and spoke to Members from Norway, among other things. That was exciting. There is a minority government in Norway, and this minority government in Norway has concluded thematic alliances with various opposition parties. Federal Chancellor! NEOS – the New Austria and Liberal Forum – is ready for this process. [[Congratulation with NEOS-LIF.]] We can imagine we're doing this. Mr Vice-Kanzler, we can imagine that with you and other benevolent forces in this House we are bringing about a reform in the pension area. Mr Bundeskanzler, we can imagine that we are doing something with you in the field of education! If you are not doing anything as a so-called big coalition, you have at least the courage – if you are not prepared to call new elections – to go to a minority government with a right to reform! In the meantime, three, four, three, four, three, four, three, four, three, four, four. Order has taken place as an unarmed big coalition – the last of this form, even that will be in the history books, the last exit of the red-black power cartel, then it is over. So we can go ahead and make something of it. Of course, it also needs signals from us as parliamentary parties here in the house for courageous solutions. It seems to me to be important – I still need my two requests, which I want to read briefly, one of my colleagues can bring them to me. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: I've never heard such a fool before!]] I would like to make two more motions for resolutions on party financing. They know that in Austria there is the highest party funding in Europe. Last year, a little bit was put on top of party funding, and it is very important that we get away from this party financing model in Austria. In one of our motions for resolutions, on which we will also vote at once, we demand that we reduce the maximum limit for electoral campaigns by 10 percent. This takes the burden of expenditure from the parties. In another proposal, we would ask you to vote in favour of suspending valorisation, index adjustment, inflation adjustment of party funding for five years. This gave us 50 million in the years 2015 to 2019. This is a small contribution and a signal to the citizens that we have understood that every area, including the parties, has to make a contribution. I therefore make the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you to support this. Do you have courage to take a step further in this matter too! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e4310	The two motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e4404	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e4425	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, there is no doubt that the forecasts have not been kept – that is why they are also called “prognosis” and not “facts”, that is perfectly clear – but what you have to keep and what you have to do. In my opinion, you have made quite aware of the fact that you have not taken the current figures as the basis for drawing up this 2014 financial framework by 2017! That is exactly what leads to you already having a hole of 5 billion in the first year of this financial framework, just because of two facts. They have adopted economic growth as in 2012, as it was about the 2013 to 2016 financial framework, and have not changed these figures. You have not changed the figures for economic growth and you have not changed the unemployment figures, although at the time of the preparation of this financial framework it was clear that economic growth in 2013 will not reach almost 1 percent, but only 0.6, 0.5, in the meantime will be 0.4. As far as unemployment is concerned, you would not have needed any forecasts of the WIFO or the IHS, since you should only have listened to your Minister for Social Affairs. He said quite clearly at the beginning of the year – he was so honest – that the unemployment rate will continue to rise by the end of 2013 and also in the first half of 2014. This has led to the creation of this hole in the first year of this financial framework. You have known that – and consciously not changed anything to make in the election campaign the To let you sound familiar election sounds: In 2016, because we are so good, we are balanced in the budget and can talk about a tax reform! – With this, you have deliberately led the people astray, you simply have to blame! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Schieder, you are referring to the budget implementation of recent years. Yes, please see why the budget execution of recent years has been better than the estimate! – Because you have excluded the population, starting from small businesses to the pensioners! I'll tell you why. The revenue has been considerably higher each year than in the budget estimate. I'm just going to give you one example. Let us remember that the fuel price has risen permanently in recent years. Whatever the increase, of course, is the VAT which is added to the NOVA. That means a tax on the tax. Every time the trade union negotiations with each section on wage increases, the Minister of Finance always collects at least 50 percent, if not more. With all wage increases, you have managed to increase the financial income in such a way. This year we have the first time in the Second Republic that government revenue from income and wages tax will be higher than the revenue from VAT. This clearly shows two things: They have deliberately excluded the population over the last five years, we are a top tax country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, you have not noticed – and this is a reason for this hole in the financial framework – that the purchasing power is no longer right. If the union attaches itself to the flags, we must increase the wage increase at least by the rate of inflation, then that is the next shame. You know, the inflation rate is net! Or are you going to buy with your gross salary? The inflation rate is net – and all wage increases you negotiate are gross. There's only half left, be so honest at last! [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: That's where you misunderstand!]] Now we come to the pensioners: They give the pensioners say and write 1.6% next year. You know very well that at the shopping cart, at the weekly shopping cart – and what does the ordinary citizen, the pensioner?, he needs something to eat, drink, he needs an apartment and energy – the price increase is more than 5 percent. And then you give the pensioner 1.6 percent and wonder that the purchasing power in our country is no longer right?- Oh, my God! Think about it at last! This is a perfect mistake. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because of the fact that you treat the pensioners so badly, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e4514	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e4596	Next speaker: Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e4618	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! I believe it is important that we return to what really interests the people. [[Abg. New builder: The truth!]] She is interested in solutions and not in various number games that have been put on the table today in the last two hours by parts of the opposition, without the Federal Government, which is now currently in coalition negotiations, giving the opportunity to present something that the economic researchers have now changed with their forecasts – admittedly quite in a range. We would like this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen! It is irrelevant for women and men in this country who want solutions and see what has happened over the past five years, namely that we have managed the tanker Austria well through these difficult times. You need a solution before Christmas. That's what we're working on, and I'm asking that we get this chance. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wheeler.]] What does that mean? – Of course, it is about dealing with these changed conditions, ladies and gentlemen. That's quite clear. We are aggressively trying to do so day after day – and we could do so now if not the opposition had offered us here to speak and answer – that we quickly come to a coalition agreement, which will also take account of the budgetary situation next year. That's exactly what we're working on day after day. It is about the fact that, as social democrats and social democrats, we are particularly concerned about those parts of the population, and especially those who do not have such an easy time. In this balance, we are also trying to bring our issues into the coalition negotiations. This has not worked so badly in the last five years, otherwise we would have on 29 October. We did not have the results we have on September, and otherwise we would not have received the government order. That's why in the next five years – as in the past five years – it's enough time for us to bring together our ideas here in the House. I can also tell you that in the last five years as a women's minister, I have not always been able to unite all women's speakers in such a way that we could implement issues together. That is, if we take each other very seriously if we want to bring something forward for women in this country together, then I have already missed some time that this also happens together. These were not big things, but small symbols that had great effect – they did not succeed. I can also say, however, that in the last five years of the public service, for which I am responsible, the Federal Government, as the largest service provider of this country, has saved many administrative planning posts. The exceptions have already been mentioned by Mr Bundeskanzler and others; they are also important: It's about security, it's about education. We also stand for these exceptions. It is true, however, that we have thousands of plantations saved, and of course, the administrative reform – which takes place every year and which is not only limited to this large throw that is always being addressed – will continue. We are well aware that efficient, slender structures with fewer staff are more challenging for employees, but yet to be overcome. In Berlin, the Trade Fair of Modern State is now taking place, and we know that we can rise there as an Austrian administration, we know that we are also well equipped for the future with the measures we have put in place. What we want for the public service, of course, we also want to be prepared for the general population: to be prepared over the next five years, with the budgetary challenges that are actually there – that is not a question – with a moderate handling of how we make savings without having to suffer - and I repeat very consciously - large parts of the population under it. I am very proud that large parts of the population have also contributed to Austria's position as it stands. We can all stand up to this comparison. We didn't have to call anyone in the public sector to cancel. We have made big chunks together, and we have been able to prevent big things that would have been at risk. If you offer us the opportunity to present to you, ladies and gentlemen, first of all a coalition agreement, we will be able to work together for the next five years with many ideas that have been presented today. In view of these pre-conceptions, which have taken place here today, at a level similar to that of the same, I can only advise the citizens that, if they are watching the television debates, they are really listening carefully, who says what and what proposals someone is putting on the table so that we can work a lot more together in this republic for the next five years.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e4663	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e4685	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, many of the things you have said, I can only stress. I would just like you to be a little more appreciative with the public servants and especially with the teachers in a more appreciative way. I have now seen you a few times during discussions on radio broadcasting, also in private channels, and I would like you to thank the staff in the public service, too, because they contribute a lot to the success of the Republic and they also contribute a lot to the future of our children, for example as far as teachers are concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the points raised by the opposition today, for example, that we have made a cassage crash and thus have exposed so much that we knew before the election that the forecasts did not vote: Mrs Glawischnig, you will already have to leave this to us if we come together for government negotiations, that we consider what is possible in a package for the future at all! [[Abg. May. Kogler: That always goes without a constitutional majority?]] Mr Kogler, please excuse me. Anyone who has a package for the next years – and after all the legislative period lasts five years – will be able to sit down and see what we can afford for the next few years. This will be unacceptable to us if we come together for government negotiations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] On the prognosis and on what has been said today, quite honestly: The new ones sitting in here, the new political groups, said that in May 2013, when we decided on the 2014 to 2017 financial framework, we could very well read in the strategy report that the forecasts for the five years included deviations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] I mean, you can't always read the naked numbers, but of course you also have to read the other documents we get. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] We also have to face challenges. Whoever looks at the level of unemployment every month – and there we need not be pleased with God that we are still the best in the EU comparison – apologise, not better than Bangladesh, but better than all other European countries as far as unemployment is concerned. [[Call the FPÖ: Better than Bangladesh!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we do not need to rest on our laurels, because it will rise dramatically, and that is also the reason why the cry of the opposition does not bring anything at all today. People want us to return to higher expenditure on pensions, for better economic growth and for jobs. They want us to meet these challenges – and we do. This is a daily issue of government negotiations. This is also the reason why we agree that we need to increase the retirement age, the average retirement age, from now on 58,4 years towards the statutory retirement age. Because you, the Lord in the last row, laugh: [[towards FPÖ]] Can you tell me what proposals the FPÖ makes, how, for example, we could raise the actual retirement age? Or can you tell me what examples the FPÖ brings of how we could stimulate economic growth? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Or can you please tell me how the FPÖ intends to cope with unemployment in Austria? – I haven’t heard a single proposal yet. [[Abg. Ing. Countless!]] We are on our way in these areas every day with measures. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Are you today?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ: Is this your first speech?]] I'd like to say something to you: In the future, we need not only an increase in the actual retirement age, but also a participation of the economy. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Sunday speech again unboxed!]] The economy also has a social competence to highlight. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] We also need AMS consultants – listen to me, colleague! – who also convey 50-year-olds. Listen to me. A 50-year-old is considered unmedial today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] We must change that, and we will change that over the next few years. And we will see, Mr President, whether the FPÖ and also the Greens are obliged to join us if we are to create measures for economic growth and for more jobs in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervoke by Dr. Rosenkranz and Ing. Höbart.]] – Mr President, when you cry in all the time, no one hears this on the screens or in the live stream, so you can save yourself! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: even if we say something!]] The following can be said about the ministerial contribution: The Federal Minister has contributed a lot in recent years to the fact that tax revenue has come. I only recall the agreements with Switzerland and Liechtenstein. In here, the opposition laughed and said that it will never come. – We have already taken 700 million, we will create the billions or something more. I can assure you: If it had happened after you, today we would have a data cemetery that we could not need. So we have a billion, and that is the reason why we stand for the good work of the Minister for Finance and the Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e4863	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e4905	Madam President. Mr President, Pardon! [[Abg. Wöginger: No, is a Mr President!]] Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Mrs Tamandl, if you stand here and complain about the fact that there has been nothing going on in raising the actual retirement age, I would like to point out one thing: Since 1986 you have been a member of the government. – What have you done in the last 27 years? [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] The same also applies to public debt, deficits and the like. So this question has to be asked at this point before, this must be allowed. Mr Bundeskanzler, I agree with you on two points: on the one hand, with the financial transaction tax. – Yes, we want them too, we all want them, there are joint motions for resolutions, but I ask you what you have done in recent months to ensure that this financial transaction tax is actually implemented. What we are experiencing in the last few days and weeks is not just watering attempts, but we need to see how this financial transaction tax is carried to the grave. I therefore urge you to act urgently, together with the Minister for Finance. The second point I agree with is that in the last few years, budgetary policy has indeed not gone badly. The execution was better than the proposal. But what we – and this is already a scandal, Mr. Federal Chancellor – are talking about in the last few days and weeks, about this budget hole, which does not concern the past years, from 2010 to today, 2013, no, that concerns the years 2014 and the following. And once again you have missed it today and have not noticed the opportunity to explain to us and the population how this budget hole of €33 billion comes about on Maastricht basis or €18.4 billion on a structural basis. The story goes back to that 16. April, on which you submitted to the House the Federal Financial Framework 2014 to 2017. You have simply told us and the people the truth: as regards the tax estimates, the amount of the pension, and therefore the grant of pension insurance, and even not in relation to the hypo and banking disaster that we have to resolve in Austria, and which you, this Federal Government and in particular the Minister of Finance in recent years, have been responsible for, also that we do not have a solution to this bank today. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Or am I deceiving myself, Mr. Colleague? Is there already the establishment of a Bad Bank, or will, as in the report on the 2014 budget, become the case on 15 May 2014. In October the European Commission passed its position on the follow-up process? We know that every day delay costs taxpayers more money. In this situation, of course, the ministerial contribution has full authority. There was a breach of constitution! If it is claimed that we have a budget hole – the Minister of Finance is still convinced that there is no budget hole – I must ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler, one thing: How can you talk about us having a savings package that won't hurt anyone? You know what that reminds me of? – This reminds me of a poem by Schiller, the “diver”. And the king stood up, and turned to his men of knights, and to his servants, and said, “I throw down a golden cup,” and: “Who dares, Rittersmann or Knapp”, and so on. He is promised to keep the golden cup. And it's the same thing that happens to me: They obviously jumped down this black hole, into this budget hole, found the golden cup, and – pussy! – the 33 billion € are gone, enchanted! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] That's how easy it is! This is budget policy à la Faymann, à la ÖVP – but that can't be it! Mr. Federal Chancellor, I can only tell you one thing: Come to us in the next days when you will make the government statement here in this House, not with a savings package that affects the small people in this country, and do not come to us with a savings package that will put the cost of the bank solution on the small people in this country! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] They would not understand it, absolutely zero understanding. But what's the real hammer? – The real hammer is that you don’t care at all about what is currently the big problem in Europe: We need a new economic system in Europe. It cannot be that Europe as a whole is breaking down, and it cannot be attempted that all countries will be competitive as the Federal Republic of Germany! The latter can't happen, because that's a contradiction in itself, that's a zero sum game. It is simply not possible for all countries to have current account surpluses. I can't! And the OECD, the International Monetary Fund and everyone said: This cutback, this co-existence policy in all the countries of the European Union, and in particular the euro area, will not come out of the crisis! – And there is the real problem! Mr Bundeskanzler, stand up at European level for the end of this economic policy, this austerity policy! Fight They are the planned pact for competitiveness, which will bring all the countries into the position that will not lead us further! And by the way: Do your homework in the country! Take real steps to a federalism reform! If you said this today: Once again, it was rhetoric. Do that! I have heard this for decades and nothing has happened – in federalism reform, in administrative reform. Yes, make the announced tax reduction! This can also be done in a non-conventional way. Yes, stand by in this government! They are the population in the word with a tax reduction. - Yeah, you can do that. This is also recommended by the European Commission. This is recommended by the OECD. This is recommended by the International Monetary Fund. Yes, you will be active! One of the words of magic – but only one of the words of magic – in this context means higher taxation of assets. In Austria, 1% of households own 37 percent of total assets, 1 trillion €. Do something against tax fraud in Europe, Mr Bundeskanzler! 1 trillion € is on the street. You only have to collect this money, then there is enough money for investment, for the re-management of the economy, for the fight against unemployment and for a tax-structural reform that finally leads to a reduction in lower and lower incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e5007	The next word is Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e5028	Mr President. Mr Bundeskanzler, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the financial results that the Republic is now provoking, people feel betrayed. It is not surprising to mention first of all a budget deficit of €40 billion, which would have included all the elective promises, especially the increase in family support, which has not been increased since 2002 and where there has also been no adjustment to inflation. On the contrary: Inflation has actually eaten away the money for families. They have a loss of minus 25 percent. This is a clear and, in fact, a sad sign of what families are worth in this area. And the family as a germ cell of society, we say, must again enjoy a higher priority in society! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as by Dr. Strolz and Podgorschek.]] However, after the 40 billion in the budget was too high, it was soon spoken of as 30 billion according to Maastricht criteria. But that also seemed too high, because the pity of the voters was great. So one found a new word, a new definition, namely the “structural deficit”. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: It's not new!]] But the kind of representation does not reduce the actual savings requirement, not by a single euro. And if one already exists on this structural budget, our government politicians cannot even be proud of it, because even the Greeks make a surplus in the primary budget, that is, precisely in this structural budget. So our country is even worse in this respect than Greece. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Remember: In Greece too, everything has started with wrong figures. If our country is still being run so badly, we may not need to worry about whether SPÖ and ÖVP are getting together again to a coalition, because perhaps a troika comes right away and takes over the store. What I'd like to say: In any case, the actual deficit cannot be eliminated by creative rhetoric or by creative accounting. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In recent times, there has been a repeated statement that there is no shortage at all. But what about the incontrovertible deficit of €6.3 billion for 2013? This is not taken into account by the government at all, although of course new debts and interest payments have to be paid for this. So there are not 40 billion missing by 2018, but 40 billion more than assumed. If Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann says that he can save the amount of 24 billion painless, so without the citizens really feeling it, I naturally wonder: If that's so easy, why didn't you do that for the last five years? [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Another major problem with legal uncertainty is the fact that we do not have a uniform accounting system in Austria. Everyone calculates something around – the countries, the communities, the federal government – and everyone does it differently and best to store everything in other societies. Statistics Austria says that the communities are 3.5 billion hidden, and other experts speak of up to €10 billion. We call for an immediate harmonization of the budgetary law of all local authorities and have already requested this in Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] At the Financial Committee, I asked Mrs Fekter whether we could not have a uniform accounting system. And Mrs Fekter said she agreed, but the countries are blocking. And now, Mrs Finanzminister, I would like to ask you for leadership, because you have the opportunity, under the Financial Constitutional Act, to request a uniform accounting. They can adopt a regulation and simply put this Holy Blood agreement out of force, otherwise the countries will block. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Rädler: in Lower Austria!]] I am somewhat EU-critical in the current situation, but there is also a bit of a welcome report from the EU, and there are new statistical rules. From 2014 onwards, all outsourced debt must be included, i.e. in areas such as ÖBB, Bundesmobiliengesellschaft, all liabilities of public sector companies. This concerns especially the communities, and finally the trickery has an end. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. May. Loacker.]] However, what is less gratifying is that Standard & Poor’s have already predicted: If the government debt in Austria then increases to over 80 percent due to the inclusion of outsourced debt, it is likely that it will come to a downgrading. That's why we pay higher interest rates again, and of course that's what the taxpayer has to pay. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Percent Statistics Austria!]] At this point, I would like to address the issue of government bonds, which the Federal Chancellor mentioned earlier, namely that these are so great in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] First: Under Chancellor Faymann, Austria has lost its best bonus. We once had the same credit premium as Germany, and today we are far from it. On the contrary: Both the OECD and the International Monetary Fund warn Austria about the risky banking system. Secondly, The clients of government bonds are mainly European banks. State bonds do nothing but ensure that politicians can spend money, for which taxpayers then have to take the bill again that we will repay it. The rules are also such that the banks do not need equity for government bonds. And that's the problem: Instead of lending, banks prefer to buy government bonds. The ECB has reduced interest rates to a record depth, with the hope that the economy will be boosted. But in reality we are now in a credit line, because the banks are not giving money to the real economy, but buying government bonds. So I wouldn't stress the great government bonds that way. Before the election one spoke of tax reform and family benefits, after the election there is a savings package. But it seems to have already been used to it in a country where the red and black coalition is practically already enjoying monument protection. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. May. Loacker.]] It is not enough, however, to lament and point out the unresolved problems. I would like to be constructive and suggest that we finally start implementing the 599 reform proposals of the Court of Auditors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] We also need a reasonable federalism reform, which includes education and health in the federal government and which is designed as closely as possible at the national level as possible. Without countries there is simply nothing going on in Austria, so first of all we need a fundamental state reform. It also seems to me useful to give countries a certain degree of tax, because they are currently taking part in pockets that are miraculously filled by a foreign hand, and, of course, the sense of responsibility for money that one spends and for which one does not need to worry is little to no avail. So only with a reasonable federalism reform and unbundling of the competences will it be possible to save, otherwise there will be a new tax package instead of a savings package. We need to get out of this cycle of mismanagement, budget deficit and further debt, because debt always means a loss of freedom and sovereignty. We must be free again, we must not be so state-owned and we must see that we are taking measures to boost the economy. Only a free state can be a social state, which then takes care of the weakest in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e5161	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e5183	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs. Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek is not here now. I think it is a sign that you feel it is a sign that you must appear here today before the National Council, at this special meeting, instead of leading empathetic and zealous government negotiations. – Please, this is not a self-interest, it is not about our Members – ah, here you are, Mrs Federal Minister – but it is about us being the voice of the citizens who are openly planted here! [[in the direction of the just entering the hall. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes, sure!]] – Planted feel even before the election, and now even after the election. [[Congratulation with NEOS-LIF and greens.]] [[Call:Fortification]] Mrs. Dr. Nachbaur, you have rightly referred to the non-valorization of family aid. I have opened a stored website of the SPÖ today, and one can still read that the SPÖ has promised in the election campaign – thanks to God few sugars were given, but to family aid election sugars were given [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Cost-neutral dispute of tax benefits!]] You write: Children up to 15 years of age will receive 225 €, children from 15 years of age 240 € Family allowance per month. For children with disabilities, the fact is that this page is no longer available today, and we know that for 13 years the family allowance has not been valorised, whereas – and therefore our request today, which Matthias has presented – the promotion of the parties would very well be valorized. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Cost-neutral!]] Therefore our request, with the request to carry the widest possible, to suspend this valorization of fairness half! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Second point: It has already been said a lot about this conscious or at least very negligent suffrage regarding the budget hole, however it is called. I also see it as Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig did that the figures used are not the main problem. The main problem is actually a bird-strout policy, the head in the sand is stuck in front of this hypo disaster. That this was not foreseeable is either really negligent, evidence of dilettantism, or it is simply guilty, one simply wanted to deceive voters before the election. We will deal with this later, because, like the Stronach team, we have also submitted a request for an investigation committee. I would also like to remind you briefly of the opinion of Parliament's budgetary service on the financial framework, where there has already been considerable risks in implementing the financial framework, due to the increased need for bank support, in particular for the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank. The question we are going to discuss today is: Did this delay in a decision on a resolution structure result in a damage to taxpayers? – We believe: Yes, there's been a damage! [[Abg. Dr. Strolz: A big one!]] I would like to add one point that has not yet been raised. Today we have heard in the morning journal, in the corruption index of Transparency International Austria is only on 26. It's all right. I would like to remind you of my first speech here on an information freedom law, but I would also like to stress that Transparency International says that the effective criminal law fight against corruption is and falls down with the adequate human and professional equipment of the prosecutor's office and with its independence. Now I come to the point why I say this here and today: The fight against corruption is not only very, very important in Austria, but also has a national economic dimension. There is a study by the Johannes Kepler University of Linz, where it is listed that corruption causes a damage of €27 billion. I now quote from this study by Professor Friedrich Schneider, who says: “If it is possible to reduce corruption in Austria to the level “Switzerland in 2011” then the damage to the Austrian economy could amount to 6 billion. Euro () is reduced.” Schneider also says that this corruption significantly inhibits economic growth. Dear Federal Government! If, as you say, the budget hole is mainly based on the revision of economic forecasts in terms of growth, then here and now I make the request that we take a more effective and clear approach to corruption in Austria, in particular through the independence of justice. I would like to make the following request, which, as I was told earlier, also supports the Stronach team, which Dr. Nachbaur supports: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e5298	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Meinl-Reisinger is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e5353	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e5374	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! The truth is reasonable to the population! – I think this saying by Ingeborg Bachmann has more meaning and validity than ever. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The human being! It's a difference!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The budget hole we discussed two weeks ago is an invention of the ÖVP, as far as I remember, and not the opposition. If you ask people on the streets today, you will find out that they are ready to bring victims if they have some sustainability. But one thing has to be clear to us: The limits of the burdenability of the population are reached. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as by Dr. Nachbaur and Dr. Strolz.]] We cannot raise taxes or take taxes in addition, we need to think about how we relieve the population. We already have one of the highest in Europe with about 44 percent tax and tax burden. We should not think about how we can no longer get people out of the bag, but we must think about how we can give people back more money. The approach was quite correct when you say you reduce the entry tax rate to 25 percent, you increase the progression levels so that people have more money in their pockets so that they are less dependent on transfers. We need to get away from a socialist model and from socialist thinking! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The loss of purchasing power of people must be compensated! Today we have already heard in the debate, the family allowance has not been adjusted for years. We have gradually lost purchasing power since the introduction of the euro. We must take note of this! Therefore, there is only one way to go: We need to make our state slimmer! I said this two weeks ago: We still don't know what we want to be. Do we want to be a centralist state, or do we want to be a federalist state? The heads of state, and above all the heads of state from the East, are currently defining politics and not the federal politicians. In this dilemma the two parties are red and black, and there is finally this power relationship between the countries and the federal government escaped! This idea, which has already been discussed today, is quite welcome with a tax authority of the countries: The Heads of State should also take the money they spend on the people and not extortion the federal government through difficult negotiations by means of the financial compensation and thus get a lot of money out of it. There are plenty of examples where one can disband the federal/country relationship: whether it is in the health field – it cannot be that two hospitals are built at a national border – whether in the education sector, where the federal government pays the teachers and the countries are responsible for the organization. This goes even so far that you can say: Yes, do we even need national school council presidents? Is there not enough of a very simple civil servant who is located at the respective school staff? Do we need these representatives? - No, we don't need them! We need a uniform accounting system – and that has already been mentioned – and we must finally stop the double-tracking of subsidies. Yes, a transparency database has already been launched, but as always in Austria, we have been stuck half way and nothing has come out of it. The only thing to think about is closing posts, namely police posts. This is the easiest thing to do, but it is contrary to the security needs of our people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes I have the impression that red and black suffer from love-Augustin syndrome, which is according to the motto: “Money is gone, man is gone, everything is gone, Augustin./O, you dear Augustin, everything is gone.”
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e5456	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Podgorschek is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e5536	I would also like to point out that this request by 20 Members has been put to the vote on this request. The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies Hundstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e5563	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am, honestly, somewhat surprised – but it was no different to expect – that you come up with proposals, and reality looks quite different. They keep coming up with the Court of Auditors' proposals. If you were really interested in matter, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, then you would know that you yourself, as you are sitting here, have decided or rejected 16 proposals that concern my house and have caused the legislative changes that have already been there. Don't tell the population anything, a chimar! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: The Court of Auditors is from yesterday?- Oh, my God!]] Look You're looking at the reality of daily life, that would be better! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Member, I believe you are a lawyer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] I can then give you the list of what the Court of Auditors has proposed from the list of 599 my House, then you will see that everything has already happened. [[Abg. Neubauer: And how many applications have you postponed from us?]] What I postponed? – I also tell you what I have postponed! [[Abg. New builder: 1,500!]] – Not at all, because there are only 33 that concern me. [[Abg. New builder: Not you, everyone together!]] That's your problem once. - Point one. Point two: You should learn mathematics! [[Abg. New builder: But I don't need you to study mathematics!]] And the next thing you should take note of: What the Court of Auditors proposes is not, in part, the reality of life either, because I do not bring together the abolition of the federal states alone, and that is what the Court of Auditors has proposed to me four times. [[Call the FPÖ:But go, please!]] If that's... [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: So read with meaning I would read from a Federal Minister...!]] Look You're... [[Abg. Neubauer:... Federal Minister can't read meaningfully!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] If You'd really look at this! Look You will accept the proposals I have received for social assistance! Look You're looking at the proposals I've been given to carry out the care allowance! That actually means: Abolition of the federal states. That's your problem! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: This is the Voves, who wants to put everything together in the Styria!]] If you make yourself too and now say everything must be different: It is of course great to present here an application, which says: 1 200 € minimum board. – Is great, is not a question at all. [[Call the FPÖ:Bravo!]] I would also like to present him, but I have a sense of responsibility – unlike you. [[Abg. Neubauer: You have the minimum security for this!]] I have a sense of responsibility towards this republic, a sense of responsibility towards people! You know very well that you could never finance the €1,200, because you never put it exactly how you finance it. Don't scatter the sand into the eyes of man! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: No, no, the sand you need for the sandbags...!]] Come on. You're not here now, all at once, with so-called generation indices. Where's your suggestion for a baby index? Where's your suggestion for a young family index? Scattering You do not ask people to see sand in the eyes, where you know very well, the path you are taking is the breakdown of society and not the cohesion of society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: There is not even as much sand in Italy as you need!]] If you criticize the fact that two hospitals have been set up at a national border, I am here with you: I criticize it the same way. There is only one difference between us: The citizens' initiatives behind it have supported you and not me. That's the crucial difference! [[Congratulations and Ah-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] You're supposed to tell the truth, too. Here Vienna is criticized – this is of course a favorite topic, that is clear. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Oy!]] You can expect something at the next Vienna elections. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] For those ladies and gentlemen who do not come from Vienna, only to take note of this: The liberals have cut off very well in the National Council elections – with one exception. There is a state where they have nominal minuses, and that is Vienna. You're very happy to keep this from happening. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: And how much minus do you have in Vienna? You're the top candidate! ... bad result!]] Social democracy also has a minus – that is not a question either! – but you have also taken home a not weak minus in Vienna, because you also have to take note of one: The Vienna labour market is a growing, the Vienna labour market is not shrinking. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, the people beat themselves on the thighs!]] 800 728 people worked in Vienna at the beginning of November! 800 728! [[Abg. Neubauer: And how many are unemployed?]] Now we come to the issue of unemployed people. Of course, there is unemployment, but you know, for example, that in these 800 000 250 000 Lower Austrians, Steermarcs and Burgenländers – you know – are in it because we live in a common Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Where do they come from?]] [[==References====External links== Dr Hübner]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Because you haven't done anything to this day against the line!]] But we also live in a common Europe. – Tell the truth what you want! [[Abg. Neubauer: Do something against the finish line!]] Come on. It does not, therefore, contain a request which reads as follows: Limits close to Romania and Bulgaria! Tell the truth! [[Abg. New builder: Tell the truth!]] Close borders, out of the EU: That's what you really want! But then you also say this to the 220 000 Austrians who are commuting to Switzerland, who are commuting to the Federal Republic of Germany, that this is also over with what you want here. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What does Switzerland have to do with the EU?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Don't scatter the sand into the eyes of man! Tell people the truth: You want a shot-out Republic of Austria, you simply don't want a united Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Like Switzerland!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e5961	The next item is Mrs Jank's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e5983	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the visitor gallery and at home on the equipment! A Parliament is not here to dramatize something beautiful, but certainly not. I would like to briefly present to you the most recent OECD report of November 2013, the progress report on Austria. That's what it says: ‘A behavioural economic recovery has begun.’ “Growth draws its impulses from exports”. ‘The budgetary consolidation shall be in conformity with the objectives. Budget consolidation has progressed rapidly in recent years, and Austria is on the right track to achieve the medium-term objective of a structural deficit of 0.45% of GDP before the end of 2017.’ My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that is, the work done and the work done by the Government and the responsible Minister for Finance are excellent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We're right where the Path should lead to ensure that Austria is on the right path and is developed. Since this National Council is obviously majority – that is my impression of the first two plenary sessions I had the opportunity to take part in – limited to criticising what is not there and what could be better, I would like to make a contribution and show what is easy to implement, which is easy to implement, knowing that in the next few days there will be no financial room for funding to avoid endangering our budget target. I would like to do so on the basis of the medium-sized economy. The middle class is the carrier of our system, and this includes the employees in our companies. The medium-sized economy employs 1.8 million people. It accounts for 60 percent of the turnover and growth increase we have. The middle class is the carrier of our social model. We need to see prosperity and growth as guidelines. For their preservation, it is crucial that the productive forces in our country be strengthened. It should be taken into account that we are already a high tax country – this has already been mentioned several times. We have the sixth highest state ratio worldwide, we have the highest transfer rate by far in the European Union. I would like to make five points of our SME offensive. First of all: renew instead of tax. And I am speaking – I say it again – only points that do not require immediate funds, such as the tax declaration on one side – for small entrepreneurs this is a very essential requirement – or legal certainty on the issue of independence and independence in order to eliminate the insecurity in social security law. Secondly, less bureaucracy and more freedom for entrepreneurship through a noticeable reduction in the administrative burden for businesses and the adjustment of legislation in federal, regional and local authorities. Each new law must be subject to a bureaucratisation check and an employment check prior to its decision. In the fight against inflation, public fees are not to be valorised, but they have to be based solely on actual costs. A database of transparency – it has been addressed before – is necessary, especially in order to prevent the double promotions. However, our focus must also be on the development of our professionals. We therefore demand a mandatory potential analysis for all pupils and a professional information from the seventh level. We demand to force the teaching with Matura, and the establishment of a basic training “vocational orientation and professional guidance” for educators, because it is already in training to ensure that proper professional guidance is given. Economic knowledge and entrepreneurship are already to be forced in the public school. Language promotion is intended to make migrant – but not only migrant – young people fit for teaching. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, my speaking time is about to end. Let me also address the last two points, namely the point of growth and employment impulses and the point of improved corporate financing. On the point of growth and employment impulses: Labour law or working time flexibility is essential for us to be compatible as well. to ensure family and work. A mandatory location check for all laws is essential. Secondly, improving corporate financing with equity and equity financing, removing tax discrimination and simplifying the allocation of liabilities for the small and medium-sized economy and improving access to venture capital. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e6077	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. I'd give him the word. However, the word message is deleted? [[Abg. May. Kogler nodds.]] Mr Vetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e6104	Mr President. High house! People's mouth says there's nowhere to be lied as much as before the election, in court and after the hunt. So whoever follows the mouth of the people believes in the lie before the election. I believe, above all, that the government, with the figures now presented, wants to prepare us for the next wave of attack for the ownership of the citizen. Because we're gonna ask you: What was said before the election? Has anyone mentioned budget figures in the election campaign? So I can't remember that. The Federal Chancellor wanted a tax reform financed by property taxes, the Vice-Chancellor considered a tax reform to be an irresponsible election sugar. Who called for a tax reform without counter-financing in the campaign? [[Call:The Frank]] – No one, with a single exception: myself. I called for a tax reform under reference to the Laffer curve. Not because we have so much money, but rather because such a tax reform itself is financed and ultimately leads to more tax revenue, because the tax screw is simply too tight and simply too tight. More about it another time. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Specific budget figures haven't mentioned anyone in my memory. However – and this is the decisive – no one has contradicted the budget figures and forecasts published in the German Federal Law. According to § 12 of the Federal Budget Act, an annual federal financial framework law is to be adopted for the next four years, which, in accordance with § 13 of the Federal Budget Act, also has binding effect in certain limits. And now we realize that these budget figures in reality do not hold and a hole claps in double-digit billions. Somehow I feel about the criticism Egon Friedells an Joseph II. he reminded him of the invention of Austrian bureaucracy as that world wisdom, which assumes all that is given, which is written down somewhere. And where truth and reality disperse, for one thing philosophy and for the other the lie begins. Therefore, not a few believe that the mouth of the people is right with the words quoted at the outset: Nowhere is as much lied as before the election. But is that true? Is not the lie the knowledge of the truth, that is, the purpose? Is not the intention to be found here, as is so often done so easily in times of crisis? We will have to talk even more about the increasing misrelevance of the intention in post-civilization society in this legislative period. The figures in the Federal Financial Framework Act are always based on forecasts, but they were obviously too optimistic. Is that really surprising? If you look at the future forecasts of the government debt committee published in these reports since 1998 – since then they have been published – which had already been set up for four years, you immediately realize that the future deficit has always been far too optimistic. You can see the 1998, 1999, 2006, 2007: There is always only a deficit of 63 percent next year and four years later of 55, 56 percent. These figures have always been too optimistic! Can this really surprise you? – You just estimated the future unrealisticly. And what do you call that? – You just speculated and simply speculated. In the middle of the debt crisis, it has been done exactly what policy blames the supposedly crisis triggering financial markets: Politics has speculated. Another question we must ask ourselves: Who speculated? Was it the government? – Yes and no: It has provided the information for the Federal Financial Framework Act. And who decided? – Parliament has decided. So the legislator didn't tell you the truth? Has the predecessor been in the XXIV. Is the legislative period speculated? The real problem lies in the fact that the legislator with the Federal Budget Act is forced to adopt a federal financial framework law for four years with binding effect. This can virtually never correspond to reality, as the financial future in general cannot be an object of knowledge of the truth. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] By the way, I consider financial policy four- and five-year plans in law not only to be democratic political concerns, because they remind very much of various dictatorships of the past in their conception. These are plan economic approaches, which I do not believe have lost anything in a democracy. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Nachbaur.]] This is why, above all, I think that these four-year plans are missing because, in a democratic change of government, the next government is theoretically bound by the budgets of the previous government for four years. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Why? You can change it!]] This limits the possibility of political change from which democracy lives. We as opposition must actually be against these four-year plans, although we may benefit from them today. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: EU law!]] The Federal Financial Framework Act, with its well-intentional, unrealistic figures, has laid a rope around the neck, which hardly gives it any more air to breathe. As a lawmaker, one tries to show joy of injury: The legislator suffocates in his own regulatory will. It is like tens of thousands of businesses and hundreds of thousands of people in this country who are constantly suffering from the state's will to regulate. The teaching can only be with Tacitus: Where it is not necessary to pass a law, it is necessary not to pass a law. I'll get you together. Firstly, the government parties have speculated. Secondly, they have become victims of their own regulatory activity. Remember, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties when next time your policy, in particular your tax policy, is directed against your own people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e6197	The next item is the report by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e6246	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! Argentina did it. Orange County did it. Greece has done it several times in its history. What do a large South American country, an administrative district in California and one of our favorite holiday destinations in Europe have in common? [[Abg. New builder: Olympic Games!]] – All of you have already slid into insolvency. They have not been able to settle their debts anymore. They conducted negotiations with their creditors, and they finally had to agree to restructuring and partial loss of their claims. In Austria, the insolvency of a local body is not possible – it is said at least. That is to say, the emergency stateization of the Hypo Alpe-Adria was an alternative, because if one had let the Hypo Alpe-Adria fall into bankruptcy, then the country's liability would be beating, then of course Carinthia could not pay any more and the Federation would have to jump in. Because a federal state cannot go bankrupt in Austria – you say. But why not? Why can't a federal state in Austria go bankrupt? How do the Austrian taxpayers get to pay off the creditors of the Hypo Alpe-Adria? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We NEOS are following the path not only to harsh criticism in the matter, if it is necessary, but also to show constructive solutions. How do we close this budget hole again? That is the crucial question. How do we prevent taxpayers from coming back to the handcushion in the future? [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Do you have a suggestion?]] This is the answer that the citizens expect from us. And NEOS as the taxpayer's lawyer will indicate this constructive way. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What is your solution?]] It is up to you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, whether you want to take this path of courageous reforms with us. Yeah, what's the solution? Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has already mentioned it, I think, Mr Haubner has already said it today, that we have already shown a solution at the last plenary session: Reduction of party funding by 75 percent. This is a first step. [[Congratulation with NEOS-LIF.]] [[Abg. Kickl: But only if the hazelsteiner donates nothing!]] Mr Kickl, if you are already sitting here in front of me, I would also like to mention it as follows: For a 75 percent reduction in party funding, you do not have to look across the Atlantic – as you have said – but you only have to go to Upper Austria and look over the Inn. If you look at Germany, you know what it is like when the party promotion is 75 percent lower. [[Abg. Kickl: But there was a buying party out of the Bundestag!]] Apparently this also works there, and that can be our scale. But that's just one step. Another bold reform is the introduction of insolvency law for local authorities. We are therefore making the following request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need this insolvency right for local authorities, for the federal states. Switzerland is also showing the way here – once again. Let me give you an example: The municipality of Leukerbad, which is a 1 750-inhabitant municipality in Switzerland, a thermal bath community, has raised financially in the 1990s, has had several hundred million euros in debt and has not been able to pay them any more. The parallels to Carinthia, though on a smaller level, are at hand. This municipality then asked its canton, the canton of Wallis, for help. The parallels stop, however, because the canton government was not willing to help the municipality of Leukerbad. What did they do? – They have been brought before the Federal Court, but the judges in Lausanne have also said: No, we can't help you because there is the so-called debt-absorbing law in Switzerland, and under this law the communities are responsible for themselves. What is the result? – Communities and cantons have become illegitimate, have known they have no help to expect, and have fixed their finances. And here we are at the game type of Austrian federalism. Such disasters as the Hypo Alpe-Adria can only exist in a system of Austrian federalism, can only be possible if the responsibility for money spending and the responsibility for money collection are separate. If the countries want to be politically responsible – and this is what I am saying, coming from Upper Austria, who want to be responsible – and are connected with corresponding government expenditure, then they must also assume responsibility for the necessary tax revenue – and also take responsibility if something is going wrong financially. For this we need an insolvency right for local authorities. [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] Ladies and gentlemen, have you courage to go this path of courageous reforms with us, support our motion for a resolution! The mere possibility of insolvency from the federal states prevents budget holes. And that's what I'm saying, and that's what we say about NEOS as the taxpayer's lawyer: It also prevents the taxpayer from having to pay back the tokens of creditors in the future. That can't happen anymore! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e6384	The motion for a resolution just tabled by Mr Hable is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e6450	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e6471	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Values Advisors on the ranks! The most important false theses of the New Vienna School of National Economics under Chancellor Faymann are as follows: First false thesis: There is no budget hole, just a structural deficit! At the beginning of November, it became apparent that between €30 billion and €40 billion were missing for the Federal Financial Framework 2014 until 2018. They were talking about a budget hole. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: That's just the prognosis! It's not a hole, it's a prognosis!]] In the coalition, then, a heated discussion broke out, and one was creative and found a new concept of budgetary law, namely the structural deficit. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: That's not true either!]] . Let me speak out, my colleague. [[State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer: He has been there for many years!]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: That's not a new term! It's been there since 1997!]] And already, you were no longer at €30 to €40 billion, but only at €18.44 billion. In the structural deficit – as we all know – one-off effects such as the Hypo Alpe-Adria and the additional costs in the pension area are calculated. But if you calculate these again, then you get a false amount of almost 33 billion, where we would be back at the starting amount. According to Maastricht criteria, we have a loss of €31.3 billion. Second false thesis: Structural deficits are not planned events! The huge budget gap has not come about unexpectedly, Mr. Federal Chancellor! Such an exorbitant amount of money announces itself of course. Before the election, the zero deficit was sold by the coalition as tangible, generous tax reforms and discharges were announced. – All of this turns out to be a pure election-flight. Third-party false thesis: In order to achieve the budget targets, there is no need for a package of savings that can be felt for the citizens! Federal Chancellor! You have only recently reaffirmed that, from your point of view, no package of savings is necessary for citizens to achieve the budget objectives. The pension area lacks sufficient €8.7 billion, the federal states have to give up to €5 billion, and the announced increase in family support is also a failure, which increases families by €250 million each year. - And you shouldn't feel all this, Mr. Federal Chancellor?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Fourth False Thesis: The lack of tax revenue is no problem at all, because you can agree on higher tax revenue anyway – similar to debt! By 2018, the budget lacks €15 billion in tax revenue, and in 2014 alone, €2 billion is missing. By the way, unemployment in Austria has reached a new historical peak, and there is no need to be light-seen to know that this will be a massive burden on the budget. At the beginning of 2015, the AMS calculates almost half a million unemployed. And what does the Secretary of State say about this? – In a Europe-wide comparison, we are already well in place. But we live here in Austria and not in comparison, Mr State Secretary! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Fifth false thesis: Short-term financial planning enables long-term refusal of reality! What concrete reforms are now agreed upon by the coalition is extremely uncertain, because here, according to the understanding, there are still fundamental differences of opinion. The EIAs are seeking long-term financial planning, which I believe is also very reasonable. Otherwise, of course, the Federal Chancellor sees it. He only wants to plan the year 2014 precisely and everything else, bearing in mind the inaccuracy of the forecasts only on rough lines. Finally, the sixth false thesis: Contradiction, that makes sense if you want to stay federal chancellors! And do you know what the biggest accompanying scandal of this Causa is? – That two parties are now negotiating a government formation which, due to its known error of the voters today, does not even have the common 50 percent majority. Mr. Federal Chancellor, end your unconditional refusal of reality at last! Do nails with heads – or clear the way for new elections!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e6562	The next item is the voluntary speaking time limit of 3 minutes. This is also your club's remaining speaking time, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e6583	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We do not have a revenue problem, but an expenditure problem, let us be aware of that once! Save expenditure, ladies and gentlemen, in the administration! I've often told you: 22 Social insurance institutions, 5 pension insurance institutions – make 1 plus 1 instead of 22 plus 5, then go much easier! Federal Minister Hundstorfer mentioned it earlier: More sense of responsibility is required. Here you could show more sense of responsibility instead of once again producing new taxes, as it always floats around in the minds behind me on the government bank. Go here, look people in the eye and help them keep their hard-earned money in their pocket, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We from the Stronach team want to definitely help you here, so I also make the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second motion for a resolution will also help you: Resolution by Dr. Nachbaur, colleagues, on the harmonisation and further development of budgetary law The National Council wants to decide: “The Austrian Federal Government is invited to submit a legislative proposal for the harmonisation of budgetary law, taking into account the above recommendations of the Court of Auditors.” Ladies and gentlemen! We from the Stronach team lend you our ideas, we lend you our mind. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You just need to access it, and you'll be better off driving it. Let's do it together, ladies and gentlemen. You have a chance to do this now, we'll give you a hand!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e6671	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Hagen are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e6838	As the last speaker, Mr Magistrate has been mentioned. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e6859	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Yes, the new parliamentaryism, the new government will probably have to look different. [[Abg. Wheeler: Old Greens!]] It is not true that today's meeting is the necessary follow-up to the last meeting, where the answers to Members' pressing questions have not been answered. And today this happened again. The context, content and title of the question, in this case the Liberal Group, are perfectly clear. This is primarily not a question of budgetary policy – we can talk about it already, because it is right to call for counter-proposals for what you have done. It was a matter of primary concern and it is still about this predicament, and by the way it is no longer only against the Minister of Finance in the area, but in the end it is also – Mr Bundeskanzler – that is why we waited a little until you are back – against you and against Mr Vice-Chancellor. That's the truth. And how does this truth look? How does it look – contrary to what you have listed here, contrary to the sequence: first produce a hole, then necessarily come after the choice, so lie, hole lie, remeasure the hole, relativization of the lie, and eventually a restoration. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: “Lie”! Ordinary call!]] Yes, yes, be quiet about this, for we really want to lead this debate! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] This is the problem of this Parliament and the possible President that what is a lie must no longer be called a lie. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The tragedy on the matter is something else: that you – and not only the Minister of Finance, but also the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, including Mr Vice-Chancellor – have participated in it and that undermines the credibility of parliamentary democracy anyway, but politics as a whole. That is why it is good if there are those who point out that this damage is detected and try to fix it at the end of the day. Just as it was in the fight against corruption – and you can't wipe out these parallels –: First, under black and blue, you have organized everything possible for billions of damage – for billions of damage! – the taxpayers, and then it was only about organizing a moral restart here again, as well as it goes out of the opposition. But with this action of concerted campaign flights you have destroyed little-built trust here once again! That is why it is so important that at least part of this House here repeatedly points out how it would be his task, not only to the members of the opposition, but also to the members of the government. [[Abg. Wheeler: The solutions!]] [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS-LIF.]] Yes, yes, the solutions: The solutions always start with a restart, even with a moral! On Sundays, don't go to church, or from me, but then also in politics, help yours to get the whole thing better. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We are still in the right place – that is why we also have our ministerial and ministerial support! We don't make that easy. [[Abg. Wheelers: You're overtaken!]] It is also very rare that Mrs Klubobfrau mentioned it. However, the process here is quite clear: that, first of all, against better knowledge, second in billions, third in clearly identifiable sub-groups of the Federal Financial Framework – in that case, the Group 46 – around the Zig-fold – is not by a few million or perhaps by a billion, but by several billion! – deliberately the wrong was set. [[In the direction of SPÖ:]] Now you can say you didn't know. [[In the direction of ÖVP:]] And you can say you didn't know. In the course of the Austrian Constitution, which we all know too well, they may have had to present at the Nasenring – even this could be a call for order – here to vote against the intention of the federal constitution, against all that we have always decided and held high here, against what several finance ministers – the last was Mrs Fekter – travel around in half Europe and explain: what we have a great financial constitution right to do. Then go here and break it on every offering occasion! And if country elections are just the same, you don't put in a budget for the sake of caution – even against the Constitution! We won't let you do that. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] That's why it was so important that the opposition together made this special meeting. Maybe it wasn't the last one yet! That depends on your sluggishing process. The reason for the Prime Minister's statement has already been given, very precise by Mrs Klubobfrau. Just one more thing: It is indeed – and then the Committee of Inquiry's debates will provide an opportunity to go a little further – in addition to the whole swindle that is imposed on the people and Parliament here, it will also be possible to maximize the damage! In the Federal Republic, therefore, because one has just played openly, one has also avoided damage by saying from the outset what is the point of view: quite clear debt ratios, not corpses in the basement, Mrs Finanzminister, not a morgue, but stone and clear! But with us this delay has... As they interpret in the SPÖ – I find that funny – with the heads so denying! For the Minutes. The current clubman and ever-yet-State Secretary of State has already guided his minister in the election campaign, when the skins have already washed away a bit: Actually, he had been for two years, that is, since 2011, for a so-called Bad Bank – we need a different term – because it would have been much cheaper. Not even you in the government have agreed. But obviously it was a debate, and therefore, Federal Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor, we cannot leave you out because you also needed to know. They have actively participated in this lie, and that is much worse!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e6982	Mr Kogler, you are now trying for the third time. It is not possible to order calls as speakers, but of course you can trigger them with such expressions. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But you can make an effort!]] I'm sorry to give you an order call. I would ask that in the future this choice of words, especially the accusation of the lie, be abandoned.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e7035	Thank you. - But I'll stick to it. The premise that the head of government had to know this is also evidenced by the fact that the same head of government has used a task force – to the displeasure of Mrs Finanzminister – because at least it has been recognized that this is not the case anymore. At the same time, however, you have failed to bring Parliament the necessary legislative proposals. We could have started the resolution unit for a long time. Read on in the minutes of this year's meetings, where we made these proposals! We could have been there a long time ago. The chairman of the Task Force you set up said: Yes, at some point we may need a law, soon, but alone: Parliament needs so long. So we're to blame, after the unsaid has been opened up here, the necessary one has been left out! And now you might still be able to sit on the dock? - No, I really don't think so. This is the indictment bank, and that is why it is also the minister's anchorage! [[towards the government bank]] In fact, she'd be worth it to you, too. That is the bitter truth in this place, so it is unfortunately. Now, of course, we can talk a lot about it soon, and you know that from me – sometimes also to the shame of my group – that we are also offensively constructive here and say: Where could we clean up something again? – Yes, we can make a lot of proposals here, and there will be a lot more. [[Abg. Wheeler: The NEOS!]] You from the Socialist Group would be very brave to wish you were going through with a few demands here – alone, I can't see them yet. And there is a danger that we will have what we always have in these government negotiations: They have more votes, but they lose the negotiations. – Not bad either, from the point of view of the ÖVP. Something else, because this too was a debate: the European political context. Mr. Bundeskanzler, it does not help if you in the Ahnengalerie organise a race with your predecessor, Federal Chancellor Schüssel, who would have just invented the financial transaction tax, but then enforced it. If this matter is carried to the grave in Europe in the last place, because it is being disfigured by the financial lobbys you have always been so apotrophic and identified as fighting, to the inconspicuousness – even a beautiful corpse – and you are not doing anything now, then no one needs to come to the EU's main committee, not you yourself, and to explain how important it is. There is no evidence of your initiative! Before Christmas is the next summit, and there it is so far, something has to happen, or you are unbelievable on this question too! [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS-LIF.]] Bruno Rossmann and I have not received any answers from the committee, no more than to the question of finally having to end this caputt-reduction policy in Europe, otherwise we will be able to do so. Nothing's happening. Instead, Mrs Merkel is once again loved for a so-called pact on competitiveness. By the way, you have also remained guilty of the answer. Only in time to co-write here in the house of Red and Black: That can be a two-thirds matter at the end! Why? – Because the Federal Chancellor in Germany always wants to change the Lisbon Treaty because she fears with her Federal Constitutional Court Zores. But that means that the question of the Constitution is automatically raised here – here inside! So, please make an effort in time, because with such a proposal there is no joy! We shall also be voting against it, I have already told you. The last thing that might be correct and important in this context is: I miss too Their commitment to the Free Trade Agreement to be concluded with the USA. You've been talking about what some neoliberal spin doctors who are driving around in Brussels have obviously written down to you: That brings so many jobs, and what do I know? [[Abg. Wheeler: The NEOS!]] So far, it is only clear from this so-called free trade agreement that, in reality, a profit guarantee is to be set for corporations vis-à-vis states that you are even more epressible about what you are always proposing to fight, namely this sequence. They always want to get rid of the hostages of the corporations. That's why it would be important for you to confess color here at least once. Even better if you did. But that's not going to happen either. So we actually have a lot to do until Christmas. I hope you'll bring together a government, but don't come here without rehabilitating these points!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e7105	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote, first of all on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on the immediate stop to East opening on the labour market. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinzl, Mr Haubner, Mr Doppler, Mr Mag. Treasure, Hagen, Pock, colleagues on receipt of Salzburg Airport. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Abg. Street: Incredible unanimity!]] The request was adopted unanimously. (E 1.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues, on the suspension of the Valorization of Party Funding. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, ladies and gentlemen, on the limitation of voting costs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[There is no sign of approval.]] [[Abg. Strache: The Oligarch Model!]] Dr. Strolz? [[The Members of NEOS-LIF rise from their seats.]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls.]] That's how a president can be so helpful. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Themessl, colleagues, on the introduction of a minimum pension of €1 200 and a pension adjustment of the pension index. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the establishment of a non-profit-making Advocate General as a anti-corruption measure. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Nor does this request find the necessary majority and is it rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues, on the red and black cavalry of police services. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Member of Parliament and the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, to vote 'Yes', those who vote against, to vote 'No'. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark. It happens every now and then that polls stick together. I now ask the author, Mrs Mag. Musiol to start with the name call. Mr Buchmayr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e7255	Did everyone give up their voice? – The vote has ended. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e7293	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 177; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 46, “No ” voices: 129, invalid: 2. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues, on the red and black cavalry of police services is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Bösch; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Franz, Fuchs; Of a width of not more than 1 mm, of Hackl, port picker, Hagen, Haider, Hauser, Höbart, Hofer; Jannach; Cashier, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kunasek; Lausch, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Mühlberghuber; Rebaur Kathrin, Neubauer Werner; Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schmid Gerhard, Schrangl, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Strache, Stronach; themesl; Vetter, Vilimsky; Refusal torpher, Winter, Worm Peter. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Amon, Antoni, Aslan, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, El Habbassi, Eßl; Faymann, Fekter, Fichtinger; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hable, Hammer Michael, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Höfinger, Holzinger, Hundstorfer; Jank, Jarmer, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Klug, Knes, Köchl, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Korun, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kurz; Lettenbichler, light picker, lipitsch, loacker, lopatka, lueger Angela; Maurer, Mayer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mikl- Leitner, Mitterlehner, Mlinar, Moser, Mückstein, Musiol, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Pock, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rauch Johannes, Rossmann, Rudas; Scherak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schönegger, Schultes, Schwentner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Spindelegger, Steinacker, Steinhauser, Steßl, Strasser, Strollz; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vogl; Walser, Wenninger, Willi, Wimmer, Windbüchler-Sushill, tiny, Wittmann, Wöinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, Zinggl. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hable, ladies and gentlemen, on insolvency law for local authorities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Dr. Nachbaur, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Sudden convening of a budget summit with non-party experts'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Nachbaur, ladies and gentlemen, on the harmonisation and further development of budgetary law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[16:36:26]] Requests for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e7530	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry by Mr Dr. Rebauer, colleagues and colleagues on the study of political and legal responsibility in connection with the "hypo-desaster" and on Mr Mag. Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues and colleagues on the establishment of an investigative committee to further examine political and legal responsibility in relation to nationalisation and the role of the owner since then, with particular reference to the introduction of a decision on the resolution structure of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG’. The two applications have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request of Deputies Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, colleague and colleagues according to § 33 GoG-NR iVm Art 53 B-VG on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry to examine political and legal responsibility in relation to nationalization and the role of the owner since then, with particular reference to the introduction of a decision on the resolution structure (i.e. Decommissioning unit) of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG (HGAA Committee). The National Council wants to decide: “To investigate the political responsibility associated with the acquisition of the shares of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG (HBInt) by the Republic of Austria and the subsequent handling of the rights and obligations of the sole owner, in particular the government’s decision on a final resolution structure of the Hypo Group Alpe Adria (HGAA) a Committee of Inquiry consisting of a total of 24 representatives in relation to 7 SPÖ, 7 ÖVP, 5 FPÖ, 3 Greens, 1 Team Stronach, 1 NEOS-LIF.’ Subject-matter of the investigation Examination of the emergency nationalisation: 1. Information on the negotiation process of the purchase of shares in the HBInt by the Republic of Austria, in particular on the date of the first contact between the Bavarian Landesbank (BayernLB) and the Austrian Ministry of Finance and the question whether an insolvency of the HGAA was actually considered by the BayernLB and the decision-making and risk assessment of the negotiating partners on the Austrian side, which led to the decision of the emergency nationalisation of the HGAA. 2. Information on the design of the share purchase contract between the Republic of Austria and the BayernLB, in particular on those responsible for the final legal design and formulation, and on the maintenance of liabilities over 3.1 billion. EUR the BayernLB vis-à-vis the HBint, the provisions in the case of a breakdown or sale of the bank and the provisions on guarantee and guarantee (paragraphs 5 and 6 of the share purchase contract). 3rd. Information on the background to the termination of HGAA loans and loans by the BayernLB of 1.2 billion. EUR in November 2009, the knowledge of the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Procuratorship, as well as considerations on the non-compliance of this procedure under § 1 ECECEC. 4. Information on whether the terms and conditions of the share purchase contract provide for repayment of loans granted by BayernLB, loans, etc. in the case of the settlement of the risk business via a “Bad Bank”. 5. Information on who was involved in the negotiation team with the BayernLB by the Bank, the Ministry of Finance, the Supervisory and the Republic, and which consultants in particular were added. 6. Information on the audit reports submitted by the OeNB and the FMA at the time of the negotiations on the purchase of shares and how these were interpreted. 7. Information on whether and, where applicable, why the Republic of Austria, in the context of the negotiations on the emergency nationalisation of the HGAA, has renounced the acquisition of external legal expertise, as is customary for transactions of this complexity and scope. 8. Information on why the Republic did not waive warranty obligations when buying shares in the context of the emergency nationalisation of the HGAA and why the purchase of the shares did not exclude future claims of the seller, while the BayernLB as a seller retained extensive rights of participation and whether, in these circumstances, taxes on the taxpayer (e.g. by requisitions of the BayernLB). 9. Information on the form in which, for example, the share purchase contract took into account the fact that due to the circumstances of emergency nationalization (time pressure, pressures, etc. European bodies) no usual review in the form of a due diligence prior to signing of the contract and to what extent appropriate later Improvement clauses in the interest of the Republic of Austria as buyers found inclusion in the contract. 10. Information on the scenarios presented by PwC as part of the asset screening and on the extent to which these scenarios formed the basis for the purchase of shares. 11th@item: inlistbox Information on the extent to which a subsequent due diligence has taken place in view of the time of ownership of the BayernLB, in particular in the context of the CSI (clause of HGAA’s assets) initiated by the President of the Financial Procurator in spring 2010 and requested by the political leadership, according to media reports. 12. Information on the precise responsibilities, contacts and decision-making channels in the competent Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF) regarding the exercise of ownership rights and obligations at HGAA, the negotiations with the European Commission, etc. as well as the activities documented with them since the emergency nationalisation. 13. Information on the backgrounds of the Landesgericht München I, 32. Civil court dispute over at least 2.3 billion. EUR between the BayernLB and the HGAA and verify that the BayernLB’s contested loans were properly taken into account at the time of the emergency nationalisation by the negotiating BMF and other stakeholders and why and on which legal basis the termination of the repayments took place only in 2012. Investigation of the operations relating to the resolution/restructuring of the HGAA 14. Information on when the idea of the management of the risk business of HGAA via a ‘bad bank’ by the Republic of Austria (in particular the BMF) was discussed for the first time. These documents were presented by the Society to the extent that they were used and how this model was evaluated economically. 15. Information on the first time the BMF had a portfolio analysis of the HGAA and how it was assessed. 16. Information on the various potential resolution models discussed in the BMF and in other relevant bodies (in particular the Hypo Task Force) for the HGAA as well as review of any assessment, assessment and cost-benefit analysis on the different variants. 17. Information on the role of financial procurator in the sales negotiations, in the design of contracts and in the design of the resolution models and/or in EU aid proceedings and in legal disputes with the BayernLB. 18. Information on the restructuring plans submitted to the European Commission (Republic opinions and questionnaires from the EU Commission). 19. Information on whether the idea of managing the risk business of HGAA via a ‘bad bank’ by the Republic has not been implemented from other than purely economic considerations. 20. Information on whether the idea of managing the risk business of HGAA via a "bad bank" by the Federal Government has not been implemented for purely electoral reasons until today. 21. ==References====External links== The HGAA's risk operations are not dealt with by HGAA through a "Bad Bank" and the unnecessarily high capital injections required by the Republic of Austria have been damaged by the Republic of Austria or the Republic of Austria. the taxpayers have been created. 22. Information on whether the Republic of Austria or one of its companies has caused a reputational damage by the fact that the decision regarding settlement has been postponed for years. 23. Information on the extent to which the settlement that had not been carried out so far was due to the fact that advisers and lawyers' fees at colported level of rd. 300 million Euro has been attacked. 24. In particular, the Austrian credit institutions, such as the Austrian credit institutions, are aware of the extent to which and by whom discussions with private investors have already been made (in particular the Austrian credit institutions, for example). Raiffeisenbanken, Erste Bank/Sparkassen, Hypo Banken) on the formation of a ‘Bad Bank’ and to what extent such a solution has already been discussed with those responsible for both domestic and international statistical authorities as well as, where appropriate, those with interest to consent. 25. Information on the extent to which and at what time experts were involved in the strategic considerations on the management of the HGAA (in particular with regard to the ‘Bad Bank’). 26. According to HGAA, the HGAA is not able to meet the risk requirements of HGAA. how the public-led political discussion has structurally damaged the national institution (e.g. about customer drains). Investigation order The subject-matter of the investigation is to be pursued by applying all the instruments provided for in the VO-UA as well as information of all kinds, as well as by all the files, reports and protocols - in particular the Federal Chancellor's Office, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Austrian National Bank, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority, Finanzmarktbehörde AG, the Investigation Committee for the verification of the sale of shares of HGAA by the Carinthian Land Holding of the Carinthian Landtag and the Task Force Hypo Alpe Adria. All issues are to be examined for legal and political responsibilities. Reasons In December 2009, the Republic of Austria acquired all the shares of the HBint for a symbolic euro from the BayernLB. By the end of 2009, HGAA had a capital requirement of 1.5 billion by the end of the banking crisis. EUR. ==References== In November 2009, the then Bavarian Finance Minister Georg Fahrenshon announced to Austrian Finance Minister Josef Pröll that HGAA would no longer want to provide fresh capital via the BayernLB. At the same time, the BayernLB attracted 1.2 billion in the form of termination of loans. EUR from the HBint and thus brought it to the edge of the bankruptcy. The damage to HGAA was taken into account. At the time of sale, the BayernLB still had claims of 4 billion. EUR against HGAA. Negotiations between the BayernLB and the Republic Austria (with the exclusion of minority owners Kärntner Landes- und Mortgagekenbank Holding and Grazer Reciprocale) ended with the BayernLB relinquishing on claims over 825 million. EUR. The remaining liabilities exceed 3.1 billion. According to the purchase contract, EUR shall continue to be served by the new owner, the Republic of Austria (and thus the taxpayer). From the BayernLB's point of view, such high-risk claims against the HGAA were converted into secure claims against the Republic of Austria. It should be clarified in an investigation committee whether the intentional injury suffered by HGAA by the Group's mother (and thus the immediate bankruptcy) would have been prevented if the competent State institutions of the Republic of Austria had qualified the funds concerned as own-capital substitutes under § 1 ECEG. The question should also be asked whether the emergency nationalization of HGAA and the resulting billion tomb for the Republic were indeed “alternativeless” (Finanzminister Pröll). It was the first time that the Minister of Finance gave Fahrenschon the first time. In the proceedings against HGAA's employee private foundation on October 10, 2013, it was never possible to consider insolvency. For Bavaria, this would have a loss of at least part of the claims against HGAA of at least 4 billion. EUR means, in contrast to a loss of 825 million. EUR and a maintenance of claims exceeding EUR 3.1 billion. EUR in the case of nationalisation. It is therefore necessary to examine on what basis of decision and on what basis the risk assessment of the financial burden on the Republic of Austria and the relatively favourable route of emergency nationalisation has been chosen for BayernLB. Against the background of the media-explained time pressure, including pressing voices from abroad and abroad, it is necessary to examine the extent to which the impossibility of a serious audit (by due diligence) during the sales talks and related corrective clauses were taken into account in the interests of the buyer in the contracts. It is also necessary to determine the reasons for the concrete design of the content of the contract. In particular, it is necessary to highlight why the BayernLB retains participation rights, although it withdraws all risks in the purchase contract and why the BayernLB’s own-capital-replaced loans do not remain in the HGAA after the sale. The content of the contract is also to the detriment of the Republic of Austria, since any guarantee or liability was excluded for the purchased shares, so the Republic took on a significant risk. A short time after the adoption of the HGAA, it became aware during 2010 that the financial institution was in a dramatic state despite the measures taken in the 2009 financial year and that further capital measures as well as far more extensive restructuring measures would be necessary. At this time, the idea of the “Bad Bank” was also spread. Not least as a result of the recently needed financial injection, the expected report of the Task Force Hypo as well as the media reports of the last week – where, for example, ==References====External links==* Official website ‘Hypo: Financial Procuratorship Prefers Dead Bank Model in the "Standard" of 29. ==References====External links== “Pleide Carinthias would be cheaper for the federal government than hypo rescue” in the “Presse” of the 29th century. On November 30, 2013, "Experts Against Insolvency of Hypo" Ö1 Morgenjournal, 30. November 2013) – the discussion receives special topicality. Experts such as Hypo Supervisory Board Chief Liebscher, Chief Executive Officer of FIMBAG and former Chairman. Governor of the OeNB, prefer the solution of the ‘Bad Bank’ on the ‘further sausage’ of the current Minister for Finance. Even in September, Liebscher announced that the necessary capital injections would be reduced with a timely decommissioning unit. In the same way, the former AR-chairman of the HBint, Johannes Ditz, had made several statements, and he should also have given an urgent explanation to the responsible head office in the BMF (according to media reports in May 2013). The head of government was also in favour of the solution of the Bad Bank, and in November 2013, Liebscher was able to mention it in agreement with Chancellors and Vice-Cancellors. Wifo bank expert Hahn recently stated that it was already “too late” for the Bad Bank solution. Too long those eyes had been closed. ‘Some unnecessary subsidies would have been saved’, one would have acted earlier, that is, two or three years ago. ‘This would have been cheaper for the taxpayer’ (cf. "Hahn: Bad Bank comes "too late" on kurier.at from 15. ==References== In the light of this, the question arises why, in particular, Finance Minister Maria Fekter and other bodies subordinate to the BMF, such as the Financial Procuratorship, seem to oppose the proposed solution, which would further burden the taxpayers who are heavily charged by the HYPO Debakel and which damage would have been avoided by an earlier settlement of the HBI. In accordance with § 33(2) of the GOG-NR, the Members who have been signed call for a short debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e7815	The first speaker to speak is Mrs. Dr. Nachbaur. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e7836	Mr President. In the course of the banking crisis, three institutions were nationalized with the argument system relevance, namely, as we know, the Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank, the ÖVAG and the municipal credit. The new owner, that is, the Republic of Austria, manages these investments through FIMBAG. On the one hand, the Stronach team wants to explore the state-of-the-art operations of the Hypo Alpe-Adria and the other banks and, on the other hand, – and this is much more important now – discuss the future options for this bank and the other banks affected. [[Ongoing calls from Mr Höfinger and Mr Mag. Nice to meet you.]] - Excuse me, I find this so rude! This is about billions, and you are interested in Mr Gabmann. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, Greens and NEOS-LIF.]] Thank you. First of all, I would like to address the past on hypo. The Stronach team will apply for a Hypo Alpe-Adria study committee, because it needs a complete clarification of political and legal responsibility in connection with this emergency nationalization in 2009. This is about up to €17 billion tax money. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] There are many different estimates of the damage from this pleite, where one cannot actually speak of pleite, because it was prevented by the emergency stateization. This was a purely political decision to minimize the damage, especially in the country of Carinthia, but also in the hypo-inhibition association. This would have cost the Raiffeisen Group a lot of money indirectly about their participation in the hypo-debt association. The Bank needs another billion by the end of the year. And experts even believe that it would have been cheaper for the Republic to let the country of Carinthia go pleite. In this comprehensive debate, which we are calling for in the Financial Committee, all possibilities must be discussed. And I would like to say again: We need a reasonable federalism reform. Although I did not agree to the NEOS proposal now, I think that this is a very important thought to reflect on a proper insolvency right of the local authorities. There are many lawyers who have recently developed very good papers on this issue, and nothing must remain taboo when it comes to finding the best solutions for taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What we have seen at the Hypo is that at least the responsibility for spending money and receiving money cannot be completely separated from each other. Among other things, we want to know: Why was there an emergency nationalization at all, because this bank was not system-relevant for Austria? The other important question is: Why did you save the German taxpayers with Austrian tax money? In addition to equity, the Germans also had €4 billion of loans in the bank that would have become equity in the bankruptcy – and that would have been gone. But now it was saved with our tax money. What happened since the emergency state? - It got worse and worse. Who is responsible for this? – The Republic has been leading this bank for five years now. The former managers must now – I think of the court in Klagenfurt – be responsible for criminal proceedings. Is it not necessary to say analogy that, after everything under the leadership of the Republic or the government's managers has become even worse, they are also legally responsible? [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] Financial market supervision and the bank audit of the Austrian National Bank must also be held responsible. Over the years, it was simply seen how the hole of the Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank grew larger and weaker from year to year. But I would also like to look to the future now. The Stronach team calls for a solution committee. As a debate in the next financial committee, I call for a summit on banking management, public and with experts. As for the hypo, the current activities of the Republic are focused on civil and criminal processing. A so-called special commission was set up by the Ministry of Finance, and of course hundreds of million euros were spent for consultants, auditors and, above all, lawyers. However, a reasonable model for settlement is still not available. The idea is that there should be a bathroom bank for the Hypo Alpe-Adria. As Bad Bank, however, it is subject to the Banking Act, which means it currently needs at least 10 percent equity. It is now being considered that the Austrian banks should be obliged to pay here and to participate in the settlement. But they don't want that. And what if someone who does not even want to have it is obliged to take part in some place and to provide the right solution? - That doesn't make any sense. Therefore, we say that there can be an efficient and successful resolution from our point of view only by a private investor. In principle, there is agreement that all lazy loans, loans and toxic papers come into their own resolution instrument. This must then be successfully handled by a private investor who wants the shares and specialises in such a kind of business. This must be able to obtain at least 50 percent of the shares plus a share and make all major decisions. The rest remains with the Republic. The transfer of this investor's own resources ensures rapid and success-oriented settlement. The refinancing of the resolution company will be ensured in the banks through capital guarantees from the Republic of Austria – as has been the case before. In a period of up to five years, up to 80 percent of the portfolio would have to be realized and – very important! – any proceeds from the settlement are, of course, distributed to the extent of the share capital. In other words, this private investor must, if he generates a profit, of course also have the upside. Because he also has the downside, as he risks that his entire used capital may be gone. Banks, private equity funds and investment boutiques have specialized in the exploitation of such assets. The same applies to local credit. Although this is hardly mediated, it is also under pressure. A Bad Bank, KA Finanz AG, has already been established for the municipal credit. Similarly, the structures necessary for exploitation are created. Here again, we suggest: Sale of the majority of Bad Bank shares to a private person in order to guarantee a more efficient settlement. [[Abg. Rädler: Who is this?]] I have already said that the exploitation of such assets is focused on banks, hedge funds, private equity funds and other investment boutiques and investment houses. It's a shame you don't know anyone. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] The third bank is ÖVAG. This bank differs from the other institutions in that it acts at the same time as a leading institution in the banking sector. A leading institution, of course, carries out certain tasks, is, as it were, the housekeepers of the individual banks. Therefore, there is no need for a separate resolution bank here, but instead the share of the Republic should be sold to a private investor together with the share of the public banks. A public banking sector in the Raiffeisen sector has been discussed for years, but unfortunately has never been successfully implemented so far. However, the German cooperative sector could serve as an example here, which has for decades led to a united and non-successful folk banking and raiffeisen sector. For the procedure: First of all, I would like to ask a question: Until when are there actual solutions for national banks? – I hope the answers are available no later than the end of the year. The next claim is: The red-black propor sorghums in the FIMBAG must be exchanged. This includes experts, specialists who also need to be rewarded for success. They're supposed to be deserved if they do something successfully, because otherwise they won't find the right people. Finally, you can only relieve the taxpayer. I repeat my request from the last plenary session: The new Minister of Finance should not come from either the SPÖ or the ÖVP or a state-owned bank that has been saved with tax money, because we need an expert, we need expertise. [[Abg. Toddler: Gabmann!]] Finally, political responsibility must also be clarified. Who's wearing her? Since the Republic manages the shop, it has become worse and worse. And my last and most important request is: I want an award of sales mandates for the privatisation of the three forced-state banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e7930	For the reasons of the second and joint motion for a resolution, I give Mrs Magistrate. Meinl-Risinger's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e7952	Mr President. High house! Yes, we have also made a request to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate nationalization, emergency nationalization and also to postpone the decision on the resolution of Hypo Alpe-Adria. We focus on the Hypo Alpe-Adria Group. Although we discussed in advance, we decided that we would make two requests. I would like to stress that we continue to take joint action with all opposition parties or all willing parties. Our request is a little different from that of the Stronach team, because in our opinion we really separate this from the very essential and now only light the Hypo Alpe-Adria. Why do we currently find this very relevant? First of all – and this has already been seen in the previous debate on the budget hole – because there has been a renewed financial need here. It will be €1.75 billion this year, and the question of whether this financial requirement, this capital injection, which will ultimately be paid to taxpayers and taxpayers, could have been avoided, would have been decided in time. The history of Hypo Alpe-Adria is a very long history, it begins about the turn of the millennium. I think it would take years to highlight all aspects – a lot has already been mentioned in the Committee of Inquiry in Carinthia. It is a story of poor leadership, of the mismanagement, of corruption, of the economy of friends, of the hypothesis of a federal country. However, it is also a story of negligence, of partly guilty action – judicial procedures – of non-information of citizens, and ultimately it is a very crucial question of political responsibility. That is why I am here today, we are NEOS, namely, to clarify this political responsibility. If you look at the history of the hypo, you can discover two things. On the one hand, decisions have been made very quickly, very quickly, perhaps even a little sluggish, for example the issue of emergency nationalization, which we would like to discuss in this committee of inquiry. On the other hand – and this is the counter-police – decisions have been postponed to the long-term, it has been decided for months, if not even for years. I very much regret that Mrs Federal Minister Fekter is not here now, which, in our opinion, is primarily responsible and has political responsibility. Our request consists of two parts. The first part, similar to the request made by the Stronach team, deals with the examination of the emergency nationalization. It is a question of clarifying whether this nationalization was indeed alternatives, as the then Minister of Finance Pröll said in the Committee of Inquiry. We would be interested when the first contact on the part of Bavaria took place with the Austrian Minister of Finance, who was involved in these negotiations and who was ultimately responsible for the design of the contract. I believe that the National Council and the citizens have a right to experience this, because that is the second major point in this emergency nationalization. This Treaty is at least peculiar. If you compare it with other contracts on share purchases, it is very poor, very thin. The guarantee is excluded and it is also at the expense of the Republic in many other areas. That's what I'm looking at. Who is responsible for the design of the contract? Has a due diligence actually taken place before the emergency nationalization? – There was no one, we know, there was no time, it all happened in great haste. But did a due diligence happen after that? Did you look at portfolio analyses after that? When were the first results on the table? Now I come to the second point: When, for the first time, has it been discussed internally that it needs a solution to the resolution, a resolution instrument, a so-called Bad Bank, or whatever it is called? I don't think this question came up until this year. You said that, Mr Kogler: Lie or untruth or whatever, something is not told to us. There were restructuring plans that were sent to Brussels. There must have been conversations. There are probably analyses of the National Bank, the FMA. What do they look like? What did they say? Which cost models and invoice models are on the table? That's all we want to have examined. Maybe a little more about the questions in detail: There are two very central issues that also upset citizens. The media have already felt massively in the spring that there must be a resolution strategy to make a decision. There was thanks to God also in March pressure from Brussels on the Federal Minister to finally come to a decision. That means, even before the election, it was clear that something had to be done, and it was clear: It costs money. Now the two key questions are: Has this decision not been taken on the basis of economic considerations? - I think so. If yes: Has this decision not been taken purely for electoral reasons? We are back at the debate we had before, which is voter fraud. We are slowly entering a dimension that is actually threatening. There are also media voices that say that it is already too late for the detachment in a Bad Bank. On the one hand, the Republic was harmed by the fact that these grants – as has been said – would not have been necessary to this extent again €1.75 billion this year. However, it has also been harmed by the fact that the sales proceeds of the Austrian daughter are clearly below the value that could have existed if there had not been this permanent uncertainty, because simply no decision had been made. There is still no closing because the Bavarias have not yet agreed to my knowledge. I'll take it. There are negotiations. I would also like to know more about this. Finally, it is a huge reputational damage for the Republic of Austria and for the hypo and the companies involved. This damage could have been averted. I think we need to discuss this urgently in a committee of inquiry. It has also been said about the responsibility of the National Council, and this responsibility also includes ensuring full transparency and saying to citizens out there: We don't have anything to hide, we're about to clear things up. That is why I would like to invite all my colleagues to agree to this committee of inquiry. That will be the only way to shed light on all these processes. The hypo is like the Titanic, which has long run up the iceberg. She's been sinking for a long time, and we've been doing nothing but stop these holes, where massive water penetrates. The command centre is totally impotent, no one takes the responsibility to finally make a decision. We hope that this decision will take place by the end of the year, but we demand complete information. The truth is reasonable to people and also to this National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8040	In the further debate, the speaking time of the individual Members reported in the speech is within the meaning of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure not more than 5 minutes. Mr Lipitsch was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8064	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If I have heard the opening words like this, I will Don't feel that investors circle like vultures and wait for them to hit. I mean, it's not the point of trying to get something cheaper when we're doing some sort of justice. I just want to make one clear: In 2009, the liabilities of the country of Carinthia, which had been entered by the responsible authorities in the area of the budget, amounted to €22 billion. In the country of Carinthia, a committee of inquiry has already been set up to develop political responsibility. However, I would also like to say that in 2009 Mr Strutz from the Freedom Party was here at the speaker's desk and said: Let's see how this goes on with nationalization or with banks! I remember very well, that was just before the nationalization. I came up with it a few hours later, why he said that. In the “ZiB 2” Mr. Uwe Scheuch was speaking and said clearly that he assumed that the League will save the country of Carinthia if something goes wrong with the hypo. I want something to do with Mrs. Reproducer say: Today, it has been mentioned more often that we can do something, and if the country of Carinthia goes into bankruptcy by the way, then we'll just take it into account as collateral damage. I have to say that it makes me deeply concerned when it comes to this, because the insolvency of a federal country has a direct impact on the communities, on businesses, on hospitals, on everyone. In reality, small and medium-sized enterprises and workers are affected. That is why it is important that a federal like Carinthia is not sent into bankruptcy. I just want to make this clear, because today it's a few times that it doesn't matter anyway, then we're sending Carinthia in bankruptcy. I just wanted to say that by the way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to say very clearly that the so-called credit mass in the country of Carinthia is no longer much available. In recent years, everything that was not non- and nailproof has been scrambled – I would say how a lemon squeezed out and then put away. [[President Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] I just remember that even last year it was decided to postpone repayments in the government in Carinthia. It was around 167 million. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Don’t say the SPÖ voted! It was in fact Mr Dobernig who delayed these 167 million in order to be able to burden the whole a little later. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Don't make any claims that you can't prove! Where are the facts?]] The court proceedings will produce a lot of facts. This court procedure, which is currently under way, clearly shows who the winners of the whole will be. Flick and Co. and those who can easily afford it have exhausted profits. There I am stoned and clear with my clubman Schieder, who today said that we have to secure this with a bank charge accordingly. Like our party, I am clear about capital taxes, so that these people, who use profits to any extent, are also asked to cash out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If I look at the requests this way, there is a lot of populism inside and it is sometimes even a pre-conception of people inside. I'm allowed to say straight and clear: We are in favour of clarification, we are in favour of transparency, but we are not in favour of a pre-judgment. That is why we shall also reject these requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8122	I call Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8143	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all: In the past, we from the Austrian People's Party represented the position that it is not appropriate to examine political responsibility in parallel to the judicial investigation. We have then been convinced by arguments, as they have been brought today, and we have agreed that there should be such parallel investigations. However, I would like to tell you that the experience was not good, because the result was actually only that some investigation results have been obtained to the public, which has led to pre-conceptions. [[Say to the Greens: "Not for you!]] In fact, this has hindered the investigation committee, because the defendants in the investigation committee have completely dismissed their statement or some invited persons have not even appeared at all – we could not, for example, question the Telekom chroniclers – and the like more. Therefore: There are, as I believe, very good arguments against a parallel investigation of justice on the one hand and political responsibility on the other – which does not mean for all eternity that we do not give our consent to an investigation committee following judicial investigations. I would now like to refer to the comments made by Dr. Nachbaur, who made a number of arguments, but none of the reasons why we need a political committee of inquiry. It was a wealth of interesting arguments; They also mentioned that there were investors. – Come on!, I can only say. I think the Ministry of Finance is quite open when you call people, ladies and gentlemen, who want to participate. You, Mrs. Dr. Nachbaur, are also warmly invited to call such institutions to the Ministry of Finance. - That's one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] The second is that there is also a wealth of investigations in this causa; Court proceedings are under way in Munich, Klagenfurt and Vienna. There are already initial convictions. One cannot therefore speak of it – yes, you did not do it either – that it would not be clarified. In fact, and what this Causa is about: The damage to taxpayers is enormous, so the debtors also have to be held responsible. Of course, problems always exist when it comes to criminal energy, which is behind various actions, because this “flowers” is known to be in secret. I would like to oppose the fact that you, Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur, say that everything would be solved, we would send the state of Carinthia to insolvency. - I mean, you can't do it that easy. You can discuss everything, and of course you can also talk about insolvency in relation to the federal states, but you have to think about it: Does that mean that it doesn't cost taxpayers? What does that mean when a federal country is unable to pay? What does it mean if a federal country is so to speak locked up? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] What does that mean with regard to the whole of the social world? What does that mean for the entire administration – down to the district headquarters? Also: What does that mean for the hospitals? A similar situation could only be experienced recently in the United States of America when there was no agreement on the federal budget there – then public authorities are being locked up. Therefore: I believe that this is a proposal with the in-the-insolvency send of the Federal Republic of Carinthia, which should not necessarily be approached. Mrs Mag. Meinl-Reisinger has made many arguments for an investigation committee. However, I would like to point out that there have already been two committees of inquiry of a regional nature, so to speak: one in Carinthia, one in Munich, but there was a slightly different situation, because there was, as it were, the Minister of Finance directly in the bank. So that's a little different. We also had a U-committee here in the House on this subject. There's the accusation that he came to an end too early. - Well, that's your argument. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Bad!]] Again: I would ask you to stick to the line: first, judicial investigations and then the decision on whether a political responsibility is to be clarified or not.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8219	Mr Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8241	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What we need is not a bankruptcy system for local authorities, but a banking bankruptcy system, something we have been calling for for for years now, because finally banks have to be removed from the market, which are no longer competitive. The argument of system relevance or the statement “too big to fail” cannot be maintained in the long run – and this has nothing to do with local authorities at all. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of Greens and NEOS-LIF.]] In my opinion, these two requests are not pre-conceptions, but they are simply a question of information: We want to know what happened. [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] We had a committee of inquiry during the last legislative period – and it could be said in Mr Amon's section that this committee of inquiry has been killed gently; I would rather say: This investigation committee has been turned off! In any case: If this Committee of Inquiry did not exist, there would now be no court proceedings in relation to the whole of the Telekom area. Thank God it was this committee of inquiry, otherwise much would not have happened. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of Greens and NEOS-LIF.]] There are sufficient reasons to also set up an investigative committee, especially in order to establish all the political responsibility; of course, many things have to be clarified in the economic field too. Forget You don't: Hypo Alpe-Adria came in majority Bavarian possession in 2007. The mortgage was no longer an Austrian bank – yes: an Austrian bank license – but was mostly owned by German banks. [[Call the ÖVP:Haider bank!]] [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: Who sold?]] – This has sold the country of Carinthia, but this has nothing to do with it, Mr Comrade Schieder, that at the end – this has nothing to do with Austria’s need for this bank to be non-governmental. [[Interlocutory calls to the SPÖ as well as calls to representatives of the FPÖ.]] That's clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] As regards the acceptance of liability: There were all the parties in Carinthia! With regard to liabilities for a federal state, you can discuss whether this was perhaps too much – that is the case from my point of view – but let's look at it: Vorarlberg has also taken over liabilities of €7 billion – and this is at least the fourfold of the Vorarlberger Landesbudget. That means that it wasn't an individual case. In addition, the Hypo Alpe-Adria has increased its business volume by 50 percent, from €20 billion to over €30 billion: This was not Austrian or Carinthian responsibility, but only those of Bavaria. All this is clear, all the facts have to be put on the table. The Bayern have run a very expansive growth course with the hypo, and in the summer of 2008 they then suddenly came upon it that it could go in the graves – and the Bayern have tried to construct an exit scenario. This exit scenario was as follows: Unfortunately, I do not have the time to explain this in detail, but interesting is already Yes, that is to be explained, Mr Klubobmann! [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: But that would be important! The details!]] [[Abg. Kickl: We need a committee to do this!]] [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: You were there!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] I wasn't there. None of the Members were there. They were not there either, and that is why we want the appropriate information. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A lot of party colleagues from Carinthia were present, which is not to be rejected by hand. Interestingly, already in the summer of 2009, in Munich – obviously that is why the ÖVP is relatively quiet in this whole of Causa – there have been secret talks between Bavarian politicians and ÖVP politicians, about a possible return of the Hypo Alpe-Adria in Austrian property. Then this bank was gradually eroded; Money was deducted to break the hypo economically. I can tell you exactly when the Bayern deducted money from the hypo. At the end of the day it was in November and on 14 November respectively. December, as far as I know, came to the nationalization. Why? – Because the liability would have happened to the Bayern and thus not the Raiffeisenkaskasse, which was in a bond of liability with the Hypo, is also asked for cash. That's the real reason behind that.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8396	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8417	Mr President. Yes, Mr Amon, who is ahead of the reputation of being the great advocate of transparency, the spearhead of the Enlightenment, at every committee of inquiry. But in one I could give you the right thing: that you already have to look – look! - when you're investigating something. However, this would require reading, at least the requests from the two political groups, if they were already commented. What we certainly cannot need for the time being – even from tax payer protection – would be an immediate 27. Research unit that marches into the Hypo Alpe-Adria and turns everything around again. I'm sure there's a lot on the way. For this reason, we, the Greens, have announced this year, subject to the need to save the most necessary one. Because, as has already been mentioned, there are millions of people a day – the ticker is still running – and that must be worth it. But with regard to the argument of Mr Amon, who is actually always the SPÖ's protection argument – and to what the Carinthian colleague has said, I do not want to go closer now – this deserves an accurate consideration. So either You have not read it or you are unsuspecting, but what you have argued is certainly not in line with what is being debated here. Because what legal proceedings are under way has nothing to do with the items of investigation proposed here. Is there any judicial procedure in the process of emergency nationalization? – It might have belonged to one. But is there something going on? - No! On the one hand, on the other hand, on the process of decommissioning the European Union and, so to speak, abuse of the taxpayer in Austria, on the other, that too late or not – or as you would like to solve this – a resolution is being built, there is no judicial procedure in my knowledge. If you already want to be so consistent in your argument, I can only invite you to agree to our ministerial support as soon as possible, because at least there would be a trial before any court – in this case before the Constitutional Court – that would have to do with what you are talking about. So you could do that, that wouldn't be wrong. Please agree to the Prime Minister's charge! Then maybe you would have a straw to which you could still cling with your argument! Otherwise, I have to tell you: We are not just talking about what happened before 2007 and earlier in Carinthia – bad enough! – in the bank and with the political responsibility, bad enough! Take care of how the calls went. But, in fact, it's about something completely different. Let's take a look at this cascade! The remaining minutes are not enough to do exactly that. I can only tell you one thing: Where, then and today, was the central bank still responsible, already in the two thousand years, where the liabilities were extended by billions, dizzy business was made, dubious societies were founded, daughters of daughters, businesses proved to have been made with East Mafia? Where were all the “wonderful” institutions that we have defended so far in the central bank? This has to be addressed once! What about the newly founded FMA? – That was a black and blue achievement. No one wanted to remember how Minister Grasser explained how meaningful and necessary the new FMA is. This has just come into its fullest bloom, at least with many, many employees, when the hypo disaster has exploded in parallel. Well, you don't want to make any correlation? - Then good night! These responsibilities must be clarified! And that has nothing to do with what you claim here, because there are no charges there either. And by the way: The Examining Committee – and you should know this too – could not even look into banking for the time before the proceedings were under way, because that was a private bank at the time, and that is not possible for us at all. That is why it would be a great failure for the House here to clarify the responsibility for public oversight, which we are in charge of, what we are making the laws for. [[Congratulations with Greens and FPÖ as well as representatives of NEOS-LIF and Team Stronach.]] And these were and are the central bank and the FMA and the FIMBAG. It's not all going out in time. FIMBAG, with the bank package here, should look at how our tax money is managed in this bank package. What are they doing? - Nothing! We had to carry out a report of the Court of Auditors on the occasion of a two-thirds matter. This report is devastating – a report that you do not want to negotiate, because Mr Liebscher and Mr Wala do nothing, except to hold plausibility talks with those responsible from the banks. You know where? – Then there is only the question, in which Nobel Restaurant of Vienna. This is the work that these rulers do and what do I know how much money to spend on it! [[Congratulations with Greens and FPÖ as well as representatives of NEOS-LIF and Team Stronach.]] But not enough with it! – Okay, a very discreet President-in-Office: [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign.]] I'll be reminded of the final word! So I can only say, If you do not recognize the need for transparency and enlightenment here, you are yourself a grave of transparency – and therefore, unfortunately, parliamentarianism and a lot of democracy too! Your defense battle will certainly not go through until the end. And then we'll have that at the time when that's all clear.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8504	The next item is Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8526	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear colleagues! High house! A sentence that we often hear here or have already heard of often from the speaker's mouth, reads: The truth is reasonable to people! - You're right! But I noticed in the many discussions: The truth lies in the eye of the observer! And there are also two sides of the hypo. Depending on where you look, you can find something certain. The one side is the: The hypo is exclusively a “card story”, is the “System Haider”. Haider's munched everything, he's corrupt, he's to blame for the whole dilemma. - That's the one side. The other side is that in 2007 the hypo was sold by 1.3 billion and many investigations, opinions and financial analyses were carried out and much more was done. The truth is also that the Oesterreichische National Bank has made a test report that has found that after the losses from 2007 to 2008 the hypo 2009 will very well write profits. So at the time of the sale of the hypo, it would probably not be so bad if, for example, Tilo Berlin, who was then Chairman of the board of directors, meant: 2009 we will write 44.4 million € in profit, 2010 over 200 million! Ladies and gentlemen! What happened in the meantime? – The Bavarian Landesbank has run a completely uncontrolled growth with full risk. That's a fact! And that is where the Austrian government needs to say, Mr. Finanzminister, not to say goodbye to the responsibility, because it was a government commissioner with veto law in the Supervisory Board. And I'm really wondering, If something terrible happened there, why didn't he put in a veto? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And the Bavarian Landesbank has gone an expansion course without If and But. It has increased the balance sheet amount from 24 billion to 41 billion, almost doubled customer loans from 10.9 billion to 19 billion, and increased leasing financing from 2.9 billion to 8 billion – that is, expansion, cost it what it wants! And our commissioner was silent. Either he was incapable or he could not assess the risk. In any case, it was a political decision to put these people there who were unable to meet his responsibilities. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Now to the emergency stateization. – There are also two truths. The truth is: We had to do this to protect Carinthia to save Carinthia from bankruptcy! And the other truth is that very well, the ÖVP, says: Raiffeisen, had a massive interest in the fact that this emergency nationalisation took place. The Bayerische Landesbank has deliberately brought the hypo to ruin. She deliberately deprived the hypo of 1.1 billion. The Bavarian Minister of Finance has already said in 2008: The medium-term perspective is that we will separate ourselves from the hypo! So that wasn't by chance, that was all planned. This was a concept of Bavaria, which the Austrians did not see through and which must now ultimately finance the Austrian taxpayers. Except dispute, ladies and gentlemen, Control failed! Apart from disputes, it is said that Minister of Finance Pröll has negotiated extremely badly. He has even removed every rule of compensation from the contract, which I think was negligent. And that is why we want a committee of inquiry to clarify political responsibility. The fact is: The Austrian taxpayers now have to pay for this mismanagement of our then Minister of Finance. And the Secretary of State has given a record to the Court of Justice that he did not know about details. To be honest, if those responsible in the government rely only on so-called experts, make decisions about billions and do not know in detail. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like in the next government there to be a finance minister who really knows what he is doing and who decides justly and responsibly. [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign]] - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8614	I call Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8635	Mr President. High house! Estimated citizens at the visitor gallery and in front of the screens! With the Hypo Alpe-Adria, there are in fact numerous questions that have not been answered so far: On the one hand, regarding the removal of the ‘Bad Bank’ – my colleague Beate Meinl-Reisinger has already commented on this and outlined the necessary steps and the removal – and, on the other hand, of course, on the need for nationalization. Let me add a few comments to the emergency state. There are many open questions, but I want to take three of them. First: Dear Members of the Federal Government, answer the question – not only to us but also to the citizens of the country outside: How did it get to the emergency state? Is it true, as always, that Bavaria has threatened to destroy the Hypo Alpe-Adria? Or is it true that Bavaria never intended to make the Hypo Alpe-Adria plead, as the Bavarian Minister of Finance said in the Bavarian Landtag? Secondly, Dear Members of the Federal Government, answer the question: How did emergency nationalization go about? Is it true – as it was said – that Bavaria was approached by lawyers from several law firms and, on the other hand, the Austrian Republic was sitting there without a lawyer's office? – If that’s true, I have to say honestly: There will be fear and fear when we hear how negotiations are being conducted with us, which are about billions of euros. And on top of that: Is it true that the Republic of Austria has refrained from an accurate legal and financial examination of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, i.e. a due diligence test, before the conclusion of the purchase contract? Was that really necessary? Was the time pressure really that big? According to the survey, the problem of Hypo Alpe-Adria was never the liquidity situation. And if the bank has not been examined prior to the conclusion of the purchase contract if Due-diligence exam wasn't made before, why wasn't she done at least afterwards? In practice, there are life-related situations where a rapid conclusion is necessary and where there is no time for an accurate examination, but every economist knows that, if such a case exists, at least in the contract, one must provide for an examination to be carried out afterwards and that in the event that, in the subsequent case, things arise in one or the other direction, where there is a need for action, appropriate clauses, improvements clauses are installed. Why didn't that happen? And third, the dispute between the BayernLB, the Bavarian Landesbank, and the Hypo Alpe-Adria at the Landgericht München over at least €2.3 billion. Dear Members of the Federal Government, answer the question as to why it was not mentioned earlier that the loans the Bavarian Landesbank has given to the hypo may be capital-replaced. Then: According to the Capital Replacement Act, loans made by a shareholder in the crisis to society are equity, and they cannot be recovered. Why did you get so late? Why did you stop the payments only in 2012? Questions on questions that have remained unanswered and which have one thing in common: Citizens have a right to receive answers to these questions! And that is why we need this committee of inquiry for the Hypo Alpe-Adria. But, as we always say, we not only want to clarify, but we want to have consequences. The NEOS always want to show constructive solutions. Today we have shown you one, namely, according to the model – also according to Swiss model – an insolvency law for local authorities to approach for federal states. They have largely rejected this request and thus missed a chance. That's unfortunate. Mr Amon, as you said – your main argument, if I understood correctly; and I am right to Mr Kogler – that one cannot at the same time make the parliamentary and judicial examinations, I must say to you: [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign]] [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign again]] That's right, but there's no court proceedings in these cases! That is why this is really not an argument! That's what I'm asking myself: Are there really no better arguments against an investigation committee? This also applies to colleagues from SPÖ. That's too little!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8709	The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8724	This will not be understood by citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8760	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Dr. Nachbaur, colleagues and colleagues for the setting up of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign on this point. – That is rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: But just more!]] I would also like to mention the request made by the honourable Members. To vote for the setting up of an investigative committee. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This request is also rejected. [[17:29:04]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-03-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00006_d8e8801	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 68/A(E) to 79/A were tabled. Questions 169/J to 192/J were also raised. This meeting is closed.
