ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e3606	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take your seats, open the session and welcome our President-in-Office Dr Heinz Fischerin to our centre. [[General condolences.]] ==References====External links== 3rd meeting of 3rd meeting In December 2013, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the Members of the Third President, Ing. Hofer, Hafenecker, Dr. Winter and Frank Stronach. [[Abg. Hell: But he is not diligent!]] [[09:06:21]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e3654	The announcements from the Federal Election Authority have come that Deputies Werner Faymann, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Mag. Gerald Klug, Mag. Sonja Steßl, Rudolf Hundstorfer, Doris Bures, Dr. Michael Spindelegger, Mag. Johanna Mikl- Leitner, Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner and Sebastian Kurz have renounced their mandates. According to the Federal Electoral Authority's notice, the following persons were appointed to the National Council on the basis of the above-mentioned relinquishments: Michael Ehmann, Mag. Dr. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger, Mag. Karin Greiner, Elisabeth Hakel, Ing. Manfred Hofinger, Dr. Franz-Joseph Huainigg, Kai Jan Krainer, Ing. May. Hubert Kuzdas, Mag. Friedrich Ofenauerand Dr. Erwin Rasinger. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name through the writing, the new mandates will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now seeking the author, Mr Buchmayr, to read the vow formula. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e3750	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e3772	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[09:08:41]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e3801	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: 'Dear Madam President! I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 16. The Federal Government responsible for the continuation of the administration and the State Secretary at the Federal Chancellery, the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs, the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs and the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance, were removed from the Office on December 6, 2013.’ I take advantage of this opportunity to thank the retired members of the Federal Government and the State Secretary and to continue to wish everything good. Furthermore, there is a letter from the Federal Chancellor concerning the appointment of the members of the new Federal Government. 'Dear Madam President! I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 16. In accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, December 2013 appointed me Federal Chancellor. In addition, in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitution Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has on my proposal Dr Michael SPINDELEGGER as Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for Finance, Mr Sebastian KURZ, Federal Minister for European and International Affairs, Mr Rudolf HUNDSTORFER, Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, Mr Alois STÖGER, Federal Minister for Health, Mrs Mag. Johanna MIKL-LEITNER, Federal Minister for the Interior, Mr Univ.-Prof. Dr. Wolfgang BRANDSTETTER, Federal Minister for Justice, Mr Mag. Gerald KLUG as Federal Minister for Defence and Sport, Mr Dipl.-Ing. ANDRA RUPPrechtER as Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, Ms Gabriele HEINISCH-HOSEK, Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture, Ms Doris BURES, Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, Dr Reinhold MITTERLEHNER on the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth as well as Ms MMag. Dr Sophie KARMASIN to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs ==References== In accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal President, Mr Reinhold MIDTERLEHNER, in conjunction with Article 77(4) of the Federal Constitutional Act, was also entrusted with the management of the Federal Ministry of Science and Research. In addition, in accordance with Article 70(1), the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, has Mrs Mag. Sonja STEßL (Secretary of State/Secretary of State) Mr Mag. Jochen DANNINGER appointed State Secretary, and both joined the Federal Minister of Finance to support the management and parliamentary representation. Finally, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 16. In accordance with Article 70(1), in conjunction with Article 77(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, Dr. Josef OSTERMAYER appointed Federal Minister at the Federal Chancellery. With Best Greetings’ I wish all the members of the new Federal Government and the State Secretary the best success for their work in the service of the Republic of Austria. [[09:12:08]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e3910	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e4057	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 and 3, 4 and 5 and 6 and 7 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. I announce that this meeting will be transferred live to ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and ORF III. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e4087	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9.5 “Wiener hrs” according to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure agreed to give the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP per 128 minutes, FPÖ 119, Green 100 as well as Stronach and NEOS-LIF per 52 minutes. For the duration of the TV transmission by ORF 2 to 1 p.m., the following Rules of Procedure were agreed: Federal chancellor 40 minutes, a speaker/redner round with 12 minutes each, then the vice chancellor with 20 minutes, then a round with 6 minutes each, a member of the SPÖ government with 5 minutes, another round with each 4 minutes, a member of the government of the ÖVP with 5 minutes and another round with 4 minutes each, so that a total of 226 minutes of speaking time is provided for this part. Debates of the European Parliament FPÖ, SPÖ, Greens, ÖVP, Stronach, NEOS-LIF. It is expected that after the end of the television season in ORF 2 one or two members of the government of SPÖ and ÖVP will speak. Debates of the European Parliament We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:14:20]] 1. Point
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e4144	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item: Declaration by the Federal Government. Following this declaration, a debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the present request. I give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e4175	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mrs. National Council President! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr President of the Chamber of Commerce. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria – which is probably undisputed – is a successful country. It is a successful country because people in our country have created something that we can rightly be proud of together. Austria is a country that is economically successful and, in social matters, a model for living together in Europe. This successful country is often used in Europe as an example of the compatibility of competitiveness and social compensation. Competitiveness and social compensation must be no contrast, on the contrary, they are interdependent. Only social peace, fairness for the population is the best basis for the development of democracy. Economics and competitiveness are the best way to ensure that these social benefits, which we can be proud of together, remain eligible for funding. Therefore, a government declaration, a government programme, has the task of securing and expanding these two factors. There are currently many regions in Europe which are heavily affected by poverty, high unemployment, particularly high youth unemployment. A little more of the principle that we have achieved through common policy in Austria will also be our mission to push forward in this Europe with a strong voice from Austria. Peaceful living together also requires that citizens in their social services have the feeling that the state also has a protection function for them where they need to have a protection function where younger people of different social backgrounds have the opportunity, through education and training, to obtain the best equipment for their lives, to exercise a protection function even where older people can live from their pensions, where care, hospitalization, health care are not just available on paper, but then, if they are needed, are also available. Achieving competitiveness, finance and stable finances in a country is a difficult task in an economic crisis, and Europe is far from out of it, not even in Austria. It is not the time that, with a growth of 3, 4 and 5 percent, can refer to revenue increases, which, as well as in a form of automation, will ensure that services can be indexed, increased and improved. No, the hard task of this government together with you in the next few years is to make sure that we save and act sparingly where public budgets are required to provide high-quality services more efficiently. This must include a government agreement as well as, of course, the fullness of measures that we must jointly implement over the next five years. I would also like to thank all negotiators in this circle because I know that there are many governments, including outside experts who do not belong to any party that participate and help to establish such a basis. I also ask you to conduct this discussion constructively in the intention that we wish our country the best, and the best is to ensure, together with common strength, that these services will continue to be secured and expanded in the future, because without any change, it is not possible to hold this status, which we are so proud of. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] In comparison, Austria has the lowest unemployment rate within the European Union and is second in terms of youth unemployment. We Austrians are advanced in the Eurostat survey – easy to read for everyone – from the fifth place to the second place on the issue of economic power per capita. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] These are figures behind which there is much work: the entrepreneurs of this country, the workers, the social partners, a common policy. [[Abg. Kickl: Then we can lock up at once...!]] This is the basis for both the further development of protection provisions for workers and, on the other hand, for the improvement of competitiveness and the necessary measures. Among the necessary measures, two factors must be highlighted in particular: education, training, research and development,... [[Abg. Kickl: Ah?]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] Now we don't have at our disposal... – Look, everything you can, is a bit of a mockery! [[Abg. Kickl: He was really good!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] But I'm telling you quite honestly: Increase yourself, that best suits you and would also be very credible in your case! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] While we are talking about employment and unemployment, you are already considering your polemic, funny remarks, which, in any case, only you find funny. I am glad to be Federal Chancellor in a country where you are third place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] Stay there, or better be a little behind it! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Whoever does not understand that the strength of this country does not exist in play and in excite, has not understood the success model, the success story of Austria. Citizens have understood. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Mr Kickl and Mr Belakovich-Jenewein.]] [[Call the FPÖ: You are unworthy!]] Since the 1990s, the value of domestic exports has tripled. [[Abg. Kickl: The... Chancellor of all times!]] The interest rates for Austrian government bonds, i.e. an important statistical instrument for us not only as a self-interest, but as an essential question as to how we use our tax resources, the interest rates for Austrian government bonds show that in international markets – for those who decide on how to judge a country by either the interest rate for government bonds is among the lowest or the highest – we are judged to be the most historically low of these interest rates. [[Abg. Kickl:... zero deficit?]] This is not only due to the fact that we in our country have improved or improved one thing or another, but also to the fact that the gap in Europe has increased between those whose financial budgets and their stability are simply valued much worse than before the economic crisis, and those who have come well through the crisis, those whose finances and their budgets are assessed in a stable way, who, of course, benefit from it. Our task, therefore, is to be with those who, like Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, a few in this field of excellence, can expect low interest rates for government bonds in the future, and that is necessary. But it is only then that our hard-earned tax money in our country does not flow into higher interest rates if we also put in place the necessary measures and ensure the stability of our finances. This is a hard task, because for saving everyone is – if he is himself affected, of course, with another emotional object, than when it comes to the principle of sparing. But even this economy is not a self-interest, but it should put us in the situation that we also have the best conditions in the future not to pay in the order of about 3, 4, 5 or 6 percent interest for government bonds. 1 percent is € 2 billion a year, calculated on the duration of the bond. This alone shows how important it is that we keep the finances stable. [[Abg. Kickl: Why are you always talking only about new debts? I thought you wanted a zero deficit!]] The development of our country with regard to employment also shows that, despite increased employment and record numbers, which the Social Minister can repeatedly express by the number of employees in our country, there is cause for concern, as many of these employment relationships – especially among young people – are increasingly also in the area of precarious employment. Here is one of the challenges of society not to break up employment relations in our country into disfavor of young people, as well as in other, rich countries of Europe – I am not talking about the poorest countries, I am talking about the richest countries of Europe. This development towards these contracts among young people, where these very much are not paid off from their performance and where, when they use their employment, they do not get any security, shows that we also have a lot to do in this area together for more fairness. We must not accept it if there are injustices in society – although we know that we are not able to produce fairness with a break or a single measure – so we have also listed in this government programme a number of measures which, for example, also deliver better results in parts of the economy. The restriction on group taxation, the abolition of tax relief for managers' salaries over €500 000, the solidarity surcharge for service providers whom we have extended, the fight against tax fraud and a security contribution for privilege pensions are examples of this. Tax fraud is something that cannot be regarded as a cavalier offence, especially those who pay against their taxes with hard work and fair attitude from the Community. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] Therefore, the fight against tax fraud, including at European level, the fight against tax havens, the use of the financial transaction tax, with particular clarity also in the coming weeks, is one of the essential tasks. [[Abg. May. Rossmann:... exchange of information!]] The bank levy will be adjusted to the basis of the balance sheet, while maintaining the current income, and the rate for the special contribution to the stability levy will be increased to 45 percent at the same time. The often mentioned increase in family aid, which has also led to discussions in this House, is planned for the middle of next year, although at the same time we have increased investment in the area of benefits in kind in times of less financial room. Among the billion-height offensive measures are the expansion of childcare facilities with €350 million, flood protection measures, the expansion of daily school care with €400 million alone, research funding, housing with €276 million, care money and 24-hour care, the maintenance fund extension as well as many other areas in the infrastructure. All these things show that we unfortunately cannot afford all that we would like to do in the development and progress of our country, but that we are making investments in the right direction within our scopes. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I just want you because Of course, you can also find increases in the tax field in this government agreement, saying that we did not go a way that, let me say, most of the other countries of the European Union have done very well, namely the increase in VAT. We know that any increase from the citizen who pays it is seen as an increase and therefore, clearly, a burden, but the increase in VAT is a particularly unfair measure, which, and I would like to tell you, not only is used as a measure by countries such as Greece, Italy, Croatia, Spain – that is, countries of southern Europe with major financial problems – in order to counter it, no, it was also increased in Finland to 24 percent in 2013, it was increased in the Netherlands, one of the richest countries in Europe, but it was also increased to 27 percent in our neighbours, for example in the Czech Republic, Slovenia or Hungary. This is a measure which works quickly for the tax authorities, for the financial authorities, because simply the cash register is being changed, but it taxes households to a very unsocial extent, because those who have very little available to live spend here a large proportion of their household income available to them. [[Abg. Kickl: What about the mineral oil tax, Mr. Bundeskanzler?]] In addition to these measures, we have acted in the knowledge that every increase has an impact – everyone, and I do not want to talk a little bit, even an adjustment that has not happened for many years, I do not want to mention. On the other hand, however, there is an adjustment, for example, in the area of commuting fees which we have made. So we are also trying to counteract where target groups can precisely increase and improve the mobility of workers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] If we take the chapter of all-day schools as an example, where there is a great deal of agreement in this House, that the development of the school is very strong about strengthening the management of the respective school, i.e. the director, works, but on the other hand also the possibility of full-day support in the school, this direction, this development represents a progress, an improvement for our children, for the students in our country, then we also want to set comprehensive examples in this expansion of all-day school locations where we say: We do not wait for a majority to arrive at some point in a difficult vote, but we want to offer school classes in the regions all day long, including school classes with limited education. – Of course, the requirement for the class to be established is that there is the minimum number of 15 students who also make use of it. And I know that many experts in all-day school forms say clearly that this is one of the main differences with the successful countries, i.e. those that are in front of us in the PISA study – and one should also look at exactly where one needs an improvement, and if one uses the difference, then the whole-day school is a key to success – but I know that there is no such comprehensive agreement in the population here, although one has the advantage, in particular in the restricted teaching, that one does not need the follow-up teachers because there is a great deal of funding, support, even compensation for discrimination. Many parents in our country are not yet so convinced of this school model, but I believe that with the examples we set, we maintain the principle of voluntaryness and, with this principle of voluntaryness, we are particularly promoting this model. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The reduction in the number of students and the extension of the New Secondary School have created a number of basics on which we can build. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz.]] ==References====External links== Year of life, training beyond compulsory schooling is something that is very busy with us when we analyze more why young people are unemployed. There is a need for re-examination, particularly in the area of minimum qualifications and school qualifications. The follow-up to this compulsory education course, on the one hand, and on the other, an improvement in dual training, which we would need across Europe for the training of skilled workers, are at the top of the agenda. Another point is fairness in the labour market in all areas, for example, by restricting so-called all-in contracts that are not worth the expression, because “all-in” would mean that is also inside, which is legally meant but with which often only hidden services from employees are not paid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] All these things that have to do with correctness, fairness, need to be developed together, together with the social partners of our country, because “jointly” means to respect themselves, means that conflicts of interest are not concealed, not ruined, but solved in a constructive, common way. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] For older workers, a bonus malus system creates incentives for companies to recruit older employees. We know – I can tell you again – that if we want to raise the actual retirement age by 1.7 years by 2018, we will need a benefit that has never occurred in our country in a comparable period. The highest was an increase of one third of the period we have taken up for the actual increase in the retirement age. However, there is also a requirement for these jobs, and that is why the bonus-malus system is an example where we can learn from other countries. I don't think of this statement: We live in our own country, and what is the other thing about us in this world? – Whoever is so narrow will not achieve anything in science, will not achieve anything in the economy, nor in sports, by the way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] This openness to other systems and countries is therefore important. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And this is particularly true of the bonus malus system for older workers that there are countries that have created models where the value of older workers is significant, and where it is also a basic social policy setting to say: We are not only talking about how long someone should work, but we – economics and community – feel committed together to ensuring that there are these jobs too. That is why I attach particular importance to the question of expanding and strengthening the discussion on older workers in our own country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now many will ask: But what if you don't reach this goal? [[Abg. Kickl: That wouldn't be the first time! If you fail, you have experience!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: In peace lies the power!]] What if, with the measures you have put in place and you want to put them in place, and with the dedicated implementation, also those decisions which we have already taken to a large extent or which are in implementation – the sample of nails also consists of how something is to be implemented – does not reach the goal of increasing the actual retirement age? – Then we know that as a government we do not simply have to present a recipe book, but of course point for point where something does not work as we plan it or have to re-adjust it as it is necessary for the country. This is no special feature of the fact that, when something goes out of the row, we stand down and explain which of our measures work particularly well, which have been particularly well taken and which are improved and improved. This is also to happen in a spirit of commonness and team ability. I would like to highlight two examples regarding the health sector or the compatibility of family and work, where it is important to say to citizens that the tax level we have as one of the richest countries in Europe is also used to ensure that we have a record level of childcare places and will further increase them by developing them. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is important to close these white spots, which still exist, where one is talking about the compatibility of work and family, where, in a European comparison, the employment rate is so much used as an economic and financial factor, which is also so important to the question of how much is paid in a payment system for the next generation, also as a question of the progress of a society. This compatibility of family and profession requires the further expansion of childcare places. I am also on an essential point which addresses cooperation with the federal states. In our country, if we take federalism seriously, it will have to give close and good cooperation and enforcement of our interests between the federal, regional and local authorities in order to carry out these tasks, which are often carried out by several people through the distribution of competence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This includes transparency. If we cannot say clearly today, because we often do not know what individual promotions there are for citizens, for individual businesses at national or local level – without envy! – then we have to create transparency here so that in the future, in the spirit of solidarity, the right things will be what we have defined together as objectives. [[Abg. Kickl: But beware, that's the envy you've been talking about! That's how you put it!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The area of agriculture, rural areas, the diversity of our country and the necessary respect for this area in our society must also be reflected in this close cooperation. It makes no sense for one to have the necessary respect for the workers or for the railways, and the other to have the necessary respect for the people who work in the agricultural field. We need respect in our society as the basic value of commonness. That's what we're going to learn from our story. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the field of health care, therefore, care is of particular importance because people are getting older, but also because the high employment rate of women has changed somewhat because of what was previously not always very fair in the role model, but the fact that women have taken care of family members, because of the increasing work of women and the progress made in our society, since they are also economically active. The fact that this area of care, home care, mobile care, consideration and promotion is needed so that people can stay and be cared for at home for as long as possible is a focus of the work of the next five years, which also has to do with respect, especially most of the natural elderly people in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To the environment. If we want to deliver in the field of renewable energy, if we want to live up to our pioneering role in our common opposition to nuclear power plants, then we are called upon to show, especially in the area of thermal insulation, in other words, the efficiency improvement and saving of energy, but also in the development of renewable energy, starting in research, which proves that it was right in Austria not to rely on nuclear energy, and that it is right not to rely on nuclear energy in Europe. [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] [[Abg. Kickl: It was right not to put on the socialists!]] Science and research. Many areas that have to do with the fact that we have to answer key questions about the future of our society are being pushed forward by committed representatives together with the government members responsible for this, because the question of how strong a country is in its innovative power must, of course, find a special precipitation here. However, I would also like to thank, ladies and gentlemen, those who have worked in the government so far. And I know her work wasn't easy, especially when it came to savings. In recent years, we have tried to lead Austria through the crisis with a consolidation course – the governor of the Austrian National Bank Novotny has said we have set a good example here – with a consolidation course that takes into account the purchasing power of the people taking into account the investment power of the country and which, unlike other countries, has been driven forward in a moderate but consistent way. [[Abg. Kickl: Which party is he from?]] Many of these colleagues, who have worked for us in the government in the recent past, have done a great deal here. I want to join Dr. Claudia Schmied, at Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter, at Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich, at Univ.-Prof. Dr. Beatrix Karl, at Univ.-Prof. Dr. Karlheinz Däderle, at Mag. Andreas Schiederund thank Dr. Reinhold Lopatka for the most heartfelt. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] Finally, I would like to draw your attention to one point that I have mentioned several times. The budgetary scope we want to create, whether it be for tax reform or for measures to improve our health system or our social services, will only exist if we modernise in the administration. We intend to create these scopes with the through-forestation of subsidies and promotions in order to be able to implement much of what we want in common. This begins with individual measures such as the gearing for children whose parents cannot afford the gears, and goes to research and development, where we still have much more to invest, in order to put this so important key to the innovative power of our society with significantly more resources. We are also lacking in the fight against poverty at many points and ends for what is necessary from the heart and commitment and from how the society of a country should define itself. [[Abg. New builder: This is a shame!]] We are therefore making these modernisations in order to also create the necessary room for greater fairness, for greater justice in our country. I am therefore convinced and would like to conclude that our home country, which we can be so proud of, is best developed if we take responsibility together.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e4622	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. We are going into the debate on the Government Declaration. First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. For this round, the speaking time is 12 minutes each. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e4652	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mrs National Council President! Mr President of the Chamber of Commerce! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the television screens! I believe that now everyone who can follow this live today has been able to take a picture of an ambition that is quite equal to it. Because what we have been presented here can only be described as ambitious. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At that time, the previous government program from 2008 included at least 267 pages, while we now find 122 pages with headlines and with no essential content. And you wonder what has actually been negotiated in the last two months when you consider this government programme in terms of content. I tell you, in terms of content, it is more than manageable not to mention the fact that it leaves the emptiness behind. Of course, this is quite positively formulated in headings, but we miss essential core contents that it needs. Of course, a few proposals and headings that you have in the Government's programme can be discussed in a positive and reasonable way, but at best you are dealing with minimal problems, with a sea of unsolved projects and silenced needs that we are missing here, namely the need for administrative reform, a state reform, a health reform. And I don't hear from you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are the pressing problems, right up to a budget hole that has been completely silent today. The reactions go from “this is not enough for five years”, as Mr Wifo-chef Aigerer said, to “complete pot” if I may quote the President of the Chamber of Commerce, who could obviously be right here. The human occupation of this government has also created a number of inconsistencies in the public. The fact that an independent ORF expert has now been used as PR-gag as a narrow-track minister, who only takes responsibility for a small area, a single section, while on the other hand, economic ministers have been served daughters, which is quite symptomatic of a certain inadequacies, otherwise one cannot assess it. With regard to the Minister for Justice, Mr Brandstetter: There are quite a few interesting clients to whom we can refer, from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to Mr Fischer and to Mr Aliyev, to whom there seems to have been a certain close relationship. I only remember what Trara did at the time when the independent Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer was employed, because he once represented Dr. Jörg Haider. So you have to remember that again and again. And then there's Mr. Kurz. I am not saying anything to his person, he has made a good and remarkable figure in the past years despite his young age. But if you use Mr Kurz as a Foreign Minister now, without diplomatic experience, that is something you can only wonder about. This is a continuation of the withdrawal of Austrian foreign policy, which we also had to experience in a embarrassing way at the funeral Mandelas. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] It is probably now that he has made his training at Humboldt for the Foreign Minister quickly over Christmas. But, of course, being ridiculous at home and abroad is the case with God. This is a certain Kasperl Theatre, which can be very well done in terms of content as well as in terms of personnel. There are also two new State Secretarys. The remaining faces are well known. There must also be no expectation that there will be berry locusts on the side of the opposition. For this government – let us take a new term – the “inability presumption” applies. There is a lot to be said about us: both in terms of content and in terms of personnel, no innovations that are suitable to cope with the existing crisis. And I completely missed today, Federal Chancellor, that you mention that 1.2 million Austrians live on the poverty line. I have completely missed the fact that you are concerned that we are facing a record unemployment which the head of the labour market is seriously afraid of, and rightly feared, because There will again be an east expansion of the labour market towards Romanians and Bulgarians, which will result in further displacement processes and wage dumping. I have not heard anything like that, and that is exactly what is really a witness to poverty. Ungenerated, you have broken all your election promises from SPÖ and ÖVP and are now speaking to each other according to the motto: The other one has prevented that, that and what we wanted! – That’s not a concept. It is no wonder, therefore, that today there is massive unrest in the SPÖ, but also in the ÖVP, not only in some federal states and forerunners, but also in the middle functional area, and above all in the electorate. And I can only say that I invite all the reasonable forces in the future of the Future Party, namely the Freedom Party, to give confidence. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say this openly, because the next opportunity will come very soon, in May of the election to the European Parliament, where it would be necessary to miss this government's first strong idea for what you have presented today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] After years of downtime under red and black, there is obviously a need for extensive and substantial reforms in Austria, and one has to remind one again: a state reform, an administrative reform. The Court of Auditors has made 599 proposals! – Nothing has been implemented in recent years. I can't see anything about ambition in this government programme. What I would have expected in terms of content would really be a list of the necessary reform steps with a clear date, where one says that 2014 we are implementing a health reform, implementing an education reform, 2015 will be the next steps. [[Abg. Wöginger: Have we already! You weren't there again, where we decided!]] I would have liked clear rules, but there is nothing like that in this government programme. With tax increases and questionable personal cosmetic tricks, we will not get out of the crisis, but we will only reinforce this crisis. It is one of our main criticisms that there is nothing to read from a fundamental administrative reform. There is also nothing to be found in this government programme from the cutting-off of the subsidy jungle. And here we are European champions with 6.5 percent of the gross domestic product when it comes to subsidies. It can also be assumed with certainty that no wage tax reduction will occur during the entire legislative period. And that's fatal! As a result, the wage tax burden on workers will automatically increase every year through the cold progression and we will experience a development here, where the current wage tax revenue of approximately €26 billion will experience an automatic increase of €800 million per year. This means additional €200 a year for each employee in taxes, and this is an additional burden for 4 million payers. Of course, we need to talk about new hidden, additional tax burdens, which means that the labour factor is further massively burdened instead of being relieved. There we must start, namely the economy, the small and medium-sized enterprises, to relieve performance providers in order to break through this cycle of the economic crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say it again, it is a reality that, because of this cold progression, there will be a hidden wage tax increase in the next five years of at least €4 billion. Only in this segment! In addition, there are also the advanced increases in the tax on sparkling wine, alcohol tax, tobacco tax, including the NOVA. I would like to remind you of the fact that before joining the European Union, it was agreed that: If we join, the NoVA will be abolished! – To date, the NoVA has not been abolished – quite the contrary, we are today the only ones in Europe who have to pay for this nonsense. And, of course, that's what you're doing. That's a plumsy pulsation – otherwise you can't even describe it. When it comes to adjustments to inflation that are necessary, it is also being operated on here, namely serving people with extra burdens. If you are talking about family reliefs and if you are talking about increasing family allowances in the near future, I tell you that there has not even been an inflation adjustment in the last ten years, and it will not take place next year! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is called cold expropriation on the back of people. You can't say that otherwise. Unfortunately, what you have presented today means to God’s further standstill, to deny reality, to constantly push on necessary reforms into the future. This is similar to in the field of medicine, because it is no different in society: It doesn't matter if you're going to dangle away, shut down everything and try to talk things up. Sometime you'll be caught up with the truth. And I tell you, Mr Faymann, the truth will also overtake you, but unfortunately, God does not mean good for Austria. One can only say: bad, worse for Austria, what you have presented today. It would therefore have been good if, after the budget lie you have done to the Austrian people, you had the courage to take the step not to read a government statement today, but to stand up and say bravely, yes, we are going into new elections and let the citizens decide again after they now know the truth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is available today cannot be described as anything other than an endowment for Austria, and we fear that what we have had to experience in the last five years under red and black will now continue for another five years. I say very consciously, that reminds of a Hollywood strip, which then finds a continuation and finds a continuation. As a rule, these Hollywood tires, which always find a continuation, are not necessarily better than the first part in the continuation. And that's exactly what you're afraid of. I fear that for the next five years we will experience some additional burdens, consequences and increases. But I tell you that the invoice is determined, and I can promise you one thing, over the next five years we will be the strongest opposition force in this House, representing the interests of the Austrians in a consequence that you too, Mr Bundeskanzler, will of course react excitedly. Yes, but always if you're upset, like today, then we've met with you on the wound point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is exactly the crucial point that we will be meeting over and over again in the next few years, because of course you have responsibility for the last five years, and you, with today's government programme and the government declaration you presented, also bear the main responsibility for the coming years. You will have the responsibility to lay down. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I can only promise you one thing: If you have done as bad as you have done in the last five years, Mr Faymann, you can only do it better, and we liberals will also do better in the future! That's our responsibility. We are aware of this responsibility, we are going to live this responsibility, and we invite all Austrians who want to finally overcome this red and black standstill government in the future, to take action together with us. The next elections, such as those to the European Parliament and the next country elections, will be held, and you will already be presented with the invoices.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e4757	Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators now speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e4779	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Old-fashioned people like those who have new functions or who have taken their first place here on the government bank for the first time! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Strache! I have the impression that instead of the government program, you have read the “Hörzu” because what you have told us sounds like a series of continuations and all these things. This is not a subject matter of discussion with the government programme! Their discussion was apparently found in the television magazine and nowhere else! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To say the same thing: The measure of political quality is not the number of pages, but what you have to do is store the paper and read it through and think through what it contains and what projects it contains. A content discussion is not to look at the bottom right at how many pages the document has and whether it is perhaps less than the last time. This is not a serious debate! The serious issue is to read through the whole and to present content points here. The only thing we have heard from you is “More and more administrative reform!” and we also have to say: If one deals with it in detail, one would get on with it much, much more. I may mention: With regard to the reduction of additional wage costs, two measures have been put in place in this government programme, namely the Insolvency Fee Fund and the AUVA contribution, which also enables employers to reduce the additional wage costs. [[Abg. Kickl: Zero comma how much percent?]] I would also like to mention the extension of childcare facilities, health services, kindergartens and school full-day care, to a limited extent. That is, the mandatory full-day offer of at least one class in schools is a pedagogical progress we have achieved for a long time. Similarly, the increase in family support, which was briefly challenged but fortunately will come in the middle of next year, is also an important measure for Austria's families. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With the papal month, all young fathers will have the opportunity to be at home after the birth of their child, throughout the economy, not only in the public service. A second free kindergarten year for four to five years is to be introduced. In the administrative sector, which you are so intensively concerned with, the Federal Government Office is a milestone in the administrative reform: The individual ministries will link their administrative units in such a way that more efficiency can be created here and parallelities can be abolished. It is also important to reduce double-tracks, promote the transparency database and force the research location. Only 2 percent of the gross domestic product is planned for universities and specialized universities in the plan by 2020. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Also a word: I am a little pained by the fact that the quality debate at Austria's universities, which we need to conduct, and in the context of which there are still many questions to be solved, is now being reduced to the distribution of resources alone. – We have experienced a lot in history, and you can question everything. We have already experienced the Ministry of Science together with traffic and other areas. Depending on the political taste, one may feel that a resort is better managed alone or not alone. But first of all, it is about the persons acting, and I am sure that Reinhold Mitterlehner will be an excellent science minister, and second of all, about the practical approach in this area. For me, higher education is more than just the question of belonging. I mean, it's about the content, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Health: I am very glad that the Ministry of Health has remained an independent ministry, because the Minister of Health has been the person who has worked with the social security agencies and has done something about which one has previously said that this will never succeed. But it was successful! And if measures are still being taken such as the dental clamps as a cash service for the children of families who cannot afford to do so, then this is another milestone in health safety in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] It is also part of the children's and youth health passport for the seven to 18-year-olds, which also brings substantial progress. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: All these are just explanations of intent!]] Living area: Dwelling, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of a period of government there is once a government programme, in the course of the reigning period there will be laws, and at the end of a period of government there is a record of success. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: There's nothing there at all!]] That's how this government will work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the residential area, there will be a reforestation of the rental right so that there is a good protection for the tenants again. In the same way, we also plan the boosting of the new construction services. The 276 million have already been mentioned. This means 48 000 new apartments, both renovation and new construction. In the pension area, we advocate an increase in the actual retirement age, but at the same time it must be said that the increase from 58.4 to 60.1 years is the highest increase that has ever occurred with regard to the actual retirement age. But it is also important to stress the safety in this regard. We do not stand for cuts in the pension area. We are in favour of the older generation having the certainty that pensions are stable, but today's young generation at the same time also has the security that the families of this generation, when they are old, have a pension from which they can live. This material security in old age is a matter of our hearts, and we will not be outraged at it either! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Freedom of information instead of official secrecy is a very important project: This will change a lot in the future in the political discussion with the ministries. This also applies to the economic issues which have been central in recent weeks. Yesterday, the Chairman of the Fiscal Council, in turn, stressed: That zero deficit or structurally balanced budget 2016 is possible. This is an objective of this government which is being sought. At the same time, however, we will also seek a tax reform, because the reduction in the entry tax rate from 36.5 percent to 25 percent, the reduction of the entire progression curve and the reduction of workers in this country are very important projects. In this context, there will also be a reform path with which these measures will be implemented by 2015/2016, which means a massive relief and at the same time structural change in our wage tax system. This will become easier and also more economic growth and job-friendly, and at the end of the day more people will remain in the bag. In the tax field, however, many exceptions which have been considered unfair are also to be abolished. This includes the tax advantage of the “golden handshake”, which includes the limitation of the deductibility of manager salaries with 500 000 as well as the higher allocation amounts for service luxury cars and the extension of the solidar levy for particularly high incomes in our country. This also concerns the restriction of group tax on what is economically useful, as well as the abolition of social tax, which is also a measure that benefits the economy. And the reduction of investment profits to real real investment is also something that will help not only the government budget in the medium term, but also growth. To prevent tax fraud and tax evasion and to combat tax fraud is also a very important point, which has been given an international dimension especially in recent years. We all know about the discussion of how much tax “Starbucks” pays in comparison to the small espresso around the corner and how the big international corporations manage to shift their tax burden. There will also be a lot of things to do. That means: If you take control of the government programme and look at the measures, then you can see that there are some projects here. But I also know that the journalists and commentators have never found a great coalition exciting and sexy. The commentators always consider the cooperation of the two traditional parties SPÖ and ÖVP to be a bit boring. But precisely this boredom, at the end, means stability for our country, and we need it in the economic crisis period. Stability is a fundamental condition which so many other countries in Europe and in the world miss. And we can be glad that at the same time we have social security, secure pensions and a labour market for which we strive, but also a functioning economy that creates employment and also brings the taxes we need. That means: You here as a member of the opposition, but also the viewers at home on television should not only give this government a chance, but above all measure them in their actions and their work. Then you will see that this government will bring Austria well through the times!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e4914	The next item is Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e4935	Madam President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! “ bringing Austria safely through the times” was now the motto of the SPÖ Klubobman. – You haven’t had it easy now when you start, you have to say that! The comments were sometimes very, very bad and very, very critical! That's what it said: ‘Contract without a future!’ and ‘The Last Great Coalition’. “What do they want to continue?” – Words such as “reform minimists”, “prevent and not allow”. It also said: “Most of the energy goes on it to prevent something from happening to the others!” “With the fairness of marriage digressors, the state of state finances has been turned away.” – So there were very strong comments on the start of your government. If you try to read the Government Convention half-neutral and openly, you will of course also find positive things, and I would like to expressly advance them now. It is good to make manager salaries only more than €500 000 tax deductible. The question is: Why was that even so? This question must also be asked. The projects relating to the development of full-day school forms, the development of social services and care are also to be positively assessed, and the plans for the People's Desire and Information Freedom Act are also welcome. However, we could have decided that even in the last legislative period before the summer. It's a bit more explicit than that: The second free kindergarten year is a very important relief measure for families. – But it is all subject to a reservation of funding. Everything, the entire government agreement, is subject to a reservation of funding. ‘Reservation of financing’ is the new word for ‘budget hole’. And that's actually dramatic, because you spoke of the zero deficit yourself. But that is only possible if all the positive things are not realized. That means: There is actually a fixed standstill. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There will be a lot of energy to avoid leaving Austria to the standstill. I mean, for the next five years, Austria – if you look at it objectively in the international comparison – is not very bad. That's to be recognized. But we have many major areas of problem, with regard to which, as I believe, the patience of the population has already been greatly exhausted, above all in the field of education. In this regard, there is a rupture in this coalition agreement, which hurts me very much and which is very painful: The whole area, which concerns young people, is absolutely under-exposed. In the field of education, there are small solutions instead of really making the big throw. The science resort is simply abolished. The universities no longer have a competent authority representing their interests, representing research, science, the freedom of science. [[Abg. Kickl: The Ministry of Science has been laid out in the basement of the Ministry of Economic Affairs!]] This also applies to social issues: The question of the upgrading of the solidarity contribution in the pension account She joins the young and the youngest in the future of her pensions – and I think this is particularly unolidarian! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In my view, this very wrong situation is the most serious: Especially the young generation is neglected in all that it actually needs – new framework conditions, fresh money for universities, a really big throw in education. But, I think, in the last few hours of the negotiations, you have allowed each other to shoot out the other project. And that's the character of this coalition: It is about the circumstances of red and black, the state of the parties, and not about solutions for our country. And that is sad and sad! What would have been necessary? . If one seriously asks the question which is the most important objectives for the next five years, then, as I believe, it is first and foremost to mention that education in particular must be equipped in such a way that we guarantee the best opportunities for the future for the young people and the young people. And this is not the case in this coalition agreement! I would also have expected more in the area as a whole to deal with future opportunities, green jobs, energy efficiency and climate protection, for example, in view of the fact that for the first time a whirlwind has taken place on European soil. We now have a new Minister for the Environment and Agriculture. However, from my point of view, the environmental chapter is the weakest we have ever had in Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am also again on a structural question: In 2000, the Ministry of the Environment was abolished as its own ministry. We have seen the result, namely, for ten years conflicts of interest between agricultural policy and environmental policy. And now you do exactly the same with science! Today, we will give you the opportunity, with the naughty vote of a motion for a resolution, not to agree to this abolition of the independent scientific unit. This gives you a chance to do something even better. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] All the new people in this government deserve a fair chance from my point of view. Everyone and anyone sitting on this government bank deserves a fair chance. However, we will look very closely at the environment. We have already experienced how it is when people from the agricultural sector have to deal with the environment. Keywords: Bees. So be warned and be careful! We can get up here, too. This will be a very critical debate! It is interesting that the Ministry of Science has been sacrificed for the question of the family ministry. However, as a modern woman, Sophie Karmasin, we will be happy to support you if you make modern family policy. However, the requirements with this only section are very limited, and the concern that this is exclusively a PR ministry is very large. But in the case of modern family policy, you also have our support against the ÖVP! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Brandstetter, it is, of course, a very interesting change in roles, as a criminal defender to sit here at once as head of the prosecutors. I think that the question of the right of guidance and the independence of the prosecutor's office has never been as well on the test as it is now. It is precisely this question that we are taking on the occasion today for an excuse from us Greens. I'm just saying, We'll be You also observe very closely from the point of view of your role-change, and we think that this is a good opportunity to request an independent Advocate General or an independent Advocate-General or Advocate-General and to abolish the law of the Minister of Justice vis-à-vis the prosecutors. Now we really have the opportunity to do that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What do we expect for the next five years? – I say something in advance: In any case, you have the support of the Greens in positive reform projects, no question! But I have to say something very critical. There is no single sentence for the extension of control rights in this entire coalition agreement – not a single sentence! – and this is a witness of poverty! You know how long we have been dealing with the question here, which is actually the task of Parliament. – And it is the duties of all Members of Parliament to exercise control, not only of the members of the opposition, but also of the members of the government. It cannot be that the Committee of Inquiry, as a minority law and the upgrading of Parliament, is completely ignored and excluded by this government. We will ensure that these questions are addressed! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Embarrassed Resistance From Us You can also learn from us when it comes to lifting the Constitutional Legislator here in the house. They make direct agreements with the countries – which is hidden under the keyword of modernisation of Article 15a agreements – directly conclude agreements with the countries and no longer submit competence issues and constitutional issues to the Constitutional legislator. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is undemocratic!]] On the other hand, we are bitterly resisting! And I also ask other opposition parties to ensure that it is not possible to undermine the National Council and the Constitutional Legislator in this way! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They certainly have the support of the Greens in some positive projects – and I do not want to repeat them again. But then you must be so honest and really put on the table the financial situation of this federal government and the financial situation of the Republic. With a reservation of funding, all this will not be realized, it simply does not go out together, and that is a shame. Think of the many people who have to think about just before Christmas, how they may be able to heat an additional living room, how they can buy gifts for their children! Thinking You know what they've trained all about savings packages over the past five years! Especially families with several children did this very much. Keywords: Family allowances. I remember all the cuts in this area. Take responsibility and do everything you can to offer these people something for the next five years! And really look at what is actually possible – even from my point of view – in re-transmission and social justice! This is also an open point, which is included in your Government Convention: It needs a stronger contribution from the rich and the rich in Austria to support exactly the families who now do not know how to name them! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Today we will make a request for an independent science ministry. I assume that perhaps some Tyrolean Members can agree to this too – Mr Exminister Däderle perhaps. I believe that this is a wise decision to resist in this causa again. I urge the government once again to reconsider this question. It can only be a terrible error, I say, something as valuable as the independence of science, simply to economicize the freedom of science and research and simply to attract them to the economic resort. And the argument is wrong that it is about pooling research agendas. You all know that very well: The research agendas are still not bundled! They continue to be found in the BMVIT, in the field of agriculture – thus no trace of bundles! It was only a party-internal consideration: One needed the new family minister, one needed a place for her, and therefore the science resort was sacrificed as an independent ministry. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Look at what has become of the environment, take this as an example! And take, as a warning example, our resistance in this area too!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e5075	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Lopatka, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e5096	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in the plenary room and on the screens! Right at the beginning, three remarks to you, Mrs. Klubobfrau Glawischnig: First: They have addressed the character of the coalition. I'll tell you: This coalition will work together as best as possible and professionally. That will be the character of this government! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, The Greens may want ministers from the test tube. We want ministers coming out of the middle of life! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Passt eh!]] And our three new Federal Ministers are coming from the middle of life – and that is the decisive thing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] And thirdly, I also need to address you in your role as “the upper teacher of the nation”. Even before this government can begin its work of distributing evidence of poverty, it is premature. It's too early! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: public opinion!]] But let me start with a little more basic: The First Republic... [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Read the Austrian daily newspapers!]] The First Republic was one of which we said: That was a state nobody wanted! The Second Republic is a success story to this day. [[Further calls to the Greens.]] And over the next five years, we want this success story, which characterizes Austria, to continue. This is the main task of the Federal Government! But this is also the task of all 183 Members to support it as best as possible. It should be our common concern to try to achieve cooperation here. Yes, we have different programmes, different ideas, how Austria can stay at the top of Europe and can thus remain the world’s peak, which should also be common to us, that is an optimistic basic attitude – and now do not call out the collective depression here and speak badly! This is completely wrong access! We should be optimistic about the challenges! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The depression is at the ÖVP.]] We have great challenges that we face. And the government programme – and the quality is the decisive part of this government programme and not the number of pages! – this government programme is a good basis for keeping Austria at the top of the European Union in the next five years. [[Keeping the same in height]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] For us, for the Austrian People's Party, what are the priorities and also the priorities of this Federal Government? – We negotiated this very well with the SPÖ. The first point I think is very crucial: No new debts. – A very ambitious goal! No federal government in the past has made this sustainable. A year to achieve a zero deficit is wonderful, but the decisive thing is to create a zero deficit permanently. And we want to achieve this in 2016 – an ambitious goal, which requires every minister to be very economical in dealing with means of taxation, but which also requires reforms from every minister. Without reforms, this goal cannot be achieved! Second: There are also large cost drivers due to demographic development. From 2008 to 2013 we had an increase of 12 billion to 16 billion in pensions in our budget. That is why we have made every effort to establish a very detailed path that is intended to create a flattening here. The Federal Chancellor has already mentioned it in his speech: Since 1970, life expectancy in Austria has increased by more than ten years. On the other hand, however, the retirement age has dropped by one year. Such a development cannot be financed in the long run. Our common goal is to reverse this trend: to achieve for the first time that the actual retirement age increases more than life expectancy. And we will do that because from the very first day on, we will look very closely at whether these measures, which we have agreed, actually bring forward these progress. And what do we want to achieve? – Not the pensions of my generation and those of the 60-, 70-, 80-year-olds secure these pensions, but we want to secure our good pension system for the boys, for the 20-, 30-, 40-year-olds. That's our goal! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As Christian Democrats, the families are also a heart concern, so I am very glad that we here – and my colleague Glavischnig, you have not read the programme carefully. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes! Yes!]] No, because when it comes to child care, when it comes to day care, there is no reservation of funding! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes!]] The 750 million are set aside without reservation. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: All the measures provided for in the government programme are subject to a reservation of funding!]] These measures are discontinued without reservation! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: All projects!]] We will soon discuss the 2014 budget, the increase in child support will come, and a third point will be added, which is very, very important to us: the second kindergarten year, free for all, mandatory for those who need it. This is another focus here! It is important for us to think of all the population groups, but also of all the regions. I come from a rural area. My constituency in East Styria is a constituency where agriculture is still of great importance and where EU rural development programmes are equally important. Therefore it was important to us to co-finance 50 : 50. This too has been successful! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the most important point I come last, and the most important point is that: We will only make all of this when growth is back on track, because only with growth can we fight unemployment. Yes, unemployment also has a stand in Austria, and we would be glad if it were a little lower. Nevertheless, we are glad that, for years now, the unemployment we have in Austria has been the lowest in the EU. We must do everything we can to create growth, because only with growth can we create jobs, new jobs, only by doing so there are appropriate incomes, appropriate taxes and also the possibility of keeping people longer in the work process. However, the government programme can only have in mind foreseeable things, but in politics it is also crucial to react to unforeseen things correctly and quickly. For this to happen, strong personalities who then resist this pressure, who are happy to decide, who also have the necessary nerve strength, need to be ready especially in crisis situations. And the new team of the ÖVP is a team formed by such personalities. Vice chancellor Michael Spindelegger has decided to run the financial unit, and the decision of him was logical and correct. Why do I say that? – Because at the end of the day in politics – and I have now noticed this in the negotiations – the financial position is always the financial one, and financial issues are the main issue, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is not a good quote for the Minister of Finance: “At the end of the day”!]] That's why it's true that the head of our government group is in charge of this department. He is supported by Jochen Danninger, who has cooperated with Maria Fekter and me in nightly meetings with Collaborator Ostermayer and others on the budget path until 2018 and is already well prepared for this purpose in the Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where is it at all? He's not here at all! This is a secret path! I think that's funny!]] Johanna Mikl- Leitner has shown in recent years that she is successful and also with strong women's hand the important security resort, which is the Ministry of the Interior. Reinhold Mitterlehner now has a great job to do – and you have already been very busy with it – because he now has a large future location, because economy and science are key tasks to keep Austria at the forefront of the European Union. It has rightly been commented that Reinhold Mitterlehner takes over a man who has a strong awareness of the importance of research and science, is well-connected and has always been an asset in the government. He brings along the conditions for initiating lighthouse projects in science, it is said. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] As you have been so excited, Mrs Glawischnig – you know for sure, but you are hiding it –: From 1996 to 2007, the scientists were first in the transport resort with Federal Minister Scholten, then with Federal Minister Caspar Einm and afterwards with Liesl Gehrer. She still had the educational agenda and the cultural field to care for. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This also fits together better!]] And both ministers, Liesl Gehrer and Caspar One, see it as quite positive that science and the economy, because they have a head of the department, are now moving closer together. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Party logic! Just party logic!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Black is black!]] But this is already the whole change, because no single service post will be lost in the science department and no single cent will be lost in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But the Minister!]] This is very important, ladies and gentlemen, and this also applies to our new ministers, Sebastian Kurz, who is a thorn in the eye of the opposition. Strengthened by 36 000 preferred votes, he is now going to the foreign sector. Wolfgang Brandstetter, a minister of justice who has been told that he will be a real heavyweight in the government – a highly respected university professor who knows the field of justice and will therefore also take the appropriate measures. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Can you say! But he remembers a few others too!]] The family resort is very important to us. In addition to the content measures, the family resort now also has a face with Sophie Karmasin, a successful entrepreneur who knows both sides: the family, but also the task of providing 40 employees with framework conditions in a company that family and profession are compatible. So a very, very strong team in total! Families need our support – and we also need, I tell you, the families! There is no institution that is as important to a society as functioning families. I'm absolutely convinced of that. And they deserve their own ministry! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Last to Andrä Rupprechter. – Andrä Rupprechter has been welcomed as a real expert – an internationally trained man who will support us here – in the weekly “profile” that the government sees as critical! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] ‘Successful. Austria.” – This is our common task! This is the task of the new Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e5486	Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e5509	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President! Mr. Chancellor! Minister! High house! There are many headlines in the government program, but there are also some positive headings, but one thing I don't like: It's all under reservation! And this is a bit disappointing from the outcome after the weeks of negotiations! If one takes these declarations of intent seriously, it must be noted that this government failed in economic terms even before its fishing visit. Then: Many proposals are a penalty for all providers in our country, for the economy and for all working people. It almost seems as if in Austria almost nothing had become as dangerous as performance. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The less money is generated in this country, the less money there is for the socially weak. I think the future is going to be more unsocial, and I'm worried about that. This government program has little heart, and it almost seems that the working person would have become a banker to fill budget holes. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Instead of entrepreneurship, there is a spirit of control here. I think that if one of the world's highest taxes is to think of more taxes, instead of finally making changes on the expenditure side, which are already overdue, it is actually grossly negligent and an attack on Austria's economic location. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] I simply find some proposals incomprehensible. For example, if one is supposed to want to strengthen the economy, why do you agree that you want to burden small and medium-sized cars in the future? And on the other hand, the government has no problem in getting rid of expensive service cars, which the taxpayer pays, which are often twice as expensive, through the area. [[Abg. Pendl: Please go, what is that?- Oh, my God!]] What did the sect manufacturers actually do? – It is true that at present we have nothing to celebrate what the government programme is about to do, but yet it is completely incomprehensible why they should be asked to cash out. Even what the smokers do, the regulation is not clear. I am not a smoker myself and wish that as many people as possible live without smoke, but what about the tax increase in four stages? And why is the money taken not intended? To ÖIAG: I am concerned that the re-politicization will be a very serious disadvantage for this company, according to the pro-pore system. Which shareholder will buy shares in a company where a red and a black manager will sit above? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The privatisations that are being sought here may amount to a maximum of three billion. While it is possible to feed the banks that have been declared stateless for a few months, the real money that comes from privatization lies with the countries. Unfortunately, one has not found the courage for a reasonable federalism reform – a reform that is long overdue not only for financial reasons but also for democratic policy reasons and would be more than desirable. All in all, this government programme is not very original: Debt – taxes, debt – taxes. And everything else is just under reservation! This incurable debt of the rulers harms our country. Even though Mr Lopatka says praiseworthyly that we want to reduce the debt, I am concerned, because debt always means a loss of sovereignty and bring Austria to the attention of our lenders. This weakens the Austrian market and insecures the Austrian savers. The savings book is losing – the party book wins! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Now to the resolution of the Ministry of Science: This is a clear rejection at the educational and scientific location Austria! It is actually a rejection to the entire economic location, because our economic power is largely based on a knowledge society. [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] I do not see any significant improvement in this programme for women either. Although I'm not a quota fighter at all, I still find the signal remarkable: In the ÖVP there are two female government members under eight, no female club boss, no female country leader, no female country party obscene. In SPÖ, there are three female government members of eight, no female club boss, no national leader and no national party leader. That's an interesting sign. What is going on in the justice system is currently rethinking on the abolition of the law of law. And at this point I also plead for the reintroduction of the independent investigators. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and NEOS-LIF.]] Justice must not be influenced by politics in ordinary and even in serious cases. But I also want to be constructive. With everything that is good for our country and for our citizens, the Stronach team will of course have a positive role to play. We are in opposition and not as strong as I would have wished, but still: They will need the support of the other parties – so will ours. I have met some people from the other parties in recent weeks – the Greens, the Liberals, the NEOS. There are people everywhere you can work with. [[Ironic cheerfulness and reputation at the ÖVP:Super!]] But there is a need for a certain basic trust. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Therefore, my request and request to those responsible for the government: Don't play with ginger cards! We expect you to be honest that you act humanly correctly, and I believe that is also the last chance for this country under red and black – I do not say that myself, but that says the Sovereign. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] At this point I agree with the remark that policy itself must not be so important. We are only there to serve the citizens. Politics is not a self-interest. In the end, the Sovereign still decides. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I now wish a lot of courage, a lot of energy – even self-reflection – and a Styrian happiness! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e5636	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e5658	Mr President! Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank here in the House! Dear citizens in front of TV screens! I have now heard this declaration of government, and of course the government programme is in place. We read it through, too. There is quite a bit of a bit of good practice here as well. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: also understood?]] – We also understood. – This is also to be expected if you take two months. [[Abg. Kickl: They won't do anything at all!]] What's missing is the push forward. Of course, this will also have been thought by some people who have now listened to the screens that ask themselves: Well, is that it now? What does that mean for our country? I think it doesn't mean anything bad, but unfortunately nothing good, because in five years we will be a lot poorer with this programme – poorer in prosperity, but also poorer in well-being in this country. That is why I have briefly deleted my criticism and considered an alternative explanation here. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Where is the positive news today?]] - I'll insert them here! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] You can also violate rules if you are aware that you are currently hurting them and thus doing something better. And that's what I'm doing here. Estimated President of the Federal Republic of Germany! [[Call the ÖVP: It's already gone!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: He doesn't hear you!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated colleagues on the government bank! Appreciate High House! Politics is the place where we make up how we live together. It is a special day today when we present our Federal Government here in the House, on which we also present our government programme. We are politicians, we are politicians, and it is up to us to take the lead here for the next five years and take the skills of this country into our hands. Our motto is: “Wonderful in the New Times”. – We have taken it from the Federal Anthem – “Tough to the New Times” – and we also want to take this as a benchmark for our work as a federal government. We are children of confidence, we are children of determination, and we are children of courage. That is why we have made very clear progress in our vision for this country at the beginning of our declaration of government. We want a country of confidence, a country of determination. We want citizens to take control of their personal lives in freedom and responsibility, and we see it as our task to provide the right framework here. We want a strong community. Of course, we also want a strong social network, and we have great responsibility here to build this social network in such a way that it will also be for our grandchildren that we do not build it on debt. As politicians, we have the task of investing wherever the future takes place. That's why I'm starting with the field of education – our big heart affair. I can tell you: We have successfully ended the Thirty Years War “Total School Yes/No?” We finished him because we make a clear commitment to the common school. Yes, education must not be inherited in Austria. We have destroyed many opportunities and talents in recent decades. We'll stop it. For us, common school means that we agree with a medium-term maturity on where we want to accompany young people. What can they do with 15? And – this is a revolution for this country – we then give schools the responsibility and freedom to accompany these students on their way to middle maturity. There is a variety: There is a variety of schools, secondary schools and pedagogical concepts. And I can tell you: We made another groundbreaking decision. The director, the director, is appointed to the school. [[Congratulation with NEOS-LIF.]] The most important book in the Austrian school is no longer the party book. We'll send it to bed and breakfast. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: My God!]] No early board, it's too late, but we're sending it to pension. Further groundbreaking: We have given this director, this director the responsibility and the freedom to accompany students ideally, which means having ideally motivated teachers. This will happen because we strengthen the dedicated forces in the school. The directors, the directors, have human freedom. That is, they are responsible for setting up teachers. We have abolished the right to serve, we have set out a framework collective agreement that will regulate these things. And I can tell you: There is also the possibility that we say goodbye to those teachers who have lost their way into this profession – there is in every profession. These are not many, they are few, and they have pulled down the image of this important profession. A clear commitment from us: Teachers, this is the most important profession in this Republic. These are the goldsmiths of Austria. We trust you with what is most important to us, namely the talents of this country, and that is why tomorrow we start a campaign for teachers: The most important profession for the Republic! [[Abg. Neubauer: What about the government programme?]] All of this is included in our government programme in the field of education. You'll see a lot of others too. You will see that we are introducing an educational account for the adult people. Vocational adult education is very, very important – a common task of the individual, the company and the public. Science and research: There runways for the future are built. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: “Landbahnen”?- Oh, my God!]] And that's why we have clearly put more money in her mind: this budget path – 2 percent – that has been around for a long time. The great innovation, you will see in the government programme: For the first time, we have also helped you with the budget path and budget for the next year. We didn't keep this secret. You can understand how we come to this 2%. So far, this has remained hidden. A very clear confession: Science and research get more resources. We have also established a predictable framework for universities in Austria. That is, we also fixed a detailed roadmap with milestones for a study site financing in Austria. We also fixed a model of post-graduate fees. That means there are tuition fees, yes, but there is also the full freedom that all those who want to study can do so. The state presupposes. And if our graduates reach a certain salary level after they finish their studies, they will refund this part of the tuition fees. Now I ask colleagues, Mr Häupl and Mr Pröll, to look after the screen: It comes as a thank you, a tribute to the heads of state. I can tell you: All this was possible only because this Republic can only function as a federal republic in a good cooperation between the federal government and countries. I am pleased that the heads of state have shown courage. We wouldn't have gotten that far without her. They have shown courage by taking over tax authority. Yes, the federal states do a lot of good, but it is also important that they assume responsibility not only for expenditure but also for revenue. This is groundbreaking for Austria, which is an entry in the history book. [[Call the FPÖ: That's bullshit!]] – A thank you to all the country leaders who have cooperated. I can also say a thank you to the national leaders on the following point: We have made a health reform that deserves this name too. We have strengthened the established area. We are creating the financing from a cast, something that everyone has wanted for years that we have never done; now we can do it. All these reforms create the freedom to invest in the health sector. We have removed the jungle of funding landscapes. Mr Jank will be pleased about this, which also has an ear for the economy. Why? – This also creates transparency in the field of investment. However, we also create the possibility of reducing the tax and tax rate in Austria. For the first time in over ten years, we have been making the turnaround for seven years – for over ten years now it has been wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Which government program are you talking to?]] We have set the goal – and we also hope that you will all be working here – that we will reduce our tax and tax rate to 40 percent by 2020. Germany is already there, there we want to go too; the Swiss are much lower. That means, ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens, you get 5 percent more money in your wallets. We will do this with these measures. [[Congratulation with NEOS-LIF.]] We have also sent an important signal, ladies and gentlemen, we are European champions in the promotion of parties. We will also be after the reduction that we undertake; unfortunately still. More has not gone, but we are looking forward to an all-party consensus here. We will cut party funding by 20 percent over the next five years, and then we will still be European champions. [[Abg. Strache: Oligarchenmodel!]] No party landscape is so well equipped with public resources. - Thank you for that. We will unravel the trade order. We will abolish compulsory membership in the Chambers of Commerce, Chambers of Workers, in all chambers – a big step, a clear commitment to the social partners, but of course also a clear commitment: The social partners came in 21. ==References== We have not lit tombs, but light on the runways of the future. [[Abg. Street: “Landerbahnen der Zukunft”! He's really talking about UFO runways!]] [[Abg. Brosz: There even the Faymann laughs!]] - All this is fiction, unfortunately. It didn't happen. [[Call: These are wrong-lighters]] There are small lights that have been kindled here. The future will not be able to land. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: More like a balloon!]] I'm sorry. A big chance has been played. I hope you will go far beyond the government programme. Finally, I would like to make a motion for a resolution on an area where it is particularly painful that runways of the future are destroyed here, namely in the field of science and research. Of course, we would like to receive this ministry as an independent ministry. Therefore, we make NEOS the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] A clear commitment to science and research – there will be a future! And the second motion for a resolution: We want us to be more concerned with the division of ministries and also with the appointment of ministers and ministers. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We ask for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e5941	The two motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e6039	Now, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Spindelegger comes up with a speech time of 20 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e6060	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! After a short trip to the NEOS Republic, I would like to return to the ground of reality. [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Strolz – I would like to explain – your visions are beautiful and good, but reality therefore looks different because – and we have seen this here – in five weeks we have to agree with a partner who also has a different social picture, a different state image than we do. But the challenges need to be met. We will certainly have found ourselves in another way in five years if we discuss this government programme today and then implement it quickly. That's important to me. It is about budgeting carefully so that we have a stable future, and that is the motto of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me address some of the important questions that are now to be formulated as challenges for us! The stable finances: We have agreed to be SPÖ and ÖVP, because stable finances are the prerequisite for something to come up with to ensure security. Everything else is adventure. This is why secure finances are at the heart of a new 2014 budget. In the next few weeks, we will provide the basis for presenting this budget to the House at the beginning of the next year. Then I hope for a decision-making process with a majority that goes beyond those that the government parties have, because we need the first impulse for the next year and we also need the assurance that next year our state finances continue to go there to reduce the deficit. But that's good. We have dealt with this in many hours, we have put a solution on the table that can really be seen. The next task will be to create a budget framework by 2018. There are also many preparatory work to be finalized so that we can present this budget framework to the House next spring. But, ladies and gentlemen, the extraordinary issue of finance is something else. We want to ensure a structural zero deficit for the first time in a legislative period, starting in 2016, and this is a major goal of the Federal Government, to which we stand and which we want to achieve. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: But how, Minister?]] It is also different than it was in the past, because it is absolutely necessary that we have a structural zero deficit not only once through one-time effects, but permanently. Only in this way will we create room for the future, and only in this way will we give security to all those who want something from that state. A second major question in this context is: The context is as follows: How can we deal with reforms in such a way that we can bring something to the ground that we all want, for example in pensions, by really bringing up the retirement age, even in times when more unemployment threatens, where we have economic conditions that do not stimulate us? [[Abg. Street: On the runway!]] We have developed a model for this in intensive discussions, which says that this age of entry will rise more strongly for the first time – and that is again the extraordinary – than the age of life, ladies and gentlemen. That's the important thing: For pensions to be safe in the future, we need a higher age of arrival than the age of life increases. We do this with these measures – and that is good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have also considered how we can accompany this, because none of us can appreciate exactly the labour market of tomorrow, but we have developed a monitoring together. In this monitoring, a detailed assessment is made every six months of whether the objectives have been achieved in a piece – and if they have not been achieved, a next action must be taken. But the objective that we are there by 2018 with an average age of entry of over 60 years is also supported by measures to ensure that older workers also have a job, Mr. Collegue! [[Abg. Neubauer: Which one?]] This is the important thing: that older workers, too, can really stay at work. And there's a bonus malus system that we've set up. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This bonus-malus system states that companies that employ older employees also have something of it – support from the AMS for pay-by-off costs, a possibility of promoting business goals, where younger employees are employed and the elderly are kept. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] There is a wide range of measures that we have planned and will help to achieve this objective. We will not only achieve a structural zero deficit, but also a higher retirement age than 60 years. This will be the only signal – it's the most important signal – to secure pensions in the future. Let me address a reform which has also been much debated and for which we have now also found a formula. The administrative reform is – we know – the drilling of hard boards. Together with the national leaders, we agreed that we would create an overview. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Overview?]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: There has already been a convention!]] The next year, the countries will feed everything in terms of funding into the transparency database, 2015 by the municipalities. We have an overview of who is promoting this for the first time. Since there are more than 40,000 subsidies in Austria, this will help us to question every double track and thus use the money to make sense where it is necessary – and not to distribute it with the casting can. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For the first time, we have also established a benchmark system in the administration, a benchmark system, which gives the administrative expenditure – as in the case of health reform – a cover. This lid must not be exceeded. We will save € 350 million in administrative expenditure by 2018 – which we have planned – which is a good policy so that administrative reform is taken seriously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] This will require that every minister that every federal state, that each municipality conducts administrative reform in such a way that structures are changed. I think we can achieve this with such a benchmark system, and that is why this is a good decision. Let me come to the third point, which is important! In addition to stable finances, in addition to the reforms, it is also very crucial to promote growth. We have taken a number of measures to this end. On the one hand, these are offensive measures, which are funded by us from flood protection towards the construction industry, €460 million in this legislative period, which goes towards families, will increase family support – this will cost us more from July 2014 onwards, but we are committed to supporting families in this country, we want to do so, for which we have known ourselves. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have planned the expansion of day care with 400 million, the expansion of childcare facilities with 350 million and a funding of 300 million euros. We want to provide more for the care money and for the 24-hour care 310 million €. We want the care fund not to end in 2016, but to continue so that everyone in need or need of care can have a good feeling and know that we do not abandon it. That too is an objective of this federal government. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, we have also planned offensive measures for the economy. We agreed that next year we will provide €100 million specifically for programmes so that the economy works better, says that there is a wave of founders that we support our export companies in terms of international opportunities. We want to increase the number of export companies. We want to settle new headquarters in Austria. We want, above all, to achieve red tape for companies at last, because it is necessary that someone who is a businessman sees the state supporting him and not overcrowding with bureaucracy. All these are measures provided for in this programme. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] These growth impulses will help us to go beyond what we have achieved so far in forecasts. We want to increase the number of people employed. I think that these measures for stable finances, with reforms and with growth impulses de facto predominate the manuscript of this federal government. But now let me also address what the opposition has said today! First of all, I would like to say: Mr. Strache, agreeing to new faces in the Federal Government as soon as they want to do something for Austria is actually bad style. [[Abg. Kickl: Don't want to, can! That's the question!]] That's bad style! And every Austrian, every Austrian can take a picture of how an opposition party deals with ministers and state secretaries who are sitting on the government bank for the first time today. [[Abg. Kickl: The question should be asked how do you deal with!]] In my eyes, that's not a good style! Dr. Sophie Karmasin, the new Minister of Family and Youth, has given up a company and is the one who also shows that one can better live reconciliation between family and profession. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: One minute to think!]] I warmly welcome her to our government team, and she will do well. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetteris a renowned economic criminal lawyer, a university professor, a criminal defender, yet he takes over the judicial department, with a lot of far-sightedness, with a lot of competence – and he is a Party-free Justice Minister. I warmly welcome him to the government. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechtsrist someone who has gained much experience, namely in the European Union on the subject of agriculture. He was Director of Rural Development. He was now on his way to the Secretary-General of the Committee of the Regions. He has nevertheless come to Austria and takes over the agricultural resort. I am convinced that he will handle this task very well. Welcome! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would also like to welcome my two State Secretarys: Mrs Mag. Sonja Steßlist State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. I would like to congratulate her warmly and warmly welcome her to the team of the Ministry of Finance. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I also want Mag. Jochen Danninger, who has proved himself particularly successful in the negotiations, welcomes him as State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. In particular, it will also deal with the question of administrative reform and is a valuable addition to our team. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I can also deal with what you said, Mrs Glavischnig: Yes, of course, as far as science is concerned, there is a innovation; a innovation in terms of what we always say is that research is a crucial issue for us in the future. [[Members of the Greens show tables with the title "Rerule? Science, where the word “science” is crossed]] [[Abg. Brosz: Science abolished!]] Yes, that is a crucial question for the future. Today, research is at home in two departments: in the Ministry of Science as basic research and in the Ministry of Economic Affairs as applied research. And I would like to see this combined in future so that we can also have opportunities in the market, ladies and gentlemen, in both directions. [[Abg. Brosz: Done!]] Science remains a centre of our policy, but research will get a new center, with a new minister, Reinhold Mitterlehner. And that's our announcement. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, I would also like to deal with what Mrs Nachbaur said. In one, you are right, Mrs Colleague: The government programme may not be as original as others, but with its originality we do not want to compete with you, but for us it is important that we set up a government programme that truly meets the requirements of the future. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's mean!]] We have discussed the future of Austria on 120 pages in this government programme, namely: stable finances, reforms, offensive measures and economic impulses. This is what the Austrians expect of us, from a government that is working on having a good future that creates the secure framework conditions that also ensure that there is more growth and employment in Austria. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Where have you been in recent years?- Oh, my God!]] For this we have acted, and for that we are working with full elan from today. I ask all of you – whether from the government groups or from the opposition – to accompany and support us on this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e6414	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stefan. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the agreement, the speaking time in this House is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e6435	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I have a great understanding of the fact that something unagitated is being presented, as Mr Vice-Chancellor has just done, but if it is not ambitious, it is bad. And that's the problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, this government programme has some positive results, which is not a question. It would really be very unscrupulous to claim that it was all bad. It must be light where there is shadow, that's not a question. If we look at the essential points, such as the question of state reform, how to better organize the state, how to reduce costs, how to actually work better and so on, then we will meet here at: Administrative simplification, competence development and so on. What action does this government have to take in this context? – The Federalism Reform Commission. That is the measure on this point. On the issue of debureaucratisation and discharge, the action is: Commission for Reform and Deregulation. When it comes to developing direct democracy – an issue that was very important in this House during the last legislative period, where we are concerned to take an honest part in the decision-making process in this country, as a complement to what is happening here in Parliament, where there has been great announcements – there is a survey committee as a government measure. We'll see where this is going. I don't call that ambitious, but these are really pure excuses. And that's where our criticism begins. We would have to do so much, it has already been mentioned, for example, the unbundling of the country's financial sovereignty, so that we can deal with it and say: It can't be that the countries are distributing the money and the federal government is taking it!, because this, of course, inevitably leads to failure and the destruction of money. But there is no word about it except that a few commissions will be used. I am also a lawyer, so I can say a few words on this issue. Justice is very far-reaching in Austria, and there is no doubt about that at all. And important for justice, for access to justice, is on the one hand a certain service character, on the other hand the question of costs. And it must be noted that in Austria, completely separated from all other countries in Europe, the judicial system is financed by 110 percent with its fees. That is, with your fees that you pay as a citizen, you finance the budget with. And that would be totally unimaginable in all the other countries of Europe. The European average is 22 percent of the costs of justice, which are replaced by fees, but in Austria it is 110 percent. For example, if you want to make a copy in court, you now have to pay 63 cents per page if you copy it yourself. It is still to be said that in September, immediately before the election, all fees were raised once again by 5 percent, although it was already known that we are overfinancing there. Quick, fast, three days before the election, so it doesn't notice. Or, an example of this fee madness: If you are a father or mother applying for a visit, you will pay €231 for the application and €115 for the decision that exists then. [[Abg. New builder: Unmistakable!]] [[Abg. New builder: Incredible!]] If you have two children, double. What citizen can afford to make such a request? If so, he'll have to get rid of this somewhere. This is what we see, and this is the conclusion that citizens then – and in this case fathers and mothers; this is a particularly sensitive area – may not be able to make the request because they cannot afford it. These are the inconsistencies in our system that need to be abolished, but I do not think I am talking about in this government programme. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] Of course, it goes in the other direction, namely, where the economic location may be damaged by the exorbitant high court costs, flat rate fees when it comes to high dispute values. In a large process, as was the case now in Linz, with a dispute value of € 100 million, in the UK or Italy you have a fee of € 2 000 to € 3 000, in Germany € 300 000 and in Austria more than € 1,000,000, just once as a flat rate fee at the beginning. This is also very problematic for the economic location. So we have a complete flaw there, something that has long been abolished. A third point, which is also involved, is data protection. We have also been talking about this over and over again, and there are some explanations about it. But, in reality, we are dealing with this problem very insensitively. I want to break this down briefly: What does data protection mean? What does this mean for the individual citizen if he does not know who has his data? And data is everything, so our health data, our financial data, and, and, and. If we do not know that, we do not know on what basis certain decisions are made: Why don't I get this credit? Why don't I get this insurance? Why don't I get this job? – This data is secretly collected under the ceiling, and it is therefore necessary that the state joins forces. But this government is doing the opposite. Let's take a look at Elga, the electronic health record. Who is used to make the authorisation allocation there, so who should get which data? – A company that is a subsidiary of the NSA. And these are the points where we move exactly in the opposite direction. I hope that this government may take up – at least as an opposition – suggestions and move something to improve. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the sense of Austria, of course, I wish this government much success, which is not a question, but I fear exactly the opposite. In case of doubt, the voters will have the opportunity to improve something at the next election.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e6505	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e6526	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stefan, it is, of course, the duty of every government to listen to constructive proposals from members of the opposition, to take up and take up these proposals and to implement them together. [[Abg. Kickl: Let's see how many are recorded!]] Similarly, there are constructive and reasonable proposals by the government parties, and I hope that it will be possible again during this legislative period – in the last legislative period it was hardly possible – to take unanimous decisions here and to take action together as a Parliament; not that we will re-establish measures which all welcome on Sunday, but some will not take part in Parliament. For example, I recall the ban on speculation, where the FPÖ unfortunately withdrew shortly before the vote, so that we could not take a general ban on speculation in the constitutional rank. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Go, please! But you don't have to come to the National Council for reviling the Members!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That was not a ban on speculation! That was a free letter for St. Pölten! Shame!]] The government programme, which is available, includes some important steps. Mr Strolz asked earlier: What does that bring to the country? To what extent does this change the country? In the field of education, the first is the expansion of kindergartens – kindergartens are the first educational institution and a very important educational institution – and the second is the development of day-to-day schools. There is to be at every school location for each year, if there are enough children or parents who want to have it, the possibility of full day care, for a full day school. This would be a milestone, because we know exactly that there is a need in many parts of Austria, but there is not yet the offer. And the money for expanding all day school forms is not subject to the reservation of funding, just as the extension of childcare places is not – I expressly emphasize: not! – subject to the reservation of funding. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why not?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where's that?]] It is also the second kindergarten year. Where it is found that there are still development and language deficits, there is an expressly the duty – for this it is free – to visit the kindergarten not only for a year but for two years. This is an important point that we simply improve the education system as a whole. Another very important area – the Federal Chancellor has said this very clearly anyway – is: We do not live on an island of the Blessed, but in the middle of the European Union, in the middle of Europe, and we know that in many parts of Europe there is an unimaginable high unemployment, an unimaginable high youth unemployment, and that it is very important to counter reasonable, namely not only to save blindly and increase VAT and reduce benefits, pensions, salaries, as is done in many European Union countries. We in Austria have done a lot right there: We already save, of course, see that after the crisis with the deficit we are going down again – where we are very successful; more successful than most other countries – but at the same time we see that there is more employment, that there is more growth than in other countries. And Austria is one of the few countries in the European Union where there is more unemployment today than before the crisis. There is less unemployment in almost all countries, but much more unemployment than before the crisis. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: There is less unemployment? What did you say?]] In Austria it is reversed. And the measures that are being put in place have been mentioned in part already in the housing programme, housing offensive, the flood programme, the 100 million in addition for the next two years, for 2015 and 2016, for measures to support the economy and measures to support growth and employment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Say that in absolute numbers! What is the level of unemployment?]] Please, yes, you're right: Of course, even in employment there are in absolute numbers today more jobs, including more full-day jobs, than before the crisis. This is a success, which is also a success of the Federal Government, and we support it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When it's assembled here: Where's the health reform? It's true when he or his party, the FPÖ, was selected from the government, there was a huge problem – you personally not, but your party, which has, of course, been chosen from the government – as all health insurance companies were heavily deficient. [[Abg. Strache: I was not in the government, Mr. Krainer!]] There was massive over-indebtedness – a very big problem. [[Abg. Podgorschek: at BZÖ, right?]] - Please, the Members are still sitting there! Mr Bösch, you were here when the FPÖ was in the government; also the colleague Rosenkranz, who has just gone out. [[Abg. Podgorschek: But these are the only two that are left, because they did not agree with him!]] There are still Members here who have experienced this government. Maybe you'll ask what it was like. I can tell you how it was: The health insurance companies stood with their backs to the wall. There were high deficits, high indebtedness. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Krainer, don't always save about the past, look into the future! Look ahead!]] What's the situation like this? – All health insurance companies write black numbers! And at the end of the year there will be no more debt in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is stupid! That's not true!]] This is how a successful health policy looks – not with ambulance charges, not with service limitations, but simply with structural reforms and with the quiet hand of the Minister Stöger, who has done quite excellent work there. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I am glad that he is still there to develop the health sector positively. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: He has nothing to talk about! It's just the heads of state!]] Also in the care sector – not even expressly subject to a reservation of funding, Mr Rossmann, colleague Kogler – there is € 1 billion more in this legislative period, for the care fund and for care measures. This is not explicitly subject to a reservation of funding! Four pages later you will find a tabular list, where it is exactly presented, which areas, which future investments – I am telling you just now: [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where?]] Four pages further are expressly stated, which are not subject to a reservation of funding. You can now claim the opposite against better knowledge, or you can say by me that these areas are not subject to a reservation of funding – and you can believe me that I know what I am talking about. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Then you don't know what you're writing!]] To conclude, Mr Strolz, you asked the question: What's better for the country? – Simple: If, after five years, there is less unemployment and more employment in this country, it was good for the country. If there is the possibility for all day school forms at every school location, it is an advantage for the country. And if in Austria those who go to work for their incomes pay less taxes, and those who have capital and wealth incomes pay more taxes than today, then it is also better for the country because then there is much more tax justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e6803	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e6840	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Even if you try to find particularly outstanding positive things in your Convention and today's declaration here – it's already a challenge. You're really hard on yourself. Granted, it is quite a bit of a part of it. At 6 minutes speaking time, I'm going to see that I'm not going to get so much on it right now. We would even confess to express our opinion on such sensitive fiscal measures, and that is one thing. However, we always add that in other places, exactly where it hurts most, namely in the lower areas of wage and income tax, we should pay off. But, as I said, my topic is rather that you are very heavy, because you find something positive. And the slogan “successful. Austria.’, which you put ahead of the whole, will now be too questionable; in the light of the background, which, interestingly, Klubobmann Schieder has brought in here, which is a little bit regrets the fact that the government is always addressed with the “fad” attribute. For this I have a certain understanding – even for us this has already happened, although we are such a quick opposition – only I honestly tell you that I really don't care if the government would bring something forward. So the matter is no longer fad or funny or sexy, as he said, but the question is: Is something going on or not? Or is it a further sausage that actually leads to a standstill? From my point of view or from our point of view, it has long been about a forward strategy – which, however, is missing – for the Republic, there or even there, a reconstruction of the Republic, also about a conversion of the economic system. There comes, honestly, nothing. There you could, if you did something there and said something, dress up quietly. Alone, it would be right and important. Instead – and now there is a quote of not so famous ÖVP clumps in the federal states – the whole thing is a further sausage stand agreement. And that makes it very good: It is essentially a follow-up to the stand-up agreement. And this is the real tragedy of the thing, because the necessary things are largely out of place and something is being tried in many small areas – something is being tried, I don't even agree with you – but it remains there essentially at announcements. This is the next problem: first, the next stand-up agreement – and where something is in it, it is essentially an announcement. And, gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, which you have so far spoken here, I can tell you: You may think we don't hear correctly, we can't read, but then you have to write correctly first. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The very first word under the chapter “Finances” is the interim title “Reservation of Financing”! The very first sentence is: “All” – all! – ‘measures provided for in the Government Programme’ – defaults in my part – ‘are subject to a reservation of funding’. So, tell us! Don't measure the opposition in any way! Substances ‘fad’: This would probably have been less for us with Mrs Fekter, because she would have had the mumm to put it down and say it that way. So, fad was actually rare. Let us see whether Mr Brandstetter – some of which he is bringing with him – can take this role in pushing back the fading factor. You are already speaking next, Mrs Fekter, and you can say something about the budget path and the structural deficit and the federal-state ratio, where I also trust you more than the entire federal government here. In fact, you once left out the question of fiscal justice. But that's nothing new. But they have also left out the federal-state ratio where it really starts to hurt: They extend the financial compensation, which has already been pressed off to Molterer, which provides for loud multi-tracks, until 2016. I think this is negligent! But it just fits into the picture you've drawn here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Obviously, there is nothing to go on, just as you look away at the hypo. The main problem with the budget hole is the banking hole. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, you said that you were dealing with the problem yesterday. – That would have been a government issue for a long time! They are, in fact, equally involved in this ministerial basis which has been requested against Mrs Fekter the other day because the government has been here since years negligently the damage – whoever caused it – to taxpayers who maximizes taxpayers. That's why you can't come and like the boy in school says: I'm starting today, and now I'm looking at the hypo! – The billions have already gotten away! And every day costs! I think that's not responsible what you're going to do in this place. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] With regard to tax justice, it is like education: Why is nothing going on in this country? – Because the SPÖ always relies on campaigns in between. This works so much that she still has the most votes. Nevertheless, the others are always going through. This is precisely the case because you spend most of your energy on walling and blocking, and you are the biggest energy for downfalls and falls. [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards SPÖ]] That is why it comes out: no education reform and no tax justice reform. And that's a shame. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's exactly what it would be about: the big changes in this republic – and they stay out of it. Let's get rid of the covenant at all, with your cowardice! Let's get rid of the covenant! [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] In Eisenstadt, let's make the headquarters for infrastructure, in Klagenfurt the headquarters for anti-corruption, and in St. Pölten, for the most part! - That's what's threatening here.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e6942	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e6957	Take your heart: Be quiet fad, but sausage You're not going on anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e6985	Mrs Fekter is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e7006	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear spectators in front of the TV screens and here on the gallery! High house! On the homepage of the Ministry of Finance you will find the balance sheet of the federal government. This is of particular importance for two reasons: On the one hand, the Federation balances. As you know, we have a very modern accounting system for the financial situation on the federal side. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: And the countries!]] We don't have such a thing yet with the other local authorities. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, however! They don't want to!]] But if you study through this government programme, for example, you will see that this is a major project that we consider to be the harmonisation of the accounting rules for all public budgets: a description of the financial situation on liquidity flows, the resources – the effective use of resources – and the assets of the local authorities, not only of the federal government but also of the countries and municipalities. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: So “studenting” is a bit an exaggerated word!]] If you read exactly, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, there is also the fact that this will be included in the Constitution. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, if it were worth it, we are the faster!]] Just like that, Mr Kogler. That's where you're called. Not only talk big, but then decide! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Uh! You're welcome!]] We could have that long ago if it had not failed in the constitutional majority. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But you have to deliver once!]] It's similar to the speculation ban. There is already an Article 15a agreement with the countries, but there has been a failure here in the High House on the constitutional majority. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Because it's substanceless! We don't want to!]] [[Abg. Strache: What about minority rights at the Investigation Committee?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, also there you can show whether you are willing to actively do something for this country, to participate in and decide on it, or whether you can only practice criticism. [[Abg. How about minority rights for committee of inquiry, Mrs Fekter?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Send something reasonable!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The task reform also includes: It has been criticised here that there is too little in relation to administrative reform or federalism reform. [[Abg. New builder: Not just too little! No substance!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I have already seen a lot of government agreements, but none of them were so clear in the measures before. [[Call the FPÖ:But such a bad never before!]] [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe it's better that you gave the ministry!]] There has not yet been a detailed indication of the objectives, challenges and measures. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Walter Rosenkranz and Mag. Rossmann.]] I think it's worth looking at more closely. For example, in the reform of the tasks between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities, a time frame is clearly defined, and that is why Mr Strache's criticism is not at all true, who has delegated that there would be no time-limits to call it measures. [[Abg. Kickl: Oh, yeah!]] [[Abg. New builder: I don't have it anyway!]] No, quite the contrary, everything is time-consuming in terms of task reform, and concrete measures are also mentioned. [[Abg. Kickl: The loads immediately and the other later! That's how to summarize it!]] A very exciting issue in this context will be the working group that has to deal with the benchmarks and the best-practice models. This working group – this is about administrative reform – must, as early as next year, analyse the management. [[Abg. Neubauer: “Without von delay”!]] [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] And wherever we have statistics from Austria Benchmarks – and there are huge numbers of them – we orient ourselves to the best. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Even if it is always meant that you just have to put everything together and centralize it, it would be cheaper: Irresistence! – Benchmark, for example, has the Burgenland. The Burgenland has the best administration for its citizens! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: What does the Upper Austria care about? That's totally wretched, like the Burgenland!]] And that's what you have to look at and then put it into practice. Design and modernise, ladies and gentlemen, by means of measures and time-limits! It may already be that you have not understood a lot, such as that we need a deep store, a deep store for the National Library, for the State Archive, for the surrounding universities under Heroes Square. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is a modernisation project, and it is thanks to the mayor of the castle Dr. Sahl that all who are involved in it are in one line: the magistrate of Vienna for the building approval, the Ministry of Culture for responsibility at the Kunsthistorisches Museum and the National Library, the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the Head of the Castle, the Ministry of Science, because the universities can then store there. On this small individual example alone, you can see that the modernisation of the state is at our heart.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e7311	The next item is Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e7332	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Over the last few hours, we have been able to explain in great detail which bundles of measures this new Austrian government wants to meet for the people. One word, Mr. Spindelegger, was that makes us proud. You have always meant that we want to move this and that, we want to do it, we want to do it. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a big difference in life, whether you want something or if you do something. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If you had said that we would, then it would have been credible for us, but nobody has anything from the will alone. Thus, from our point of view, this government programme is no more than a letter to the Christkind – without clear targets, without clear deadlines, until when what is implemented, and especially without liabilities. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, I looked at the speech you gave in 2008. [[Abg. Kickl: The difference can only be seen by the suit!]] At that time, you meant: The proposals made by the President of the Court of Auditors and the Chairman of the Govern ment Committee on Reform – structural reform, administrative reform, health reform – we will take them very seriously. – What has become of it? Nothing! [[Abg. Kickl: even the period extended!]] Except for air, except will, will, will and will, there was nothing behind it, because it did not follow concrete measures. You also said: We want a relief from work. – Appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, it is already written in the Bible: “By their deeds you shall recognize them.” – You have nothing at all! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Austria today has one of the highest tax and tax rates, and you cannot rightly be proud of that! If you stand up today and say, perhaps the economic situation was so difficult, you couldn't estimate it: Irresistence! You also quoted economic researchers in 2008 who even spoke of zero or negative growth. This is not considered to be an excuse either. But what is true is the balance sheet you have to submit. And my predecessor, former Minister of Finance Fekter, has presented a balance sheet, in which liabilities of € 225 billion are compared with assets of € 89 billion. I honestly say to you that every company would have been pleading for a long time and would get nothing more. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Go, Mrs Colleague, do not compromise on this comparison! That's what the grandkids will do to you!]] That is why this country, under the black and red government, has been badly managed. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] From our point of view, this government programme is nothing more than a programme of control without any liability and without any certainty of solution. But in one area you have given us very clear signals by showing what science and research is worth in this country. The field of science and research has been downgraded to an annex of the Ministry of Economic Affairs – and this, although you are telling ÖVP about how important it is to secure the location in the future. [[Abg. Kickl: Freed into the basement!]] They have also shown us how independent independent opinion researchers are in an independent ORF. Thank you very much for that too. This is a very, very deep insight, unfortunately God's, such a thing should not exist in a democracy. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day I would like to make the following request, because we don't want to do anything, we don't believe in will – we want to see actions. [[Quoted print version removed]] In this sense, a happiness for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e7478	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e7549	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e7570	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! I actually wanted to bring you a bottle of wine today to symbolize you that the only thing that's kind of spicy about your government program is the thing with the sect. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: But now he gets more expensive, d’rum we leave him at home!]] But I thought you haven't deserved such a gift yet. With such cosmetic measures as the tax increase on sect and on tobacco, you are trying to tackle the serious issue of debt issues of valuable government members. I figured this out yesterday. In order to control our public debt through this tax increase, we would have to drink at least 317 billion bottles of wine, so every Austrian would have to drink almost 40 000 bottles. These are nearly 8,000 bottles a year over the next five years – so that this tax increase on sparkling wine represents a serious consolidation measure. So if that was your plan, I can only tell you that this will not happen, not even with the very drinking Austrians. But perhaps you have also included increased cigarette consumption and the mistake lies exclusively with me, can be. I tried yesterday to review the government programme for its generation-righteousness: 124 pages – twice the word “generational justice”! On the one hand, in the Preamble, you write about “measures to safeguard our successful social state, which, however, always have a view on generation justice. ” In the youth paper, you will also refer to the “improvement of equal opportunities and gender equality”. Twice the word “Generation Justice ” on 124 pages! – If that doesn’t show us how important the next generations and the young people in this country are to you! [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: It's not about the word!]] Then comes the chapter “Make Austria fit for the future. ” – In it, too, the word “generational justice” – as often as it may not occur – can occur within 20 pages. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] How can that be that one wants to make Austria fit for the future and does not let generation-righteousness appear as a word in it? In the government programme, they are talking about the fact that youth policy is a cross-cutting matter. It includes: “An anchoring of a youth-friendly climate in politics, ( ) improving equal opportunities and gender equality the best possible participation of young people ( ).” ‘Improved integration of children and young people into social/public/political decision-making processes.’ Now I'm wondering, Where was that to be seen at the government negotiations? Where was the integration of the younger generation? [[Abg. Kickl: That's why the short foreign minister has become!]] With all appreciation Sebastian In short, I believe that the young generation was too little involved. Where has their opinion and their voice been heard? What is your most important message regarding science and research? – You do away with the ministry responsible for this! I consider this measure to be the clearest sign of how important you really are to the future generations, namely, not at all. To simply subordinate such an important ministry of training young people to the Ministry of Economic Affairs is, in my opinion, a blow to the face of all those who study, teach and work at universities. But it's still going on. There are no concrete proposals for funding in relation to basic research. They confirm once again that we want to spend 2% of GDP on tertiary education institutions. The problem is, even if you still say it a hundred times: If you do not make clear funding proposals, if you do not also bring concrete ideas, how do you want to get there? What's in it for research? “Over the next five years, federal funds will be made available under budgetary conditions to increase the research rate.” That is, in the clear text, that nothing will happen again, because we all know here that we have too little money to invest seriously. The worst thing is, you've had this for years. What is contained in this government programme is in the Federal Government's strategy paper for research, technology and innovation. In other words, you can still fix the increase in the F&E quota a hundred times without taking concrete action. However, you have made a clear commitment, namely to increase the research rate. But of the 3.76 percent of the research quota we want to achieve by 2020, nothing is in it. You have deviated from that and have also set a clear sign of it. I believe that the most useful measure in relation to gender equality is the introduction of the field of political education. I hope that this will be implemented in the next five years until the next election. For generation reasons, this is because then young people learn at school that what you are doing here has nothing to do with government, but at least what about visionless administration, and that your policy is the reason that young people will not have fair opportunities in your life because you are now celebrating a party and we boys will have to clean up in five years. Moreover, monitoring and the actual retirement age is only of symbolic value. Monitoring itself is far from reform. The actual retirement age will be pretty no matter if you just look at it and beg for it to rise to 60 years. We already have a legal retirement age for men aged 65 and you want to raise that to 60. As a result, the €8.7 billion we are missing will not just appear because we monitor it quickly. All in all, this administrative programme – I believe that it is not possible to speak because of the visionlessness that prevails in it – means five years further downtime at the expense of the next generation, at the expense of the young generation. That's why I can only repeat once again: You are celebrating a party here – and we boys are allowed to clean up in five years!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e7656	Mr Hundstorfer was next mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e7680	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's a good thing I'm speaking to you now, Mr. Mag. Sherak, because I think you really haven't read the program. Enter some other search terms for “Google”, not just “Generation Justice”, enter “Youth”, then you will find something else! What you will find, for example, is that we have a so-called training obligation until the 18. implement years of life. I believe that this is not an essential contribution for young people. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: The government program is probably together!]] This is also a right to training – a right to training! - connected. What are we doing to further shape active labour market policies? What are we doing to ensure that we do not lose this top priority that we have held in Europe for 30 months, even in the coming months, despite the difficult numbers of unemployed people we have? We will continue to have this top position, whether it likes the opposition or not, because we still have something: the highest level of employment since the second Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: But with the highest unemployment rates!]] Yeah, we both have. The fascinating thing is that we live in a country where we both have, the fascinating thing is that, because of active labour market policies, because of the high level of employment, we have the means and the power to counter that we can counter. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: But rise for years!]] Some of the program points, as we do, you have already heard. As a result, we are still in the balance, as difficult as these unemployment figures are. We're in the balance because we're still doing something. For young people, the right to training is important, and we say they have a right to training. We are not putting the obligation in the foreground, but the right to training. - Point one. The second point is to introduce for the elderly what we are doing for the young, namely to ensure that we have as many jobs as possible, to enable the elderly to be employed. Unfortunately, Mr Neubauer is not in the hall now, I could have told him what we are planning to do so, including by strengthening the support of older people, for example through integration aid. That's one of the programs. What is being created with this government programme is a bonus malus system, which for the first time allows us to measure whether enough older workers are employed in a farm. We do this by industry, because it is, of course, only industry-related. We start from next year with the bonus system and the numbers you need when the malus becomes effective for the first time. It is simply about the actual retirement age, because if we write any number to the legal person, that doesn't solve any problem at all. We need to solve the problem with the actual retirement age. All those who believe that there has never been anything happening, I invite you to read this wonderful article in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”. In it you can read what happened. I can tell you that we are now at the last stage of the implementation of the measures taken in Loipersdorf. This implementation is now with 1. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the final stage and in the increase in the contribution of the industrial economy, the increase in the contribution of farmers, and we are also in the process of implementing what we have decided in the Social Rights Amendment Act here in this House. These implementations will be completed by 2017. That is, we have permanently changed a lot of things, and we will be the next big swing at 1. implement January. It is not only about the pension account, but also about the redesign of the long-term insured scheme, and simply also about the further measures related to the protection of activities related to the corridor board. These will be 1st. January 2014 effective, and as I have already said, there are other stages in the corridor board. Moreover, what we have done with this government programme is, I believe, a clear commitment to care, a clear commitment to the fact that the elderly people who need care are relevant to us accordingly. If at least they want to know, it's like this: We are world champions in the field of care. 5.2 percent of the Austrian population receive care money because we have an extended and broad system. I would also like to thank you at this point for the possibility that, in the course of the agricultural negotiations, it was possible to make a certain part – a part; it is a compromise, that is so – of spending time in order to strengthen the development of social services in rural areas in particular. I think that this part of Austria, too, needs these measures, which are, of course, partly different from those in urban areas, but rural areas, I believe, can be upgraded accordingly. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Finally, I would like to say that you must be sure that we do not forget the youth, nor do we forget the older ones, for one thing is very important to me: For both generations in this country, there must be a corresponding high level of social security! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e7755	Next item is the report by Mr Kickl. Speaking time for this round of speakers: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e7776	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! First of all, I would like to refer to Mrs Fekter's statement, which said that we had accused the negotiators of not setting a timetable in this government concept, in this government craft. – No, no, it’s not that, there’s already a schedule that you can easily summarize. It's like: Cash will be collected from now on, and then perhaps sometime it will be relieved. The word “possibility ” has occurred very, very often. Mr Schieder has very much stressed it. It's possible that we can achieve a zero deficit. It is “permissible” that discharges be made. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: No! Don't turn the word in my mouth! I didn’t say it’s ‘ possible, ’ I said, “will! ” Get the protocol, check it out!]] I will now explain to you what means “opportunity. ” The sentence that it is possible to rain tomorrow, Mr. Schieder, is just as much and means just as much as the opposite. That means nothing more than that it is not as well possible to rain tomorrow. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if you build your government concept for the coming years on such statements, then: Good night! [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: It's possible you didn't take care of it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, now to my previous speaker, to the Minister for Social Affairs: Well, it used to be the case that social and labour market policies were actually something similar to the heart of governments under socialist leadership. In the meantime, this heartpiece has become a pain, and this is also the reason that the working population, the workers and the employees, the service providers in this country, are running away in crowds and that you will not succeed in turning this trend around. No heart, almost no mind, these are the lean ingredients of this so-called government program. Today, ladies and gentlemen, if you are talking about the “connected imagination”, then you do not mean the magic game of Ferdinand Raimund in two lifts from 1826, but “caught imagination 2013” is your political self-understanding with which you approach things, that is the title and content of your so-called government program. That's all that's got to be done. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Minister of Social Affairs is also one of the co-authors of this piece of the "connected imagination". The question of future design, about reforms, is that of lustlessness and inconsistency. I do not know who will prevent you from finally taking up and bringing together the social security sector at last. Are you so afraid of these directors in the more than 20 social insurance institutions that you don't attack that? It's just your people, loud reds and blacks, you don't need to be afraid! Where the future is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lack of responsibility – responsibility towards young and old, because you do nothing but the pension lie with which you have actually built up your election campaign, even after the election in this so-called government programme. It is irresponsible to continue to operate with adjustments now, of which you know today that they are not worth the paper on which they are written. Don't be afraid of the truth, Minister of Social Affairs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The issue of future issues also concerns negligence – negligence in view of the dramatic situation on the Austrian labour market. 450 000 unemployed people are to be expected, and you have nothing better to do than make no fingers crumble in view of the next step of the east opening of the labour market. Do not say that there is nothing to do with us anyway, because you know that most of the work miracle, the high employment you are constantly talking about, is not employment that benefits Austrian workers, but it is an employment that benefits those you have opened and gate since 2011. And more gates are opened, even though the employment of the Austrians is poor. – That’s negligent, but that’s not a concept for the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But there, ladies and gentlemen, where it is about getting rid of and about to be brief, bring You used other categories: There is recklessness and injustice! The chancellor no longer speaks of justice – he has already given up this term – but only speaks of fairness. This is the light variant of justice. Where it is about briefing, and where it is concerned, check it out, there is injustice Your program! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or do you think it's fair to have the working population, the commuters, the people who need the car sniffed over by increasing the nova? [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Stop complaining about the VAT increases that exist elsewhere, as long as there is in Austria the special value added tax introduced by you yourself in the form of mineral oil tax, which in turn affects the service providers! You don't think about getting rid of this. Ladies and gentlemen! New to this government is not too much. One aspect which has not yet been mentioned: One of the two coalition partners is almost entirely in front of the prosecutor. This is perhaps a new aspect of this coalition government, but obviously this does not disturb SPÖ in the minimum.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e7878	The next item is Mrs Oberhauser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e7900	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! My first compliment today is to the Lord Signatory, who was able to give the speech of Mr Kickl, who had given any words of himself without air, without giving any breaks. [[Abg. Kickl: I can teach you!]] – A warm thank you from us for being able to do this! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It has already been mentioned by some that they have considered the speech of Mr. Federal Chancellor from 2008. That's what I did. Mr Faymann said in his speech that our response to the crisis of the financial and world economy must once again be to secure our solidarity systems and to preserve them financially. He also said that responsibility for individual workers and responsibility for people should be placed on the logic of the market. – That was 2008. We now have the year 2013, and I believe that a lot of what is in it has been done and that this is going on in this sense too. Let us look at the government programme, it has already been said a lot. Let us begin with the youth, with the training obligation – a big step in the right direction, in my opinion: to get young people from the street, to provide young people with training and also to ensure that they receive up to 18 years of age all possible training, so that they can not be abused by industry as auxiliary workers and auxiliary workers. This is a real step towards ensuring what Austria stands for, namely, well-trained skilled workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A second matter which I would like to give room to is the question of the generation of internship. Some of us were at a survey initiated by Mrs Schatz and carried out by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the question of how we deal with the people who arrived in internships at the beginning of their working life. I would like to make a small trip to the Neos and, above all, to the runway of the future of Mr Strolz. We were all witnesses there, as Mr Loacker started and landed, many young people were also witnesses there – only by knowing where to fly and where to land. It was said that he was branded as a person responsible for a company: from 16-year-old commercial school graduates, generation mobile phone that are unable to pick up and operate a fixed telephone, and still believe they are paid for an internship. Even better are the overqualified philosophers who believe they know everything better and get paid for an internship. That's the plane that's supposed to land. And then we do away with compulsory membership in the Chamber of Workers – and the Chamber of Labour lives, as we all know, on the fact that many people are members and that all people are also insured. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Schrangl]] Let's take them away all the hands, and let's see that this generation of internships might be out of representation. – This is the way that Mr Strolz’s government plan with his wings still lacked. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] On the contrary: We devote place to the generation of internships, will evaluate this and will continue to do so together with the social partners. On the issue of all-in contracts: These are first divided into a fixed amount and into the allowances – which is particularly important – not only for managers but, quite the contrary, starting with the smallest ones, because we all know that there are already all-in contracts from the porter. Another point concerns a demand from the GPA-djp of Wolfgang Katzian, with which he has long stopped, which has been touched by many: the question of easier reaching the sixth week of holiday. This has also succeeded: to anchor the government programme, that it will be possible to take account of the new situation on the labour market and to try to enable people – in order to stay healthy for longer – to reach the sixth holiday week. In my opinion, one of the greatest steps on the issue of raising the actual retirement age is the linkage of the retirement age with the employment rate of older people. It is not said that all people want to retire, but for the first time they look at how the pension is going and how the employment rate is set in relation to it. In other words, this is all in all a programme where I can say with good conscience that it is a social-democratic programme, one that in social policy also bears social-democratic manuscript, which we have negotiated together with our coalition partner in many difficult negotiations, and which, I believe, we will also devote space in the future. You'll see that we'll have gone a long way in five years.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e7986	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8008	Mr President. Minister of Foreign Affairs! Dear spectators! I do not want to give Mr Scherak the right way and say that I have the feeling that the government behind me is celebrating a party, but I would give him a right when he says that there is obviously a generation problem, even if the word “generations” may not happen often; perhaps other words may occur. I really have the impression that some construction sites are being approached, we also like to support you at some construction sites, but overall I already wonder where the answers to the really big questions remain in this government programme. Where are the answers when it comes to distribution justice? And there, Mrs Oberhauser, I do not see the Social Democratic manuscript at all, I am really sorry! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly, not at all!]] I am really sorry because we know that a few people in Austria are getting richer and richer, we have very few figures on this. [[Call:Are you rich]] At the same time, however, we know – and the EU-SILC numbers have come out today – that more and more people in Austria are getting poorer and poorer. Every seventh person we meet in the street is vulnerable to poverty, and every fifth person under 40 is vulnerable to poverty. I can also tell you in numbers: Almost as many young people, as Graz has residents, are at risk of poverty – only young people in Austria! And where, please, are the answers to this big question in the government programme? Is it really the gear? Is it the sect tax? Is the sect tax an answer to the distribution injustice we have here in this country? - No, and I've been looking for her in vain. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: compulsory training, dental clamps as well!]] I say it: many small measures! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] As a mother of two children, I know what a toothpaste costs – I know! – we have paid a lot for the gears of our children; but this is not yet a distribution justice, and that will not fight child poverty in Austria! [[Congratulations with the Greens and MEPs from NEOS-LIF.]] I would like to address another issue: Mr. State Secretary Kurz is not here now, but exactly what I do not like about the government so far and where I would like... – Ah, he is now a minister, exactly, apologies! [[Call the FPÖ: Minister of Foreign Affairs! He's already a minister!]] But I wanted to mention a great invention by him as a State Secretary, namely the Generation Scan – and I am now returning to colleague Scherak: It is said that there is a generation scan in the National Council, which we decided two years ago. The current Minister of State, then Secretary of State Short and then spokesperson of the Young ÖVP was very, very proud that there is more transparency, a stronger focus on the concerns of young people in Austria, that there is more justice. – I have the impression that this generation scan has not gone over the government programme. This generation scan did not go over it, especially when it comes to pensions, when it comes to securing the pensions of young people in Austria today. I would like to hear the answer from you, because you have previously excluded it: What is the meaning of the word “solidar contribution” in the recovery in the pension account? If that doesn't mean what we suspect is that the pensions of young people – from my generation and the next generation – will lose value, then please explain to us what that means! They say if the mechanisms do not grasp and if the bonus malus system – which we strongly support and which is the only big measure – does not take effect in increasing the actual retirement age, then there is a solidarity contribution to the upgrading of pension accounts – young people, I assume. [[Call:]] - All, but it's especially about the boys. If you already admit that it means “everyone”, that means that you will cut back on the pension for young people in the future. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: will not be made!]] [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: This is not done!]] – This depends on how much the age of entry increases and the measures take, and I doubt that this is really the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8135	The next speaker was Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8156	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have a slightly different approach. I was at the end of the weekend at the opening of a large ski lift in St. Johann, where the guests were brought to the top, that is, to the summit, and once again one could experience what can move true entrepreneurship in a region. There several million were invested in an investment, and a real start was created. This management has set the right impetus in the region's economy and created jobs. This is a great project – set up by a team and implemented in a very short time – and, of course, a huge chance of sustainable participation in the strong competition of the tourist regions. You will now surely ask yourself what this has to do with the government programme. I'll tell you: Even in St. Johann, the mood in tourism was not so rosy a few years ago, until a new concept of the cable cars created the basis for this set-up. Many conversations and persuasiveness were necessary in order to let everyone pull on one strand and realize this project. A unanimous municipal council decision and the consent of all shareholders to a capital increase were the start of this successful project. And that is exactly what we have here today: a solid basis, a concept for the next five years. It is up to us that we are doing the right thing out of this project with its actions, and there are many good approaches. If I am at the summit, at the top, then, I think, it must be our all-out goal to keep Austria at the top and to continue to position Austria at this top in Europe. We have so far – we have heard it today – beat ourselves very well and stand far better than many other countries in Europe. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Uh, but now we have to do something!]] It is important to build on this. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That was your boss with the "scanned" or what? Where is it at all?]] What applies to the touristists in St. Johann is equally true for us: With hard work, we must be consistent at the summit, at the top, ladies and gentlemen. Just as those responsible in St. Johann have taken their plans as the basis for their project, we must see this government programme as the basis for our work and implement it step by step over the next five years. Many tasks await us on this path. The ultimate goal is to achieve a zero deficit in 2016. The debt must have an end! We must strengthen the economy and thus also ensure employment. We need growth to do this. We all know that the budget depends on growth, the economy depends on growth, and, of course, jobs and employment also depend on growth. It is therefore right and important that we invest 100 million euros each in the economy in the next two years to boost this growth. We also have to do something – and there we were also agreed – against the threatening credit clamp. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We will support the liquidity of entrepreneurs by creating a medium-sized financing company, ladies and gentlemen. It is particularly important to ensure the competitiveness of Austria in the international concert. That's where we have the best conditions. Austria is export-kaiser, and everything needs to be done to further expand this leading position. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Steinbichler]] We have set ourselves a very important, ambitious goal: We now have 45 000 companies active in export; we want to increase this number by 10 000 by 2018 and thus achieve that we have 55 000 exporters in Austria in 2018. One more thing: We also need to relieve businessmen so that they can manage successfully. We have sent a first signal of 0.1 percent in accident insurance and in the insolvency insurance fund in the area of reduction in additional wage costs, which also relieves entrepreneurs visibly. So there is also a trend turnaround, which is an important sign. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I'll finish. Ladies and gentlemen! We need to secure the location, the jobs and the entrepreneurs! Successful is who implements. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8225	The next item is the report by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8254	God, Mr President! High house! Maria Theresia's state chancellor Kaunitz once summarized the three most important points of a successful state: first: a well-established financial system, second: a well-ordered military and third: a wise policy. – What do we have about it? [[Abg. Vilimsky: Frank said it differently!]] A well-established financial system? – If this government programme in the high tax country of Austria continues to increase taxes if it introduces anti-economic and anti-growth measures when it continues to push people into the shadow economy, then policy will continue to be removed from a proper financial system. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Financial policy continues to decouple itself from the real economy, the gap between government and population will continue to grow with this government programme. A well-ordered military? – Security policy, foreign policy, which appears irrelevant in Austria, the German army will continue to be circumcised. I'll tell you: As a small country, we also have a contribution to make to world peace, otherwise it will eventually fall on our minds. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] A wise policy? – This government program contains the promises of socialist paradise on 104 pages out of 124. This programme is full of beautiful speech, incomprehensibleness and anglicism. [[Congratulation of the Abg. New builder.]] In the last few days the question has been asked repeatedly, whose handwriting this program carries. – This programme clearly bears the manuscript of a man whose CV has developed on Parliament’s homepage as follows: First there was: Study of the Law; then you came up with it, no exam, it was there: Studies in legal sciences (not completed); and for a few weeks it has been said that no longer studied the law at all. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: This is your biggest problem?- Oh, my God!]] The policy is similar: In the election campaign, the socialist paradise is promised, and now we have a government programme in which it means: socialist paradise subject to funding. And as it goes on, we can think: no socialist paradise. That's how it will end. [[Abg. Wenninger: And that's bad?- Oh, my God!]] In this picture, the underestimation of education, the underestimation of science and the resolution of the Ministry of Science fit. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Who is the man on the homepage?]] Ladies and gentlemen, with all kinds of coalition optimism: This government program is a cloud-cuckoo home, an illusion! It is just as wrong to make high-trailer dreaming as the imaginary tribal table the scale of its political action and thinking. At some point, this glass palace will collapse, and we will have to return to the shards. Everything is promised here and nothing is kept. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. New builder.]] In reality, ladies and gentlemen, this financial-political dream mutilation will go well for a few more years, then it will have an end, and we will have everything to clean up. Other unfinancing demands, which only apply to one's own well-being, should no one put up any more, the beauty of one's own Irrealism should soon have an end. In reality, as a responsible person in this country, we must say: We can't put you under the Christmas tree, dear Austrian, don't believe in this state, believe in yourself! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8364	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8414	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the crowd lines and at home! Let's see if the g'scheite speech comes, Mr. Klubobmann. I would like to point out that I was very surprised that Mr Haubner referred to all the serious words of the word ‘a start’ in a breath with this government programme. I do think that is a measure, and I do not believe that this is in line with the feelings of citizens. But it does not correspond to your self-understanding either, because Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann started last Thursday with the words that Austria did not have to be reinvented. What he didn't say, but everyone thinks: We cannot reinvent Austria from the SPÖ and also the colleagues from the ÖVP, and that is the best we have accomplished. What I don't understand today and what no one now understands – from the commentators, from journalists, from the citizens, of course from the opposition – is that you act as if it were business as usual, that a government program is being crushed and that you don't talk about a big throw. Don't you hear the indignation out there? Don't hear the voice that says this is the last exit of this great coalition and it's a shame how to get here with Small-little is done instead of presenting a large throw in which you signal: [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Yes, we understood, we only have this only chance!Unknown term type: "%s".? Don't you hear that? You know, that's not a big throw. If you read this government programme – it has been mentioned a lot of positive things that are also inside this government programme, I want to share it; there are a lot of aspects in it that I think are good – then you have the impression that this is an evaluation report. The new Federal Government has evaluated what remains of the old government. Nothing else is this government programme! The program is bloodless, and this programme is mainly lacking one – that has already been mentioned –: the vision. There is a lack of the will to design, and that is why – and I find that particularly regrettable and, in fact, embarrassing – this government programme lacks policy. This is not a political programme. [[Congratulations with NEOS-LIF and representatives of the Stronach team.]] You have no desire to design, you have an administrative will, and you express it clearly. Why don't you make yourself up and say quite honestly: It's no different, we don't have an alternative!Unknown term type: "%s".? We are forced to cooperate because majority relations are so because we do not have an alternative through our bodies, because we have no alternative to rule because of the structure in which we are trapped, which we need in order to maintain our own power to continue our party book economy. We can't change, and that's the best we can do. The Federal Chancellor said today: We want the best for Austria! – I do not believe that this government programme can be described as “the best for Austria”. There is no vision, there is no courage, and with this last exit of the red-black coalition we are actually heading to an iceberg – whether this is an iceberg of debt or also in relation to generation justice. Mr. Federal Minister, it is not that there is no monitoring right now. There are monitoring reports from the Pension Commission. And if you've read the monitoring report of the last pension commission, you'll have seen that there's clearly that there's something to do in the statutory retirement age. The projects in the field of the actual retirement age, with the exception of the bonus malus system, are all already decided. There's nothing new inside. We know very well that we need to look at the 2016/2017 and then very well need to talk about automation and about further measures, including in the area of statutory retirement age. We know that. I wanted to address another aspect to the end. It was also said: We want to take responsibility together! In this House, “acquiring joint responsibility” meant giving the opposition parties the right and the opportunity to really participate. And that's where I'm talking about minority rights. I believe that I am speaking for all the opposition parties, if I say that we are willing to take responsibility if you only allow this Parliament, this House, to finally regain life in the sense of a genuine, lively parliamentaryism. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8499	Mrs. Mag, the Federal Minister, has been reported next word. Mikl- Leitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8520	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the visitor gallery and in front of the TV screens! Yes, security will also have an important role to play in this legislative period. This means that we will continue to work on security here in Austria and for the people in that country. We all know that society has changed in recent years. I am thinking only of diversity, but I am also thinking of demographic development. And, of course, in recent years crime has changed and will continue to change in the future. That is why we are also called upon by the police to address these new challenges to these new tasks, with the aim of continuing to ensure security, with the aim of, of course, setting the right priorities as well. And you see these priorities also in the government programme, where I have a few points to make. I can begin with the first focus on the issue of “modern police”. In order for us to continue to guarantee security, we need a further specialization of our police officers: Specialisation in the field of transport policy, in the foreign police sector and, of course, in the criminal police sector – in order to take only three fields out. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We need specialists who can be used in every region and anywhere in Austria, a specialization that serves security, a specialization that benefits the population, a specialization which, above all, also benefits the police. It is important for me to free the police, especially in the future, from administrative tasks and to reduce the documentation obligations, because I want the police to use their core competences, especially in their core areas. And we also know that you're not going to be a police officer or a police officer to create files to manage files, but to make yourself strong for more security in this country. This should bring me to another, second, priority, namely the fight against modern crime. The fight against international cross-border crime is undoubtedly a major challenge for us, a challenge where many answers are needed. An answer is “Argus 2. ” In particular, with the system “Argus 2”, we want to introduce a rule to cross-border crime. What does “Argus 2 ” mean? – “Argus 2” simply means strengthening video surveillance in our border areas. This does not mean, however, that we will have fewer police officers in our border areas in the future, but it means technical support from our police officers so that they can actually carry out targeted controls. “Argus 2” does not mean to restrict travel freedom – far missing – because travel freedom is important to all of us and, of course, should remain to the fullest extent. Another priority I would like to address is the cybersecurity initiatives and, above all, the state crisis and disaster management. Why is that so important to us? – Because we know that the state, especially the population, is increasingly affected by crises and disasters and the misuse of cyberspace. What does that mean to us? What tasks are involved? – This involves the implementation of the Austrian cybersecurity strategy, which we launched a few months ago. And this also involves the creation of a cyber security center with us in the interior resort for better coordination in the event of a cyber attack. In addition, we will of course also intensify the partnership between the state, the economy, science and research, of course also between the individual ministries. A very central issue for Austria is, of course, also the whole area of migration. This is about the objectives, the needs and possibilities of Austria, at the European level, the international level, but also at the national level. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] And especially in this context, we will continue to develop our general government migration strategy, such as with the Red and White Red Card or, of course, more intensive cooperation at European level and with the countries of origin. In the field of asylum, we will continue our way. In other words, we want to put even more emphasis on the tools of voluntary return, and of course we also want the procedures to be handled even faster and more efficiently. I believe that we are on a very good path with our Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. ==References====External links==
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8581	Mrs Bundesminister, I have to ask you to conclude because we have an agreed television speaking time. One more sentence. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8597	These benefits are particularly important for those concerned. There are many priorities which we set especially in the field of security policy, where I would also like to thank my negotiating partner, Mr Klug, where I also ask you, especially the opposition parties, to cooperate constructively in the future on very concrete solutions to the problem so that we can continue to be among the safest countries in Europe, yes, all over the world. [[Call the FPÖ:Three sentences!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Turn off!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8644	The next item is the speech by Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8666	Mr President. Before I refer to Mrs Minister's comments, in particular about the police and how the police are actually dealing in Austria, I do not want to touch on a fundamental remark which, from my point of view, has been lacking today, namely the handling of both of you – from the ÖVP, but also from the SPÖ – with people from your own ranks. I think I am unwarranted to see the policy of Mrs Fekter, neither in her role as Minister of Finance nor as a former Minister of the Interior, anywhere but to support or also to be pushed near Mrs Karl's judicial policy. What just bothers me a little as an observer from the outside is how disrespectlessly your own people are being dealt with, also with by Mr. Universitätsprofessor Däderle, who was treated in a way that is public, as is actually the case with politics in general, but also for you as a party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's similar with you at the SPÖ. There was a clubman, to whom I also have no close relationship – Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap and I are politically so far apart – where I think it was at least a spicy parliamentarian who spoke with joke and a lot of expertise here, for years for you and the bad politics that was made by your leaders, who took hot chestnuts out of the fire and was now simply served. This is not the sign of a respectful dealing in one's own ranks. And if you miss your own people's respect for respect in your ranks, then it is also clear why respect for the population is totally inadequate, as is manifested in this government agreement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now we are coming to the police, which has been treated by the Minister of Justice very carefully. You have read the article in the “profile” safely, Mrs. Minister, where under the title “So broken is our police: Underpaid, under-occupied, overwhelmed" was shown how our police were politically treated and broken. And there are very, very many areas of problem that cannot be eliminated by an ominous and headlined government agreement, but that is where you have to go! In recent months we have had a very, very tragic case in Annaberg, where four forces have died. And there were then in several daily newspapers – not that you now submit to us, that is our criticism of it or we would have there any half-paged informants, on the contrary – reports, very quality-based, with informants from different areas where it was worked out that the EKO Cobra, which has provided its services here on site, has a bad equipment that has been obsolete for the protection vests that too few officials have been in use. Because of the tragedy of this whole event, it was promised to solve all these problems. To this day I have not heard that these problems have been solved. Until today, and also in the Government Convention, I have not heard that sufficient financial resources have been provided to compensate not only the frustration of the police, the poor payment, the poor equipment, but also the importance of the police at last being given to them in our society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, you can also speak up about crime. The fact is that there are more than 265,000 offences every year, down to the hour, the 30 offences, every two minutes a crime that occurs in Austria. The study on the subjective sense of security of the Austrians, which was recently presented, also states that one third of the Austrians feel insecure at night near their own residential area, in particular women, people under 30 years of age and people from the urban centres of Austria. They do not want to travel alone in certain places near their own four walls in the evening. That's an alarm sign. This is an expression of the fact that our police need not only more men's strengths, but also more support, more money, more needs quality equipment in order to finally combat crime in Austria. [[Calls of the Abg. May. Gisela Worm.]] You will remain guilty of this with your government program, which includes a few headlines, but otherwise no concrete measures, and I personally expect you to refer to this tragic incident in Annaberg at last also with clear text, which has actually been planned by your resort to support our best deployment group we have in the Austrian police, on the part of politics as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8753	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8774	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If you follow the debate, you ask yourself the following question: What country are the speakers of the opposition parties talking about? Which country are you talking about here? [[Call the FPÖ: We have heard this for ten years!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Everyone, ladies and gentlemen, who comes to visit us, who visits Austria and spends his holidays or weekends here, notes the high quality of life in Austria with its organizations, institutions and laws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Insurmountable!]] Everyone, all Europe comes to Austria and looks at how the Austrians shape their state. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes! - Oh, my God!]] If you listen to that, you think you're talking about an overseer public here and not about the wonderful Austria. Neither Austria nor the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen, have deserved this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] And it doesn't get any better, Mr Vilimsky, if you say something that's wrong with better knowledge. Our police are doing excellent work. We should all express our thanks to her from time to time, and I would like to do so today and here, but we should not get our police officers into such discussions with regard to Polish statements! [[Abg. Vilimsky: What about the dead of Annaberg?! That's not a polemic!]] I believe that Austria in the international, but also in the European comparison – and I belong to those who say that every crime is too much – is really a safe country. The figures speak for themselves, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Sieber.]] Again: Every crime is too much! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what the Faymann I government has done with the increase in the level of personnel, with an equipment novel, with the attempt to help with many legislative measures of the police, together with the Minister of State, to raise them up in time, we will continue, as I think, also during this legislative period. The Minister has just expressed it. The Federal Government has given great importance to security, no question. And if we implement what has been mentioned here in a short time, I assume that we, item 1, have the staff there, where most work is, and point 2, that we are so specialized in our areas, up to the criminal police, that we can easily meet the demands of today and also the modern challenges – for example, cybercrime – at any time. The Austrian police have it all in themselves and can do it. However, I still have the power to put forward the motion for a resolution by the honourable Member. Arbitrator, bring in Dr. Lopatka. It is about creative growth to create and safeguard jobs, promoting innovation, sustainable development; answers in the field of education that are oriented at a maximum: to enable the best training for our children; Measures to secure our successful social state, which always have a view on generation-righteousness; solid state finances with a balanced budget, a structural zero deficit from 2016 onwards; a economical administration that provides the best services for citizens and provides permanent optimization; an economy and creative entrepreneurship that contribute to ensuring prosperity. Therefore, the National Council may decide: ‘The National Council welcomes the annexed government programme and its measures. It invites the Federal Government to submit timely submissions to support these projects in order to ensure that the entire programme can be implemented during this legislative period.’; This is politics for the people. I invite you to give your consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8887	The motion for a resolution just tabled by Mr Pendl is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8967	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e8989	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, in the House's plenary session! Mr Pendl referred an important question to us in the opposition, namely: Which country do we live in? [[Abg. Pendl: In a beautiful!]] [[Abg. New builder: In a well-attended!]] I give Mr Pendl an objective answer if he does not know: in Austria! And I give you a second answer: in an Austria where much more and much better would be possible, in which we would have a very different education system, a very different social system, no child poverty, no adult poverty, no burnouts than new mass phenomena on the labour market and much more! That's all possible in Austria. The resources are there, the people are there. It is not to be seen that in one of the richest, most richer countries in the world, these major reforms are not possible. It depends – we all know that, and this depressive state of the bank behind me already gives a visual answer to the coming questions – it is due to politics! If in a government agreement – so in invisible red-black ink – the ÖVP is emphasizing itself and the SPÖ lays down for five years, if it can be emphasized and located for so long, then it is simply and simply unbearable, because in five years from the labour market to the universities itself nothing gets better. That's what it's all about. What do we need 16 members of the government, if it is enough for this government programme to promise a standstill Federal Chancellor from SPÖ and a State Secretary from the ÖVP? – That would be enough. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What are the remaining 14 for? What else are these two government parties for? That is why – and I am quite right in giving one of my previous speakers from NEOS – I do not understand that no one in the SPÖ and in the ÖVP understands that, if this continues, it is certainly the last great coalition – if this term is still justified anywhere at all – in the Second Republic. There's something going to end, and They sit on the government bank and let this happen without resistance. That was not a statement of government – that was a farewell declaration you made today! This is the beginning of the great farewell of the former great coalition. Now the question is: What is the main task of the opposition? – Yes, of course, work together where there are reform proposals. But they don't exist! So it is probably the main task of the opposition and certainly of our Greens – and I hope, also from other political groups – to prepare the time afterward as thoroughly as possible and to keep the time of the standstill as short as possible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, we know for the first time on the day of a government declaration that we already have to prepare another government in this Republic, that we have to prepare that after the next election – and I hope it will come as soon as possible – there is a real big, factual alternative: an alternative full of education; an alternative that finally puts people's interests over the interests of banks; a European political culture that protects people from global surveillance and protects the rights of citizens, also from an Austrian Minister of Defence and not just from American spy institutions! That's why it's happening now, and that's why I'm telling you one thing in all its clarity: The weakest government in the history of this Parliament of the Second Republic is also the government which respects Parliament's rights at least! [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] That is why it will be one of the main tasks of the opposition to do everything in order for this Parliament to be able to control again if the government parties do not allow this Parliament to play a major role in the policy. But I am already looking forward to an alternative to this government. And I am looking forward to, together with other Members, shortening this time as much as possible and then proposing to do something quite different and much better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9057	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9079	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! After these conspiracy theories and after this slender step of a wonderful country in which we are allowed to live, through colleagues Pilz, we return to the materiality and government programme for the years 2013 to 2018. [[Abg. Neubauer: What “conspiracy theories”?]] [[Further calls.]] Yes, these are conspiracy theories! Also from your side, from the FPÖ: If in the case of Annaberg, it is claimed that the equipment of the police is outdated, then it is simply tasteless. Mr Vilimsky, this is tasteless and does not belong here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The police were brutally murdered, and They have nothing better to do than to roll this case up and back it up with falsehood as part of the Declaration of Government. [[Abg. Vilimsky: These are police statements...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Cancel this statement! You should be really ashamed of this procedure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are concerned about the future of this country, about the future of our children. This program is very ambitious. I will also explain to you on the basis of a few passages why I believe that this government programme can and will be very good in the next five years. It must be saved, and we find that in this programme, namely for a secure and stable future. We will have a balanced budget – under difficult conditions, yes, we have difficult conditions! But we will achieve a balanced budget in 2016. How can this happen? We save 500 million in the field of ministries, which is ambitious and will not be easy. The Federal Health Reform is taking effect. Look at this in Upper Austria too! The registration stop in the Federal Service will continue. Tax fraud is being fought. Now I read to you some passages from page 105 how tax gaps are closed. The Golden Handshake will be abolished. We will increase the bank levy. There is a limit of €500 000 for the deductibility of manager salaries. The solidarity levy shall be extended. Group taxation is severely restricted. Ladies and gentlemen! This is what you will find in this government programme, and this will also contribute to the sustainable rehabilitation of the budget. I do not understand the criticism of the opposition and I do not understand that you do not want to accompany us on this ambitious path, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another topic is the area of pensions. We have spent nights trying to find a good formulation. You will find this on pages 63 to 66, ladies and gentlemen: 60,1 years, plus 1,7 years – until 2018 we want to raise the actual retirement age. This means 2 billion more in the cash registers, both in social security and, of course, in tax revenue. This is a very ambitious measure. We will accompany this with mandatory measures if we do not achieve this, and with a monitoring that will take place half a year. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good step in the right direction, which is also necessary, but it should and should be mentioned positively here too. We'll introduce the sub-pension. We create incentives for longer employment, especially towards older workers, with a bonus malus system. Ladies and gentlemen! There are also offensive measures. I quote from page 101 in the government program: We must not stifle economic activity; this is not the case with this programme, but we must take important measures in the field of research and development, in the area of families. Look at page 25: There are the family measures written down. From the middle of next year – as promised, it will also be held! – the family allowance valorises, raises and simplifies. We introduce an employee success participation – you will find it on page 13 –: Up to € 1 000 a year, a company can also distribute tax-advanced to employees. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I'm not saying this is the cure for the future of this country. But important and very good measures are laid down in the government programme, which will lead this country to a good future. That is why I believe that this should be emphasized today, and I also ask the opposition to see it that way.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9174	Mr Vilimsky spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you to start your speech with the case to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9198	Mr President. My previous speaker claimed that I had politically instrumentalized the tragic death of four forces on Annaberg and invented things here. - That's wrong! It is true that this information about the internal economy’s savings policy is not from me, but is often documented in media, from “standard” to “profile”. A quick review shows that police insiders say: too few officials; no vests available; a reduction in the forces that were present. I am not going to let you say that I would have misused this tragic event in an improper way. The fact is: Ask your wife Minister for a concrete plan on how a situation is brought about from this tragic situation... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9234	Mr Vilimsky, you know that this was a political contribution and not an actual correction. I think we will have to talk again in the presidency about what actual corrections have to do and what they must not be. At least that wasn't one. Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9259	Mr President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Haubner – and I should like to comment briefly on his comments – has previously hoped that a zero deficit will be reached by 2016. Yes, the wish can already be expressed. The problem is: I do not take it from you because otherwise, instead of the current Finance Minister, you would have put up a party-independent finance minister who comes from the economy and knows what he is talking about. Then you would have meant it honestly, then I would have taken it from you. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The fact that it is a poor government programme has already been mentioned here: with not really concrete content, dirty statements of intent and so on. Let me now deal with the issue of internal security. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have the increase in the proportion of women in the police. I'd love to! Just you have to promise me something, and I miss it in there: Where are the accompanying measures? The problem – I tell you briefly – is this: We now have a lot of women, in Vorarlberg we already have a very high proportion of women, there are many in Karenz, in part-time or pregnant. The problem is: These overhang plans, which I have repeatedly called for, have not been built. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gisela Worm.]] That is, these women are missing out on the services, on the posts. It is the problem that no replacement is created here. As a result, the remaining officials are more burdened, these power out. We will then see the problem on the services. The solution you are planning now with the closure of a hundred police stations is the wrong way to divide people differently, but there you have to make a proper security structure. That's what I'm gonna give you. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Another question is that I have not found anything in the government programme: In the last period you have always propagated that officials are being treated 50 plus better that they have to do less night duty because of their age being taken into consideration. There's nothing in there. I've only seen – I've got to think a little bit – that you're demanding the modernisation of the equipment. We already have a very modern equipment, I have to confess that has done a lot in recent times. But maybe that's what you mean by that you're gonna buy 50 plus a scooter for the officials. Is that the new service vehicle? – You have to explain this to me, Mrs. Minister. [[Abg. Wöginger: This is not even funny!]] We from the Stronach team are happy to help you achieve improvements in the field of executives. You know my request from the last period for your own executive service law – Mr Ostermayer, unfortunately, is not here –: In the last period, this was pushed by the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of the Interior, back and forth, but nothing happened. I'd like to help you out there. I will sit down with you and explain to you what it is about creating decent working conditions, pay and pension regulations for executives, for these 35 000 people who are heavily burdened. You have to see that, too, and I want to address that here. How it does not work – you also have road safety in it –: You know the case of this whistleblower, this policeman who has discovered that here in Vienna a district indicates that seven organ mandates per officer and week, I think, must be spent or spent per month. – This is certainly the wrong way! We'll have to talk about it. Since I'm also a traffic speaker, I have to put on something quickly now. The Minister for Transport – and she is no longer here – knows my demand for its own freight track in Vorarlberg. That would be a real step. There's nothing going on at all, there's nothing inside. Unfortunately, the transport infrastructure in the west of Austria is neglected. We've been affected for years. If I look at the current government, I have to say that it is very ostrich and has a single minister from Tyrol who has to represent the West here. From Schützenhuptmann to Schützenkamerden I may give you the following, Minister Rupprechter: Represented West Austria well! [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Represented it as we wish Vorarlberger! Don't forget where you're from! You are the only one in the government representing Western Austria! I'll give you that, please, with me.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9321	The next item is the report by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9343	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Estimated citizens in the galleries and in front of the screens! Before I come to the government programme, I would like to make a comment on Mr Vilimsky's speech. They have complained that colleagues from ÖVP and SPÖ are being served. That may be. I can tell you one thing: This is not possible at NEOS! Why is this not possible at NEOS? – Because candidates are not determined by the party, but by pre-elections, through open pre-elections, where all citizens, 6.4 million voters in Austria, can also participate. The next opportunity will be in the European elections from January next year. So all citizens are invited to join us in the pre-elections. No one's gonna be served with us. To the government programme: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is a government programme without figures. But there has been a very interesting numbering since yesterday, a numbering work that allows us to take a look at the future, much better than this government programme. In this context, I am pleased to say a word of praise – unfortunately, it is not there, but I ask that the Minister of Finance, who has been divorced from office, pass on to her predecessors – a word of praise for the new federal budget law. The first stage was 2009, the second stage will be introduced with heurige year. This is 20 years too late, because it started in other countries, for example in Switzerland, already in the 1990s, but it is undoubtedly a step in the right direction and deserves recognition. In any event, part of this second budgetary reform is also the preparation of an opening balance sheet for 2013. We read that there is an asset of €90 billion in liabilities of € 223 billion. The wrong amount, the difference between assets and liabilities, is € 133 billion! There you can argue about whether the castle Schönbrunn is properly rated at € 285 million, whether that is appropriate. On the other hand, that's also interesting, the Hypo Alpe-Adria in it with an asset of €1.2 billion, where we all know that we only pay into the Hypo Alpe-Adria and that this is, of course, no asset. In any case, the conclusion is: This country owes its neck over its head! The tragic thing about it is: That's not all, because it's just the federal balance sheet. There is a lack of the Countries and municipalities; the debt of countries and municipalities is not yet taken into account here. Do you know what's not yet taken into account? – It is the long-term pension costs that can be found in the annex to the opening balance sheet. By the year 2042, i.e. over the next 30 years, expenditure is expected to amount to 400 billion for public servants, 60 billion of which are covered. At the pension insurance institution, the gap is even € 560 billion! This is a total pension gap of €900 billion over the next 30 years, which is not covered. These are per capita and nose, from the infant to the big in Austria more than €100 000 in long-term pension costs that are not covered! You, Federal Chancellor – unfortunately he is not here anymore – find that everything is okay. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] How irresponsible can one be to the people who are at work and who are directed towards poverty at old age? And how irresponsible can one be to our children and grandchildren who get a debt backpack that they can no longer carry?- Oh, my God! Conclusion: Commendation for budgetary law; overall, the foreign exchange is: “Unfortunately in the new times”. Dear Members of the Federal Government, that is not enough! That is not enough for us, and this is not enough for the citizens of this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9407	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is next spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9428	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank and in the House! Although, as I think, the areas of women and education are very well united in a ministry, it is nevertheless my job, in the future – and so I see this as a women's minister – together with your help in all areas, not only the help of women's speakers here in the House, but also the help of all Members of this House, to interfere consistently with the concerns and agendas that affect half of the population in Austria. This is not even necessary in part. For if I take up the chapter on employment, ladies and gentlemen, I note that there are a number of measures to increase women's employment, see quality as a return, and also in the budgetary field, that 50 percent of all funds for AMS measures – although women are less affected by unemployment than men – are used. This is a clear and good sign, as it is about training measures that may be a bit more expensive, but ultimately avoid long-term unemployment among women and make the return so that they are jobs for women and not jobs. The compatibility of work and family is attributed to a great deal of importance in this government programme. We, ladies and gentlemen, say and write € 750 million for children and young people, starting with the smallest – € 350 million, especially for the expansion of the first and important educational institution, the childcare facilities for those under the age of three. And now I've reached the point: I believe that in this government programme we have succeeded in seeing this transition from kindergarten to the first two classes of public school as a unity, that the transition of children from kindergarten to public school should be networked and interconnected in such a way that all know the portfolio of talents and curiosity that the individual children bring to the public school. If there are shortcomings – which we don't like to talk about – then people's school teachers know how to deal with them in good time, and they can pick up a lot of things that may have been overlooked so far. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] This transition is also very good at an interface that is also very problematic for young people, at the age of 14. We want to redesign the polytechnic school, upgrade it. We want to allow our children and young people better, more fluid transitions. And a school in which this is best possible is a school in which you go in in the early morning and out of which you may get out without a school bag in the afternoon. Here, too, parents should be able to choose what is best for their children. But this federal government wants to spread the offer so widely that at every school location in a restricted class this meaningful variation of leisure time, of learning, of projects, of discovering, of sport should be possible. Not only in women, but also in education, there will be many, many synergies of the individual departments: Education and sport, education and health. It will do a lot in the area of school health as well as in the area of the mother-child passport – if I may strip the family chapter for a short time. I believe that this work programme represents exactly that: to accompany small people until they are grown up, to promote them according to their needs, talents, to balance their deficits – if any – so timely so that the start into professional life, the start into a study can succeed well. All the departments are working together here, and we will prove this over the next five years. But let me perhaps briefly mention what has not yet been mentioned in progress, for example in the field of political education. I believe that it is very important for young people to develop the concept of democracy, the understanding of political events in a country – and, of course, I do not mean party politics, as you can imagine – in a timely manner. During the entire secondary level 2, i.e. for 10 to 14 year olds, it should be possible from the 6th century onwards. School level, where history is taught, to complete a mandatory module. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: I was already in kindergarten!]] Furthermore, one can also determine autonomous school – and this is something that we will be very extensive in the next few years – at the location, which is good for the region, which is good for the children, which is good for working at the school. One can also realize pedagogical concepts in such a way that one avoids the 50-minute lessons, solves the need and creates units that meet the pedagogical concept that is just right for this school. All this will be possible. Following the pattern of the democracy workshop here in Parliament – as Madam President Prammer has taken over the presidency here again – democratic workshops can be created at every school. I believe that the school boards are very much using possible freedoms, as they can also be discussed in future, whether and how their teachers are used in their schools. We don't just write about school autonomy, school autonomy will be lived. I believe that the full-day offer will be one of the most important areas in the coming years – and now I come back to the labour market and to my agendas as Minister of Women – in order to allow this compatibility for mothers and fathers. A dad-month, also a karenz money account that we will set up, a child care account will allow mothers and fathers to share in child rearing, child care, and yet both can go their way on the labour market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This ranges from science to the economy and to infrastructure. We want to accompany women on their way and let our children grow the best education.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9479	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9500	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! We have now heard from Mrs. Federal Minister – also responsible for women’s affairs – Gabriele Heinisch-Hosekge, what is planned in this government agreement and what this government agreement has to offer to women. This is not as little as it may seem to have the first appearance of reading “only” – under quotation marks – two pages. The first thing to read is this: the expansion and also the financial security of women's services and women's advisory facilities, covering the whole of Austria. – This is an important measure. Thousands of women search for information and advice daily in these service facilities, experts provide information here and help. This is a central question, which is perceived from Vorarlberg to Burgenland. Gender budgeting is also cited. This term sounds kind of bulky. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Is he too!]] But there's a lot of hidden behind that, that each department must ensure that women's policy measures are put in place in the area for which it is responsible, which means that the review of women's tolerance has, so to speak, a place to take place in these different sectors, not only by looking at where, but also for whom the money is spent, and thus also the second half of humanity is considered accordingly. Gender budgeting, which has been enshrined in the Constitution since 2013, has therefore also had an effective and efficient place in the various departments. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another important point in this government programme is the equal pay for the work of women and men. We have already done a lot in the previous legislative period with the Income Transparency Act. Here, however, work is being carried out and ensure that the differences in income between men and women are reduced. We will also ensure that there is a re-evaluation of the work, as it is not to be seen that the technical field deserves so much better than women, who, for example, are mainly active in service sectors – in the care, as kindergarten teachers or folk school teachers. Collective agreements are to be researched after hidden discrimination and, for example, parental care is also positively assessed in collective contractual negotiations. I am sure that the colleagues of the social partners, trade unions and the economy are ready to work to ensure that this injustice disappears as quickly as possible, that the gaps are closed here and that the differences in income between men and women are reduced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A very important area for me – which has always been a major concern to me – which is now also enshrined in the Government Convention, is the closure of the gap in the maintenance advance laws. There is something to be done here, and I hope that we will have a good outcome here together with our coalition partner. Not least, a very important area on which we had an event here in Parliament last week, a subject that we are constantly dealing with and which is also an example in Europe, is the question of the protection of violence. In this area, it will continue to be ensured that the anti-violence centres can do their job, that there are emergency homes for forced married people, and that more and more of the work is also done – and this is mainly men – so that there is a better situation and less force there, where it should be most secure, namely in its own four walls. In this sense, I believe it is a good programme that we can offer to women in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9568	Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9590	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Ladies and gentlemen, And most warmly I welcome the young ladies and gentlemen on the ranks that have endured so far! I would therefore like to pay particular attention to you, because Austria is not a country with large resources or land resources, because Austria with 8.5 million people is not able to play in the competition for mass production, but because Austria has its only and most important and valuable resource that one can ever have in the people who live here in our country and shape this country. In order for this design to function properly even in the future, it needs to focus on education, training, scientific work. It is important to strengthen our creativity and our innovative strength, to ensure that this country can continue to benefit from the fullness of its knowledge and ability in this country in the future. That must be our common effort. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, I am pleased that there has been a commitment here in the two fields of education and science: a commitment to the development of research, continuing and further education in elementary education, with the aim of creating training opportunities – €350 million, the Minister said earlier, is intended as a start-up funding; the commitment to creating conditions for improved cooperation between kindergarten and folk school, thus creating a transition that makes it easier for children to accept them well; the commitment to the clear focus of the folk school on the teaching of basic skills and, in particular, cultural techniques, reading, writing and computing. Allow me a little trip to what I've learned recently. I'm going to a meat shop and there the carnivorer tells me: I've been training young people for 25 years, but now I'm pretty slow. I asked my apprentice to fill the cube with three quarters of liter of water. And he looked at me and asked me how much this is now and what he had to do, so that in the bubble three quarters of a gallon of water. Clearly, we have not really developed not only what is a question of reading, writing and computing, but also what we call house mind. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: That's nothing new!]] That is why it is important to do all this together and to strengthen the families – and here I am in the family policy, which is very important here – to strengthen the interaction within the family. However, we also have a commitment in the field of education to the creation of real freedom of choice through full-day school forms, freedom of choice also through the preservation of the gymnasium. We do not need people who are trained equally, but we need diversity, we need the strengths of talents, the strengths of strengths and the weaknesses of weaknesses. The commitment to the promotion of talent and talent at all levels should therefore be particularly highlighted. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Why does the Chamber of Commerce say exactly the opposite?]] Let me come to the scientific field. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for his work, Dr. Däderle, who has negotiated the science package. Not only is it ensured that science and research will continue to retain the importance they had in the past. It is also about ensuring that students as well as employees in the university sector have appropriate development opportunities and opportunities. It is particularly important to highlight the expansion of higher education courses to 50,000, i.e. an increase of 10,000, and to improve the development of high-school courses for graduates. I am particularly concerned about something which is very forward-looking, but whose implementation requires an overall effort at European level. I would like young people to be able to spend a period in another country at least two to three times during their training time. Then we would not only have enabled these people to expand their horizons, but we would also strengthen European thoughts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9651	Mrs Gartelgruber is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9673	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! If you look at this working paper – otherwise you cannot describe what we have been presented here – in the area of women, then I could actually make the same speech as I did five years ago. In principle, nothing has changed about these things that have been and are being presented to us by the government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] She informs, advises, analyzes, but acts do not follow. And everywhere you find the call to all women, if already having children, but then very quickly back into the work process, because it hurts all women to stay at home for longer. All women otherwise get into the dependence of men and should quickly send the children to foreign care and early educational facilities, because the care of their own children at home is not what parents in Austria can give their children. But this approach is not just a mistake, no, I think it's a complete nonsense. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, there are women who want to stay at home with their children, at least the first years. Yes, there are women who even like to do this work and do it well. But that doesn't happen in your world picture. Those who fail to create financial and structural frameworks so that women can really decide for themselves whether they want to stay with the family at home or go back into the profession not only takes women's financial and creative scope for their own, but also stands in the way of healthy social development. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not know if you know the study of the University of Vienna, which has recently been presented: Women with children under the age of six would like to stay home for the first time and then go in part-time work. Especially against this background, it is necessary to upgrade part-time work in Austria – as we have been promised. The Federal Government and especially the Minister for Women should also ask what our children really want. Some of them can and do not want to be in foreign care all day. Ladies and gentlemen, this working paper does not include visions for the lives of women in Austria, how they can reconcile family and profession. It is a gay blabla and a continuation of leftist ideologies, which goes completely beyond the reality of women in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The women in Austria are not interested in gender mainstreaming or gender budgeting at all. But what do you want to expect from a woman's minister and a federal government who has so far done nothing else than to redefine the German anthem and enforce a comprehensive word negotiation with the I-I! [[Abg. May. Gisela Worm: Language creates awareness!]] These are not the problems that concern women. Women in Austria need a clear and strong manuscript, and we will be happy to help you implement it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9750	Mr Dr. Walser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9771	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! In itself I would have liked to welcome our new Minister of Education. However, it has, unfortunately, disappeared from us on the date of its entry into force, and we can not lead this educational debate, which was actually planned without it. I am sorry because it would be urgently necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: But she's coming again today!]] Federal Chancellor! Perhaps in the coming period, you will feel a bit stronger, perhaps you will support the Minister of Education in the coming years – no matter how long this government will hold – than it was in the case of Minister of Education Claudia Schmied, for they have left you in the rain several times. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: So I don't see it like that! On the contrary! But it didn't use anything!]] I hope that this will no longer be the case in the major projects. However, I have to put a question mark right away, because I would have liked to hear from Minister Heinisch-Hosek a little bit about big projects. Where does the government want to go? – We do not hear anything about how the educational situation will change over the next five to ten years. We don't hear anything about what Austria's educational landscape should look like in five, in ten years – small-sized, not big throw, it's not even thought of. Five years ago we heard: Yes, we will move the date of the educational career decision considerably backwards during this period of service. We will no longer separate children at the age of nine and a half years, we will separate them at the earliest at the age of 14. We're doing a common school with the New Middle School. It's nothing! The door sign “Main School” was taken down and “New Middle School” abandoned. Now, after five years, the announcement is not even there. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members on the government bank! That's too little! That's not how we continue the educational location of Austria. Mrs Jank! It does nothing if you regret that apprentices cannot expect them to be poorly trained if you simultaneously prevent all reforms for years to avoid that. We probably see small approaches in the field of folk school. Of course there is progress. By the way, you are doing something that you still rejected in March, namely a request from the Greens about the school entry phase, which needs to be softened. Of course, it is unbearable that we often put children against the will of parents in preschool classes. Of course, we need to give children more time. I hope you will take this path energetically. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek! I'm very grateful you're here now. Where it goes forward, where you go in the right direction, we will support you. They urgently need it. I have already explained in your absence that your predecessor is unfortunately not doing very well. Mrs Minister, I hope that we can discuss constructively in the teaching committee. I hope that your side will be a little more ambitious in the future than in your first speech as Minister of Education, because I have not heard anything about visions. But this is what the Austrians know: Positive visions for the future come from us Greens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9827	Mr Steinbichler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9848	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, on the televisions! Congratulations on this government paper! If the statement of intent on the front page – for the benefit of our people – is true, I can give the support and approval of the Stronach team. However, I would like to quote the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who spoke yesterday in the "Time in Picture 2" of the fact that the big piles are very missing. I mean, this is a very fair statement and hope that in the new period, politics for the future of the grandchildren and not for the grandsons will be made at the expense of them. We would like to support you. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka! If someone is the state of the world, you call it a witness of poverty. If this is your assessment of the state of the past government, then it will be left to you. But I mean, you already have to determine the state of the state to know on which foundation you can build. In advance, I must say that one does not feel that the courage of the national leaders who have already been addressed today is a very great one. It has not even been trusted – it is said that the head of state Pühringer prevented the federal councils from being replaced by members of the state's parliament and thus creating a genuine Chamber of State. So I don't think the courage was very great. We have already experienced the value of the family during the vote. If one is right in the first vote against the families, I do not believe that the agreed and necessary support for the families is now being implemented. We know: The child allowance is reduced by 30 percent, it has not been adjusted for inflation, and the most important time, namely the mother's time of education, is only 50 percent. We also need the relief of small and medium-sized enterprises. We want free citizens. We want free entrepreneurs – also at the innkeepers. We know that this smoking discussion is extremely unfair. Thousands of hosts have invested thousands of euros, and now this scheme is being called into question again. People should be able to decide for themselves! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The absence of Frank Stronach has already been mentioned today. [[Call to the ÖVP: Where is he?]] I would like to remind you once again of his proposal – which he has also made in the election campaign – that companies, banks and companies that go abroad with their profits are taxing and investing more regionally, because we need regional jobs. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) But now on the environment and on agriculture and thus also on health and environmental policy: Unfortunately, a witness of poverty has to be issued. Unfortunately, the successful farmers of the past period are not in the hall; but if you see the results, you have to say clearly: Estimated new minister! They have degraded the farmers to alms. They have been taken 50 percent of their income at EU accession, and today the compromises promised at that time are set aside as promotions. This is the most unfair way to treat a profession that today has to work the triple to earn the same as it did 40 years ago. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The largest court resolution programme has launched these successful politicians: from Molterer to Pröll to the ultimately unhappy Niki Berlakovich, who has never had the reins at all. 50 percent of farms were closed. This is the economic power that is missing in rural areas. On the farmers' incomes mentioned, which are always presented in the media: Only 20 percent of these funds arrive in the farmhouses, the rest goes into industry, processing, the ministry and the chambers. We urgently need a designation of origin. We do not need an AT stamp on Polish and Czech pigs. Such a stamp has only lost something on Austrian production. It is significant when, in Tyrol, where there are no pigs, the most bacon, and in Vorarlberg, where the least fruit trees are, most fruit juices are produced. The last government has increased its unit value, but it should have been lowered. The animal and meat supplement is a labour tax. With the agricultural diesel the farmers were taken €55 million. Look what you've done! During the current period, the farmers were taken money, which had been promised, with the aid package. If the agricultural policy is so, I do not want to have been there! The current profitability of farmers is quite simple: A breeding calf costs as much as once to tank tractors. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone in here who believes the farmers are swimming in money to jump into this pond once. You'll have a break-up landing. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr Rupprechter, you know we were separated in 2002. You went to Brussels, I was removed from the ÖVP and I had to work back to Parliament on new ways. I'll invite you to work together. The latter and, as I say, the most important point: Mr Glawischnig mentioned bee death today. [[The speaker holds up a glass of honey.]] I should like to make one last comment, Mrs Colleague: This is the environmental policy of recent years. Who demanded Biogas? Who asked for biosprit? In Austria, we have transformed thousands of hectares of most valuable permanent meadows, which are important for biodiversity and drinking water protection, and we have grown corn for them. We import palm oil from the rainforest for biosprit. This is not an environmental policy, it is an environmental destruction policy. Then companies advertise side by side and sell honey where there is no decagram of Austrian honey inside We take care of the bees, bee convention 2020, all of Austria swarms from the bee. [[The speaker shall keep a leaflet up to date]] - I don't need to say who makes the bock a gardener. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one last story, which is significant for our “Feinkosladen Österreich”: Plant spray cream, imported by agricultural cooperatives, and calfsleaf sausage with 5 percent calfsleaver. [[The speaker keeps these products up to date.]] It's not a fine food shop, but it's an advertising mess! We don't need that! Mr. Minister, we'll give you the hands: Let’s make this advertising taste “Feinkosladen Österreich” the real, classic fine food shop Austria for the best, cheapest health care, for our consumers! Healthy red-white-red foods are the best environmental policy, the cheapest environmental protection. Let me mention something before I then mention the prospectus of the freshly rich “fresh-supply action”; the only thing that is fresh there is the fisherman in the photo, but not the Argentine confectionery and the fresh Brazilian beef fillet. [[the speaker shall keep the address leaflet up to date]] Mr. Minister! You're a hunter: Weidmannsheil! A whole pheasant slaughtered – I don't want to be a hunter anymore when the pheasants are slaughtered. This is the freshness that is then offered to us in the hotel industry where gastronomy is offered. This is not a partnership. I would like to ask you: Let's go an honest path! One last thing I'm allowed to ask you right away. I know why you made an addition at the Angelobung yesterday with the holy heart of Jesus Christ. I ask you to let this holy heart of Jesus Christ work right on the alms. I also have a useful proposal from the Stronach team: We take unjustly 36 million € in milk surplus from the Austrian farmers and deliver it to Brussels. There is a 8.2 percent subcontracting across the EU. The proposal is as follows: We hold these millions in Austria and immediately solve the problem of pastures so that these most valuable farms that we need for tourism and our excursion destinations can benefit from them. Not for nothing is a cross on every alm, we should also take one step there. I'm asking you to do this. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9957	Mr Katzian is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e9978	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! A negotiation between two very different partners must always be considered as an overall package at the end of the day and not exclusively on the basis of individual points. In the discussion today, various questions have been raised and, of course, one cannot comment on all of them. I would like to address two issues raised. One was the question: Has something to prevent also a value, is that also a program? The other question was that of a social democratic manuscript. It is always true that the location determines the position, and therefore I would like to bring in my positions accordingly. So is preventing a program? – Well, we trade unionists, for example, are always confronted with massive counterclaims in collective treaty negotiations. There is a very important part of a good negotiation result. In recent weeks, individual demands have been raised – partly supported by major media campaigns. I think it was good to prevent some of these things that were proposed. There is no premature increase in the age of women's retirement. There will be no reduction in health insurance contributions. There is no automaticity in pensions where the computer decides and no longer politically responsible, elected persons. There is no deterioration in short-term work, in the unemployed and in the sick. There is no breakdown of social security. Ladies and gentlemen! The barrage that some industrialists have introduced has not taken place. This is also a great success in connection with these government negotiations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second question is how the Social Democratic manuscript looks. I naturally evaluate this from the point of view of an employee representative. We will get on our way to make the sixth week easier through better accounting rules. This was an important objective of the trade union last year. We'll do this next year. We have already discussed all-in contracts here in the house. It's charlatanry, in what bad way people are dragged through all-in-contracts that didn't even get rid of what people did in their work. In fact, they do. For the first time, the All-in Treaty will have to clearly show in the future, in addition to the total volume that is paid, how high the basic amount someone deserves. Then everyone can see if the difference actually covers overtime, night work, weekend work and so on. If you keep records of this kind, you will be able to recognize that this is not the case and you will no longer be able to sign such contracts in the future. I think that this is a very essential step in the redeployment and further development of labour law. I very much hope that we will implement this very quickly. I could continue the list: Harmonisation in the remuneration of workers and employees, restriction of unfair contractual clauses, bonus-malus-system in connection with the employment system, restructuring and new tasks of the Pensions Commission. In the future, not only the statutory pension insurance is considered, but also the civil servants' pension and the state support for the second and third pillars. I think this is important and a big step towards getting more serious into this debate. I could continue the list. We will have the opportunity, if we implement this, to discuss it in detail. Under the rule it fits, and all those points that we would have wished for, but which are not inside now, will become part of a lustful and committed political debate over the next five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10042	Mr Bundesminister Dr. Mitterlehner spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10064	Madam President. Estimated government colleagues! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers about ORF III! We have all followed the debate together today at least in part. I noticed: A few weeks ago, you made a special budget meeting and in this context criticised the fact that there are problems in development and we are currently having financial problems. On the other hand, today you are excited – not all, but some – that there is a reservation of funding for certain tasks. That's why I think: How do you want it in the final effect? A few weeks ago, you criticized the budget deficit, but requests for a pension for all up to €1200 were requested, as well as today, to return to claims, to guarantee this and that; and on the other hand, when it comes to expenditure cuts, I am, at least on the basis of what I have heard, still inconclusive where that should be. That is why I believe that we actually have a very reasonable course of action, one based on reality as regards the government programme, which is in place where the problems of the people are. As we have just heard from Mr Katzian about wonderful progress in the field of workers, I would take this opportunity to say: We need growth first and foremost. Fortunately, it looks like we could have a favourable development next year; and I see in the areas where we are forcing internationalization, with the founding of headquarters in Austria, very, very positive accents that we will continue to support in the future. This is our future to compete internationally. In this context, there are also initial discharges from companies. We will reduce accident insurance by 0.1 percentage points already next year; and in the next year we will cut by 0.1 percent as far as the insolvency funds are concerned. 0.1 doesn't sound very much, but it's €200 million. It is primarily about symbolism in this area, it is about countering it once and doing something for companies. Similar: You can all remember the election campaign. There was a huge issue in connection with the flexibilization. Now we have one, I think, in the middle of the road, at least as a first approach. This is about the problems that a larger bakery company has had with recording the breaks, travel problems where the passive travel time has been valued for apprentices and has led to punishments to the transition that you can have at least a 12-hour day for smoothing. That's what we've regulated. This is a great step forward which facilitates the work. We also provided for other things. If you extend the probationary period from one to three months, you can get to know the employees better at that time, and with that I will continue in the operational event. We have also planned a number of things in the area of debureaucratisation, which is less mandated. In my view, these are very concrete reliefs for the economy. In this context, we want to force investment. If I'm talking about investment, then of course one thing is clear: We will not be able to compete internationally in the wage sector, but where? In the field of innovation and research. Where we have the appropriate knowledge base, we will have the future. That is why I am surprised at the vehementness with which the reorganisation of the field of research and science is combined with our ministry is criticized, in particular by you, Mrs Glawischnig, and your group. I miss the fact that you're doing different things here. Speaking of a resolution is indeed a strong exaggeration. That is absolutely not given in this form. [[Abg. Brosz: Abolition of a ministry!]] For me, resolution means that all departments, all sections, all senior officials, all financing, the entire structure is threatened. [[Visitors at the visitor gallery vote in a speech choir, throwing leaflets into the meeting room.]] - Calm down! Calm down!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10101	The meeting is interrupted until rest on the gallery again!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10130	I'll start the interrupted session again. Mr Federal Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10156	Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I take note of this opinion, I also respect protests and can only say to you in this context: There is no question of a resolution. The autonomy is preserved, the structures are preserved. But of course, what is there in the final effect: Although the previous Minister has already done valuable preparatory work, a question remains clear throughout the field of science and research, that is the question of financing. Above all, it is necessary to solve these problems in the coming years and also to solve the problems in the form and to work out that we have a suitable basis. Now you probably ask the question: What is the claim then, why is this made? That's what I'd like to see relaxed. As we have already mentioned today, we have had this even earlier, at Caspar One and the other, and this has also worked easily. It is simply in the form of the claim to be able to make certain potentials even better and better in the field of research, without affecting basic research and without any other fears. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would really recommend one and also ask: Symbols are symbols, symbols we will also contrast with other symbols. The other is concrete policy, and that is what is in the foreground, and we want to work it up in the next few months. As I ask you for support rather than criticism, otherwise we will not continue in the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10192	Mrs Van Minzig. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10214	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! As an entrepreneur and a representative of interests, I am of course very much at the heart of this government programme to safeguard and further develop our economic location. It guarantees prosperity and employment. Austria has developed enormously over the past 25 years. Just remember, at the beginning of the 1990s we had a slightly different reputation or standing abroad. There we were a nice tourist location, if at all, but not an industrial or a successful economic location, and now we are among the top 10 export nations in the world. I'm used to it from the Federal Council that the opposition is bad for our economic location. It was a little bit of a Déjà-vu today. I thought Mr. Pisec was here in the hall. He was always my interlocutor in economic policy and has always put in place so slant economic theories, so under the motto of replacing the mental wind silence in the survey and in the preparation of operational hustle and bustle in plenary. That's what I was reminded of today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] But despite all of your downfall forecasts: Our business location is top, we are in the rankings everywhere, whether the research and development, employment and training is. We play in Europe in the Oberliga. I think there is nothing to add to the statements made by the Federal Minister on his new place of business. Thank God your insults are below his perceptive limit, for he knows exactly that he has done excellent and, above all, sustainable work in all his jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: But isn't a job!]] Currently, 80 percent of Austrian leading companies estimate our business location as very good. Of course, in the future, increasing the competitiveness of our businesses is the key to site development, and for this we have a number of measures in the government programme. Unfortunately, Mr Strolz is not here. It is a courageous programme for the economy, it contains a variety of different measures for all types of farms, from the EPCs to large businesses. We are also committed to an ideology-free industrial policy in this government programme, because without industry we will not create full employment. I don't think we're brave either. I am courageous, I have founded my company myself, built it up, and, unlike others, did so without support. I think the NEOS should tell them about their programme of courage next time they embrace them in the Vienna Forest with the ORF trees. What is important to me in the government programme is that the Damocles heavy tax on property – yes, it seems – is from the table, because when new taxes are in the room, this is always difficult for the investment rate. [[Abg. New builder: soon there will be no more of the NEOS!]] We have experienced that despite a very low interest rate, we have not been able to stimulate the investment of companies. Investing is not a Sunday walk for an entrepreneur, investing means stress for the company, for employees and also for the entrepreneur. Since we are not a low-paid country in Austria and not blessed with raw materials, additional farm taxes would, of course, be counterproductive for our location, not only for large businesses. We have seen the VÖEST investing in the USA: 25 percent lower investment costs, 25 percent lower operating costs thanks to shale gas and cheaper workers. SMEs are now also more flexible in their choice of sites. This is why I am particularly important for SMEs to have a modern employee policy with participation models and working time flexibility, new financing and, above all, guarantee models in addition to investment promotion models and the reduction of overregulation. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: This is the rhetoric of our government!]] I am convinced that this programme will trigger a motivating boost for growth and employment. Our vice chancellor has given you the hand to work together. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Not me!]] Take the chance!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10302	I call Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10324	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Just like my previous speaker: I don't know how You've got things wrong with us. We're talking about the economy. I don't think you know your President Christoph Leitl. He said that in Austria the economy has been “sanded down”. So this is more from the ÖVP and not from us. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Köchl.]] What we have been demanding for years is that we finally improve the conditions for the economy. In the election campaign, you have repeatedly claimed and are still claiming that you will create 400 000 new jobs in Austria by 2018. But then you will have to admit that this government programme will never and never be possible. Now I am not even saying that everything is bad in this government programme on business. There are also very good approaches. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] I congratulate Mr Mitterlehner on talking about simplifications in business transfers, business successions or the reduction of red tape. These are things we've been demanding for years. But, Mr Federal Minister, you know, in recent years in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, you have repeatedly stressed the need to do something in the trade order that is totally outdated. These are statements of intent by you in this government programme, and we will then see how you implement it. For the last five years, you have also said it in the Committee, but you have not implemented it – why, I do not know. In the campaign you once claimed that this is not possible with the Social Democrats. Now you are still sitting with the Social Democrats in a government coalition, and I am excited whether this is possible now. Perhaps it will also be possible because the Social Democrats have a new economic speaker and Mr Matznetter is no longer in the house. I don't know. I hope for you, I hope so also for us and for the economic location Austria. If you write things like an examination of the reduction of additional wage costs, I ask: What do you want to consider, Minister of Economic Affairs? You know very well that in Europe we are one of the countries with the highest additional wage costs! I would've expected you to write in, we'll reduce the additional wage costs. If you have said that you cut the insolvency fee fund by 0.1 percent and also the AUVA contributions – all of which are pure service providers contributions – by 0.1 percent, then you know that this is perhaps a good approach and a first step, but that's just Peanuts. What I have the most to criticise about this government programme is that you implement all the tax measures, everything that leads to additional burdens on the economy, with immediate effect. Now I come only to the issue of raising the NOVA, the motor insurance tax, and raising the car tax. Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs, has the flag of Austrian trucks passed you? Has it happened to you that in the transport industry over the last five years, major changes have taken place that in the meantime every second Austrian truck is driving under a foreign flag that thousands of jobs have been destroyed? And now you are talking about a further increase in the car tax, which concerns exclusively the transport industry – from 3.5 tonnes, you know that. This leads to a further burden and will lead to a further expansion of companies in Austria, where jobs are lost. All of this is not intended to guarantee these economic policies or the strengthening of the labour market, the additional creation of new jobs. That leads in the wrong direction. I can only ask you, Minister of Economic Affairs, that you rethink and perhaps start and implement those declarations of intent you have written here. Our vote you have on it, because there are really good approaches included. But what is now a fact and what is on the table doesn't lead to that. Significant for this government program is a statement by your Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Reinhold Lopatka on Friday on the show “Rounder Table”. You and my colleague were there. You have literally said: We've spent hours, even days finding formulations. - Quote. You know, it would have been better if you had put all the energy in it to find solutions – and not formulations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10387	Mrs Maurer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10409	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear students, if there are still some! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: They're already arrested!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: They're all arrested!]] Nearly six years ago, a rector was elected at the University of Innsbruck Karlheinz Däderle. And as Karlheinz Dägenle always does in his speeches, he used a Latin quote at the time to support his arguments. This quote was “In libertate veritas” – in freedom lies the truth. He used this quote at the time to give a clear warning: that the freedom of science and teaching is seriously threatened when economic interests come into play. In view of the plans of this government, I have tried to repeat this warning today. It is not just that the Ministry of Science should be abolished, it should be calculated with the Ministry of Science, which always expresses the clearest desire towards science and research. Mr Mitterlehner, you are now standing and saying that everything remains the same anyway, nothing changes, but in your speech you confirm all the prejudices you are making against this merger: It's about financing, it's about business, it's about cooperation between business and science. As far as the freedom of science is concerned, we have only heard from you that you do not want to endanger them. But I honestly wonder: How do you want to do that? Do you want to sit in the ministry with two different hats and always put the one on, depending on who is coming to you? I can hardly imagine that this works because the interests of economics and science are different. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS-LIF.]] The importance of science and higher education goes far beyond economic benefits. This is a lot more about overall social developments. But this significance is being trampled on by you and the government parties. They do away with the ministry, and the SPÖ is not even able or unwilling to do anything about it. It is precisely the same language that this government programme speaks. In the extremely thin science and research section, it is hard to see that you really want to continue basic research, the role of universities in some way in the next five years. Science and research, these are the areas of the future that are being prayed down at every award ceremony, in every Preamble, also from you; but you are moving these future leaders now to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and this is a symbol of how this government deals with future issues. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS-LIF.]] Because that makes it clear: This government obviously has no perspective for the future. In order to give science and research the importance they need socially, at a ministerial level, I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS-LIF as well as with the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] With regard to the quote “The truth lies in freedom” mentioned at the outset, I hope for support from the SPÖ and ÖVP ranks and, of course, from you, Mr. Däderle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10490	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10554	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10575	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the opportunity to express my express thanks from the speaker's desk to the outgoing Minister of Science Karlheinz Dägenle for the very good cooperation in recent years, for the good basis for discussion which we have developed together. Our relationship can be summarized in the best sense under the title of appreciative discussion. We have managed very often to develop good solutions based on different positions through value-added discussion. Even though solutions that are developed and put on the table often receive less attention in the public than open questions, I believe that we have succeeded. We should remain faithful to this style. We will continue to have the opportunity to stay in conversation with each other. You're going to stay with Parliament. You're going to be your party's science spokesperson. I am looking forward to further good conversations on a continuing good work basis with you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have also negotiated with each other the chapter “Science” for the next legislative period and we have also done a lot with each other, which is important for the field of science, for universities. We have decided to continue the way as we have already begun to develop the study conditions by increasing the capacity rather than reducing the number of students. to improve the quality of life. In spite of tight budgetary conditions, we have undertaken to expand the high-school places in the next legislative period by 50,000 places, to improve career opportunities for young researchers, to create better framework conditions in terms of work and study compatibility, and much more. Of course, I would also like to comment on the new division of competences in the Federal Government. I understand that the look of the new division at first glance makes skeptical at a time when the economicisation of education is something that one has the right to observe with Argusaugen. However, I do not understand when, in the light of the new division of departments, we are talking about the abolition of the scientific unit. There is no reason for this. There have also been longer phases in which the science resort had been combined with another resort – that has already been addressed – under Rudolf Scholten, under Caspar One. And if you remember, that was not the worst years for the Austrian universities. I assume that we will work together to ensure that the next few years will be good years for Austrian universities. This can not only be derived from a structure, it always depends very strongly on the personality that deals with what attitudes it will place on the importance of this personality of science policy. I – and I would like to remember – have negotiated education policy together with the new Minister of Science five years ago in the coalition negotiations. At the time I met the current Minister Mitterlehner as someone who knows very, very well about the importance of science, education and research for the future of this society. In this sense, I look forward to continuing our path with the new Federal Minister Mitterlehner, and I think he has deserved an opportunity anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10630	Mrs Tamandel is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10651	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The government programme has been highly criticised today. Some of the opposition have criticized that there are only headings. Some have criticized priorities or also called for other priorities. If we see ourselves at a time when we face major challenges in which the states around Austria have to deal with their debts, in which we do not necessarily have a low debt ratio, then we have to consider what priorities we have to set for the next five years, since we are not yet out of the crisis for a long time. Mr. Vice-Chancellor and new Minister of Finance Dr. Spindelegger said it today: Stable finances and a balanced budget from 2016 onwards are one. This will be a task that we all have to deal with, including debt reduction. On the other hand, it is also a matter of steering measures, so that the demands that we are always expressing quickly, namely that people should work longer, that the actual retirement age should be increased and that the statutory retirement age should be brought forward, that young people who are new to the labour market should be better The framework conditions are that the economy will not be inhibited, but that red tape will be reduced, will also be implemented. We must accept these challenges, and I believe these challenges are well illustrated in this government programme. Today, the criticism has come that many measures, such as the tax reform that we all wanted, will not be implemented equally. I would have liked to have liked to see the tax reform started tomorrow and decided next year. However, a tax relief, a strong relief with a volume of €3 to €3.5 billion, as it existed, for example, in 2004 and 2005 or 2009, we cannot afford at the moment. However, because we still confess to this, the government programme states that this is only feasible if the financial conditions are met. Nevertheless, tax reform is already in place, which has also been called for by the opposition in recent years. On the one hand, we are talking about the tax gap. That's what we're going to do. We have also repeatedly talked about the fact that the 1988 Income Tax Act has now become an almost illegible flickwerk, which we want to reinvent in a tax reform. Allow me to report something out of practice: Wage converters need to have extensive training today because they have to work with different basis of assessment. If an entrepreneur has to do this himself, he has to respect countless different basis of assessment and different evaluations as regards the tax system and the ASVG. We have undertaken that we in the tax group will deal intensively with this. As we are just talking about older workers staying in employment for longer, we already have a bonus malus system in the Government Convention, which I really welcome. A steering effect is to be achieved with a bonus when companies demonstrate their social competence and their social commitment. On the other hand, there is the full taxation for Golden Handshakes. We all know that in recent years companies of numerous employees who have paid up to five annual salaries have grown. This was then taxed at 6 percent, preferably taxed. And that can't be in the inventor's mind if you want people to stay in employment longer, because these golden handshakes have usually been for older workers. I would like to speak briefly to the families because today it has been said that it is not much for families inside. An increase in family allowances – and we confess that the families are our future – is very much in the sense of the families. We confess to this, and I am glad that this will come from next year. The offensive measures also include increasing day care in the school sector and childcare facilities. After all, the childcare allowance from 2002 onwards is a success project, but it is of course always improved, improved to meet the complexity of life situations and to create transparency and flexibility for families. If this is always ignored, we confess to freedom of choice. That is why I am glad that we are thinking about improving it for families and possibly even abolishing the limit of merit. In this sense: Please measure the government by its actions! Titles also mean that in parliamentary negotiations, something can be further agreed, something can be negotiated in. My trust is in this government, and I look forward to the next five years.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10708	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10730	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Today it has already been found several times that this new government lacks the will and power for reforms. It is new, however, that this government agreement states that one does not even have the power to get the status quo! That means, slowly, but surely, this country begins – as the WKÖ President has already said. Leitel said – to sand down. If we deal specifically with the points from the transport resort: With regard to air, air transport, Mrs Bures is innocent, as she has inherited a construction site from the most important and most advertised infrastructure ministers of all time. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Do you think Gorbach?]] At least she has come to believe that she has to do something about it, and does it quite properly that she removes this construction site. But when we look at the Government Convention, what it says about air transport: The air transport site is to be further developed in a sustainable manner. Two measures are absolutely necessary to this end. I expect a solution to the passenger tax. The solution is either to shorten, dramatically shorten, or to remove replacements. Germany shows how it works. This levy is a pure family excruciation. It does not benefit the airline, it does not use airports. On the contrary! It even harms airports in the federal states, and it also harms the air transport structure. Another solution I expect, which is not contained in the Government Agreement, is the final lifting of the landing rights for Emirates in favour of the Austrians, in favour of the Austrian AUA, because at Emirates the Emir, the King, starting from the airport, has everything in one of his own private hands from all the companies located around the airline to final taxation. Although these societies are repeatedly conjured into the free market, it is impossible to speak of a free market. The Emir is aimed at these companies, as it needs, and they are of course much better placed than all European airlines as a whole. Let's go to the next topic! Mrs Bundesminister, the Court of Auditors has shown in one of its last reports that a massive construction site has become via donau. In detail, everything is dazzlingly sketched inside. Bandl all around, and as soon as possible eliminate the construction site, and do not wait for Mr Faymann to do so at the time. Let's get to the ASFINAG! To say “construction site” would be exaggerated. The ASFINAG works quite well and pours out dividends. In our view, however, it would be better for ASFINAG to pay off old debts or finance new projects with this money, which it makes available to the Minister of Finance again. A dividend distribution is luxury. To the train a few more words. The VP is always talking about a “billion grave”. However, this is only because the respective VP Transport Spokesman cannot distinguish the difference between public services, infrastructure contributions and a ownership deposit. There are also a number of areas in which I miss the “socialist manuscript” mentioned earlier by Mr Katzian, but not in the jobs, not in the occupations, because it is quite possible to see them, but where it is about maintaining an ordinary full-way. When I speak of a full-way, I do not mean, as is planned for Lower Austria for example, a liliput track as in the Prater with corresponding safety precautions, but something like the Westbahn and ÖBB. This should be maintained, and I expect that this will be done, even if we come to speak in detail on the vehicles. For example, a modern train with a full repair book should come back not only with a partial repair from the workshop, but with a fully completed repair book. The topic of infrastructure: You only need to compare two works, the work programme of the Federal Government and this future business Austria infrastructure report. [[the speaker holds up a brochure]] We assume that in recent years our competitiveness has fallen slowly, but surely, and will continue to do so. At the same time, we know that a good infrastructure would raise a potential of €27 billion. So it is about studying this work in depth. [[Keeping a brochure in height]] All stakeholders, who are only somehow important in Austria in connection with this issue, have cooperated there. Consider that, put it into practice, otherwise we will all become the bankruptcy administrator of this Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10791	Mr Willi is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10813	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Above all: Dear Minister and Minister! As transport spokesperson of the Greens, I am referring to the mobility programme. When I, Mrs Bures, read your mobility program, I thought whether the woman minister had read the fairy tale of gold or even had a gold diesel in her office, because I see two headlines on this program. One is: Everything is possible. On the one hand the filling horn for the road and on the other side the expansion of public transport, comprehensive, manageable, accessible to everyone. You know as well as I do that all this won't go out unless you present us with your gold donkey. The second heading is: No one hurts: not the Chamber of Commerce, not the ÖAMTC, the ÖBB, the ASFINAG, not even the VCÖ. It’s such a kind of “wohlfehlprogramm”, according to the motto: nowhere can you ate! If you're honest, Mrs. Minister, then you know: In times of crisis, of scarce budgets, you have to decide either to expand the road or to expand public transport. We Greens are very clearly on one side, namely for the expansion of environmentally friendly public transport. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is currently going on is a reduction, a reduction of regional railways. I remember: Thayatalbahn, Ybbstalbahn, will soon be connecting Friedberg-Oberwart. That is the programme currently under way in Austria! We Greens stand for sustainable good public mobility. We know with our clear attitude where the trip is going, and all the experts are right, because this is what the technology talks in Alpbach have shown: The journey goes clearly in the direction that the meaning of the car goes back. It is becoming increasingly expensive, and starting from the cities, people are fortunately starting to organize their mobility differently. Your program doesn't support it, it doesn't help. We of the Greens would like you to change the direction with us to a forward-looking mobility, for which at the end of each of us has a mobility card, with which he currently retrieves the mobility he needs, the bike, the bus, the train, yes, sometimes also the car. On the basis of the cities, there will be this change, and I would like to invite you, Mrs Minister, that you go this way with us Greens, because one thing I already know: The future belongs to us Greens in the field of transport, and we will succeed in taking you along this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10861	Next speaker: Mrs. Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10882	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that the Government Agreement has created a programme that will determine this country for the next five years. The programme deals with a very important issue, namely the question of investment in infrastructure and mobility in the country. These are the key issues we need to address if we are to promote sustainable growth in our country, secure employment and combat unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Deimek has mentioned it before. I would like to ask the new Green Transport Spokesman to make this happen again. In addition to the Government Convention, there is an overall transport plan. And the chapter on mobility in the Government Convention begins with an indication that we are orienting to this overall transport plan. Aviation issues are a very important chapter, but also issues relating to intermodal transport – that is, the link between different modes of transport, as the mobility of the future looks forward – are a very central element. You see, it's the government programme that we're making choices for the next five years. Things that we have already put on the right course in recent years are also to be continued, and the basis for this is the overall transport plan. Let me also show you something about the discussion. What is the most important thing for people? – having work from which they can live to have an environment where their children can still breathe the air. It is precisely in these areas that my place of business is of great importance. We are investing today to ensure quality employment in our country. [[Abg. May. Brunner: By building new roads?- Oh, my God!]] In recent years, in contrast to other countries, we have shown that this is right: If we invest wisely, we can actually fight unemployment. We do not have the form of youth unemployment which other European countries unfortunately need to experience. We've been on the other side. We have not broken our country, but have invested in the future, for the next generations, and in particular for employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can also tell you that the starting situation is a good one. The enemy of good is the better, that's the challenge I'm going to face with you for the next five years. We have a good high-level road network. And yes, I invest exactly in the road, even in the future, when it comes to road safety. Here in Parliament, we have decided on a tunnel safety programme. We said we wanted a second tunnel tube. We all remembered the terrible accident in the Tauerntunnel. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, but then you have to remove the West Ring!]] Yes, we also invest in the high-level road network with the focus on creating more security and less human suffering on our roads. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we can do both: We can invest wisely and thus achieve employment and security, but we can also invest in environmentally friendly mobility. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, eh! Westring strike and expand the track!]] We invest as much as never before in the area of rail infrastructure. I recognise these investments, and it is so that we are among the best in terms of the use of public transport in Europe. We are European champions of rail freight transport – the famous modal split. We want to get even better in the next five years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will continue to expand the offer in public transport, both for people and for goods. We will focus on the relocation policy from the road to the rail, with an even better offer for commuters and also with an even better offer for the economy by building terminals. With more cost-truth between road and rail, we will achieve this in the coming years, together with the companies, with the ASFINAG, with the Austrian Federal Railways, with the via donau. These are companies that – fortunately – are future-fit today. A few years ago, they weren't. Today they are, today tens of thousands of people in these companies have a safe job, do excellent for this society, and therefore we will continue to expand and modernise these companies. That's my specific goal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One point, perhaps, because today a lot has been said about the question of the economic location, and rightly so. I always see this in connection with the supply of quality jobs to ensure people income and prosperity in our country. In particular, investment in applied research, especially investment, which strengthens the research location with which we strengthen the production site in Austria, is important. 650 000 people work in the field of production in Austria. We will support these companies in the future with new production technologies. We will make investments in the field of broadband with regard to the modernisation of our country, because that is all future investment. Finally, I would just like to say: I am convinced that these were very difficult negotiations that we have been conducting in recent weeks. But they were important because it is about the future, about five years of our country. I am convinced that this will also provide very concrete impetus for the future, for a better future. I look forward to working with the House. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e10981	Mr Spindelberger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11003	High house! After the issue of transport, I will deal with the subject of health and I would like to express immediately in advance my joy that Alois Stöger as Minister of Health will continue to run the health sector. I am saying this because, over the past five years, the Federal Minister has already demonstrated that he is able to address problems that no health minister could bring before him only close to a solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have to admit to Federal Minister Stöger that he was the one who succeeded in rehabilitating the health insurance funds – without any reduction in performance! All those who have just been on the verge of health policy will have noticed – because this has already been the subject today – that the introduction of the Electronic Health Act was a worldwide unique start. In the future, it will be possible to improve treatment safety and thus increase patient safety. In addition, a comprehensive health reform has been adopted over the past five years. This was put on track, and now it is said to fill them with life. However, ambitious health targets are also foreseen over the next five years. Federal Chancellor Faymann said today in his government statement that in recent years we have managed to increase the economic power in such a way that Austria rose from fifth place to second place. Now I dare say: So if we didn't have the disaster of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, which the FPÖ has caused, then we would have been in Austria for a long time the number one with all the data. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: Now this is going on again!]] [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gartelgruber: Let's make a U-committee!]] Finally, stop saying anything bad, because you from the FPÖ are primarily responsible for what we have to do now! Is it really so bad that you're always sick of everything? Despite a major crisis, we do not reduce the benefits. Is it bad what Federal Minister Stöger has in mind? Free tooth regulation, jaw regulation for children and young people as cash benefits – Is this really so bad, if in addition the child rehabilitation is extended and the hospital cost contribution for children and young people is abolished? Or is it bad if, in future, occupational health promotion is to be forced? All in all, as I have already said, are the ambitious goals that can be seen. On the comments of Mr Strolz: If you have said today that you are missing the push forward in this government program, I ask the audiences here on the gallery and also at home in front of the screens to look at your homepage to see what you understand under health policy. When I looked in there, I was so to speak left with the spit. Here in the House, you're acting like if you just want the best, and then you're doing something where I'm really bad about what's going on in health policy. If you say that in the future our health insurance funds should only be there for basic care and those people who need increased therapies need the spa stays that would have to catch up with themselves in the future, then I can't possibly go along with them. That's the wrong approach you've got. Imagine, if I suffer from a work accident and therefore need more therapies and a physical institute has to visit, then it can't be that if I want to get fit again, I have to get into my pocket myself. That's what I'm referring to. I am personally interested in such a policy. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Köchl.]] Finally, a sentence on the FPÖ: Yesterday, when I came to Vienna, I read the December issue of the “Vienna District News” magazine. I noticed an article, namely an interview with Florian Scheuba, and he got it to the point. He was asked how he sees the current political situation in Austria. On the question of what upsets him so much in Austria, he said: The whole affair around Karl-Heinz Grasser or H.-C. Bitch. According to Scheuba, I now quote: “I haven’t heard a single broken sentence yet.” [[Abg. New builder: a naughtiness!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: The Scheuba is a state artist! The state's paying him!]] Today, if you have followed the message of speech on the government programme, I can only confirm it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11121	Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11143	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's declaration of government by Faymann and Spindelegger and the debate that follows is a good opportunity to present the position of the government, the position of the opposition and the programme, the priorities and the solutions, and to carry out an evaluation at the same time. Yes, of course you can expect even more from a certain point of view. If you don't have any responsibility, most of it is. Then you still want to do much more than perhaps is possible. Ladies and gentlemen! But only criticism and rejection, as it is today, is a little too little for me. [[Abg. New builder: You haven't presented anything!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: It is also a government declaration and not an opposition declaration!]] If you are here in the House for as long as you are here, like my colleague Cap and my ability, you have experienced and discussed several declarations of government. But today – and I regret this – it is clear that: Rarely were the divisions between government and opposition so highly visible. Ladies and gentlemen! We are still waiting for your proposals today! Where did they stay? Are they present, ladies and gentlemen? Sound criticism and substanceless proposals, not a program, hot air, just criticise – this is a little pitiful! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Interestingly, if you look at Austria's evaluations in the international environment, in the European environment, it is noted that Austria is positive, much better than some want to make it believe us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] We are so good that many countries in Europe are wondering why it is possible that Austria is so positive. And then you get the one-sided song: Everything's nothing. Everything's bad. Everything is disastrous, not a big throw. Everything's gonna be blamble. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Can you read something positive?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am just saying: You should address this criticism towards your own party. There it would be quite appropriate! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Their economic contributions could be dealt with under the chapter: Conceptless, helpless, unsuccessful, unfortunately also subjectless. Yeah, they're not that big, though. It was sad attempts by so many opposition speakers to be the grandmaster of sharp points, but not to put anything on the tapet. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, it is strange to go right here on the first day after the new members of the government have been praised, and meet them with every ability. That's what I'm asking myself: Where are we anyway? I am pleased that we have a new Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and the Environment, and I am entitled to the new Federal Minister for Agriculture, Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter, welcome. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I ask him to cooperate positively. I'm optimistic. If Mr Pirklhuber himself drops to a very quiet applause, I am delighted. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Let's see! But that's up to you! That's the peasantry, and you're the president!]] At least there is a chance for positive cooperation. No one will be able to agree on the skills, knowledge, European connections, the ability to implement something in Europe. You will see, here an excellent person has been called upon to this function, and I invite you, including the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to help here. There is a great deal to be done in the coming years, for example in the CAP: Turn from historical model to regional model, new priorities, the possibilities of the second pillar, and, and, and. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Urgent! Almen chaos is the keyword!]] They will certainly be discussed, but one thing I say in the first place: We should try to deal with the matter together. On this occasion I would also not like to miss out on thanking Mr Preiner, the SPÖ's agricultural spokesman, but above all the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Hundstorfer, who was my counterpart in the negotiations, for the very fair, constructive discussion, for working together. Of course, I would like to include my colleagues in my group: Mr Schultes, Mr Geisler, former Federal Minister Niki Berlakovich. I would like to take the opportunity today to thank the excretioned Federal Minister Dr. Maria Fekter. She always had an open ear for agriculture. I expect the same from the Federal Minister for Finance, Dr. Michael Spindelegger. The crucial question will be whether we can work together. This will be asked by farmers at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11265	Next speaker: Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11287	High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is a great honour for me to speak before you today and to present me to the House for the first time. I object to the directly elected Members and mandates because they represent the Sovereign. I'm not in this You're elected to the house. You know, my life planning was another. I didn't apply for this position either. I was elected 27th. The Committee of the Regions elected by the Executive Board of the Committee of the Regions of 63 elected representatives of the members of the Committee of the Regions, cities and municipalities, namely, as future Secretary-General of the Committee of an international, European institution, which, in the consultation procedure, is working on the legislative procedure of the European Union and acting as a watchdog of subsidiarity in the legislative procedure, as you know. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] This vote was taken unanimously, with the votes of all the political groups, all the national delegations. I emphasize this because I had actually prepared for it and accepted a job offer to do it on 1 January. This work was started in April. The fact that this has not happened is because I have taken over the responsibility to do something for this Republic and to give it back. Personally, I would like to introduce myself to you as someone who is rooted in Tyrol. I'm from a Tyrolean mining family. I was the eleventh and youngest child. I am a family father of four children today. You saw two of them yesterday at the Angelobung, they're three and a half years old. It's a big change for our family. You need to know, I took this responsibility very seriously. My professional life course has led me to Brussels via Salzburg, through the study in Vienna in recent years. You know, I was here in the farm resort last section leader until 2007. We know each other from this work, and I also know the work of the High House of that time. And I am now going to deal with this new task as an Austrian Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. In short, I am of the origin and heart of a Tyrolean, I am a convinced European and I now work in this Federal Government with great commitment for Austria. This is my understanding, from which I will deal with my work. – Now there would be an applause. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to be able to work for Austrian agriculture. Leo Steinbichler mentioned it, we already know each other out of many functions, you have already been in different political groups. And I think you know what I'm in the agricultural policy for. I was allowed to co-form the Austrian agricultural policy with Franz Fischler, Willi Molterer and Josef Pröll. I have been working as an EU official in the General Secretariat of the Council over the past seven years. And I think you know, and I think my friends know what I'm in the agricultural policy for. That's why I'm going to take this out for the most part today. I am proud of the achievements of our rural families, who have worked hard over generations in harmony with nature. And I also become a producer of agriculture in Austria, which we design in such a way that we want to align it without the use of genetic engineering. And this must also be so in the future, as we have to decide for ourselves how we want to direct agriculture on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am concerned with developing modern, environmentally sound agricultural production, strengthening rural families and providing them with protective aid when attacked in the event of an emergency. I am concerned with quality products from the regions for people in the regions. The model of the pleasure regions has been developed by me. We need the healthy, environmentally sound supply of our country with our food. The welfare of the pets is a special concern to me because it is important to me how we deal with creatures entrusted to us. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This last year, a lot has been achieved at European level for Austrian agriculture. The reform of the common agricultural policy has been negotiated in the context of the multi-annual financial negotiations, Multi-annual Financial Framework – unfortunately I still have this English term inside, I have to get used to the German terms –. We can only thank the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister for securing the financial framework for this. And it was not obvious that there was a very good financial framework. Yesterday, the Agriculture Council adopted the CAP reform, which was negotiated for the first time in the co-decision with the European Parliament, as an A-point. I wasn't there because I had to be praised here. At this moment I would like to thank my predecessor Nikolaus Berlakovich, who has done an excellent job in the negotiations together with his department and with the federal states. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to thank Elisabeth Köstinger, who, together with Nikolaus Berlakovich, presented and negotiated very successfully a double spearhead for the Austrian agricultural policy at EU level at the Council of the European Union and in the European Parliament. Thank you very much. On this basis I can really work very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11380	Mr Jannach is now on the floor. - Please. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter shows that he wants to talk further.]] - Excuse me, Minister of State! I was firmly of the opinion that you are already at the end of your speech. Of course you are still talking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11401	Madam President, I am not quite at the end of my remarks. I would just like to say something about the European Union, because it is a big concern to me. 20 years ago, I was involved in the accession negotiations at Franz Fischler's ministerial office. I was involved in all the negotiations at all levels, both professionally and politically. And I was with you in the final negotiations. I know the conditions. I know what Austrian agriculture, the agricultural policy looked like before accession and what it looks like today and what Austria looks like today. Austria is today the role model at EU level. We are the success model, in the agricultural policy, but also in general. And that's why I'm a little surprised when I follow the discussion here, I have to say openly. We need international partners, not only in agricultural policy, but also in environmental policy in particular. And this partnership in the European Union is very important to me. I have just recently congratulated the newly praised ministers of the German Federal Government, Mr Friedrich von der CSU, my Visavis as Minister for Agriculture, and Mrs Barbara Hendricks of the SPD. And we have agreed that we will meet at the end of January in Berlin for a bilateral discussion. They certainly want to hear something about environmental policy from the new Minister for the Environment. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes!]] I am going to tell you something, you may not like this, Mr Pirklhuber. I claim I'm a greener of the first hour. This started in the Brandenberger Ache in the 1970s. I was in the Zwentendorf movement. And – Wolfgang Pirklhuber knows – we were in the Hainburger Au together with Günther Nenning – Peter Pilz I did not see so many times there – and with some others, Gerhard Heilingbrunner and so on. [[Rejoicing]] So I think I have gained enough experience in the last few years on the subject of green policy. I am aware that much remains to be done, particularly at European level, in the field of common energy policy, in the field of nuclear policy, in the prevention of the use of nuclear power, in the field of energy transition. If the energy transition is now going to take place in the Federal Republic of Germany, we have achieved a great deal in this area, as I believe. Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr Finanzminister! We will have to work together in this area, and I will invite you to do so. To the Ministry of Life allow me to make a comment. This place of business is the place of responsibility. I was there myself when we brought the 2000 merger over the stage. Today, this merger is the best-practice model in agricultural and environmental policy, and as a venue, this model is implemented in many other EU Member States today and is considered a role model. I would like to further develop this model from the Ministry of Life to the Ministry of Life, Europe, the Environment and Peace. That's why I think it's a little too bad that there's a martial statue in front of our resort. I would much rather have been a symbol of peace and a Mother Earth sculpture. Perhaps we can work together here, also with the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is the old war ministry!]] In the environmental field, I identify myself as a modern habitat management, which focuses on securing the life-bases of the human being and leaving nature its space. I would like to make three environmental politicians from Austria my reverence. That's Marilies Flemming first. She's got her 80 yesterday. birthday birthday. She's one of my predecessors. And I congratulated her very much on this. It is Günther Nenning with whom I was able to discuss in the course of the accession referendum. I was too anti-European at the time. That's why I didn't go there either. And I tell you, especially it was Freda Meissner-Blue. And this is a confession, a confession to my political homeland. This was the first time I've gone politically strange and elected Freda Meissner-Blue. She wasn't finally chosen as you know. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to prove my reverence to these three people. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It's green, it doesn't have anything esoteric, elusive or fundamentalistic for me. It is about no more and no less than wise enough to manage your own house, your own farm in such a way that you can pass it over in order. In this sense, I am working well with all the parties represented in Parliament in my agricultural and environmental policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am in favour of a black-and-red-green policy, a policy that focuses on life with values of heart and solidarity. And I would like to ask you to cooperate in this area. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11474	Now I've been on track, and I'm sure, Minister of State, you're sitting. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The next item is the speech by Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11505	Madam President. Gentlemen and women ministers! Mr Minister for Agriculture, I should like to welcome you here once again and make the offer from our side to work together with you to shape the future agricultural policy. However, I would also like to thank the former Minister for Agriculture Nikolaus Berlakovich for his cooperation, which was, however, a bad one, but nevertheless I should also like to thank him for this kind of cooperation. We hope that cooperation with you, Mr Minister, will be more constructive, better and more objective than it has been so far. I now turn to my previous speaker, Jakob Auer, because he said the opposition has no proposals. If you blame us for this, we could just say you're going out here and talk nicely about everything that's happened over the past five years. But that's not the case. The clear proof of why this was not the case is the redundancy of Minister Berlakovich, for if everything had been so good, there would have been no reason to replace Berlakovich and a compromise candidate, I can interpret this from the last discussions that have taken place in the form of government, namely the successors of Mr Berlakovich. It's all right and nice, and I agree that you've kept this point of entry here in general. In the future, however, I would like your speeches to be something of a substance, because you have not mentioned a topic that has presented a problem in Austrian agriculture in recent years, such as the pastures. You have not lost a word today about how you will solve the problem of pastures. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Her former boss, Commissioner Franz Fischler, said that it was a disaster, what happened to the alms, and that the administration basically failed. Here, too, my criticism of the predecessor, who in five years since 2009 has been known, has not managed to solve this problem. I would have liked you to address this issue of alpine farming, which concerns many farmers. Mr Minister, you have also not addressed the fact that there is still an unfair distribution of agricultural funding. We have in the government program, and that is what you have written, the change to the regional model. Now it is still so – you come from Tyrol, you need to know, and you know that very well – that farmers in the Western Länder have been massively disadvantaged to farmers in the eastern Länder for decades. It is here that this regional model, which is intended to bring about an approximation, is based on: with a transitional period of five years. It's too late! Especially you, as a Tyrolean, would have to understand the mountain farming and be for a much faster change to the regional model. I agree, however, that you were not present in the negotiations. As ministers, they have only just so to speak, because others have not been willing or have not agreed on one person. I hope you will change a few things in this government programme. They also did not address the fact that the 2012 savings package is extremely unfair. We have massive social security burdens, you know, which are now continuously increasing by 2017 €80 million. They have not managed to reintroduce the agricultural diesel, not as a support for farmers, but as a creation of a level playing field among European farmers. In many other European countries there is the agricultural diesel. However, I am very confident, and this is a hope I put in you, because you came from Brussels and were responsible for communication and transparency there. Transparency has been a foreign word in the Ministry of Agriculture and Life in the last five years. I remember the Minister's homepage with €4 million, I remember the unscrupulous support for Forum Land, the unscrupulous millions of funding that went to the Farmers' Association, and much more. Here I hope that in a good cooperation, we offer these from our side, we really come to transparency for farmers and for the citizens, because it is a lot, a lot of money in agriculture and a lot of tax money, which I believe is simply wasted and can be used much more effectively in other places. I would like to mention one point in the government programme. There are many points in here that I can sign one at a time, because they are generally held. Who will defend itself against a wide-ranging agriculture? - No human! Who wants genetic engineering? – That’s not a problem either. However, under item 2 ‘Improving and strengthening the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry’, Mr Minister, the first point is: “For the representation of the interests of agriculture and forestry at the federal level, a Federal Chamber of Agriculture is established by federal law”. Now I'm really wondering: We have nine Chambers of Agriculture, we have nine agricultural representatives in the federal states, we have an AMA, we have a presidential conference of the Chambers of Agriculture of Austria, and we have a Federal Ministry. Why do we still need a Federal Chamber of Agriculture to represent the interests of farmers? [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] The Federal Chancellor and also the Deputy Chancellor and new Minister of Finance Michael Spindelegger have indicated that they want to make an administrative reform. In this area, there is obviously a bloating of the administration. We oppose the introduction of an additional level here and want the opposite: a debureaucratisation of agriculture. If you have been responsible for this agriculture for 20 years, and you have said that here, then it must be your real confidence that this system is simply unreasonable for farmers in many areas. We hope that we will solve some things here together with you. From our side is this Offer. We want to end this downtime, primarily at the moment in the alpine areas, as a matter of urgency. We look forward to an appointment with you and hope for a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11599	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11620	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers at home! I think a government programme is there for all of us to know where this government will lead Austria over the next five years, that we know where Austria will be in the next five years. Unfortunately, for the environment, climate and energy sector, I must say: nowhere! I find it sad and grossly negligent that this government is unable to recognize the greatest challenge of our century, namely climate change and resource scarcity, not even the huge chance of Austria. Just the next five years will be crucial to whether we will succeed in tackling climate change, implementing the green energy transition. Unfortunately, in your government programme, there is nothing to be found in this direction, no goal where it should actually be long. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] The Federal Chancellor has already called for the vote to be taken on Zwentendorf in terms of environmental policy. You, Minister for Agriculture, have now also met Zwentendorf and Hainburg. That's both true, but that's now more than 30 years ago. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links==* Official website [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have also announced that you want to say something about environmental policy in your speech. Unfortunately, I have missed this because, unfortunately, nothing has happened to be done about the essential environmental contributions such as climate change, the fight against dust, the protection of our water resources, the participation of citizens. Unfortunately, these are all examples where Austria is no longer a model country, but – on the contrary – continues to fall back. Nevertheless, the Greens will give you an opportunity to do something from this nothing in the government programme. A small tip: I think prayer alone will not be enough, you will have to make active environmental policy as well. If you are willing to do so, we will also make constructive contributions, but if you – as your predecessors have regrettably done so – step by step with environmental policy, there will be massive resistance from us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, environmental policy in Austria has for years had a structural problem, namely the mixing of agriculture and the environment. Mr. Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger! You have confirmed that this is a Ministry of Agriculture, but I believe that a government that recognizes the problems of our time is quite different. It's my question to the entire government bank – because you're all responsible for it: Did you find the eddy storms in the Philippines, where thousands of people died? Did you know that we have eddy storms in Europe? Did you know that we had flood disasters that the pediatrician practices in Austria were full in the fine dust season? – All of this is due to the fact that governments are not able to challenge It is not only a question of whether or not we are going to be able to do something about it, but also about the opportunities that we have to deal with today's times actively. I think that a government that is facing these challenges must, as I said, be quite different structurally. Environment as a beiwagerl of agriculture will and cannot work. That's why I have to start, unfortunately, as I stopped in the last legislative period: Austria urgently needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11693	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11714	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I would like to address the area of EU and foreign policy. In this area, SPÖ and ÖVP have been able to agree on a common programme with which I am fully satisfied, because it contains a clear commitment to European unification, a commitment to the common currency, and it contains a strong commitment to strengthening the social dimension of the EU. For, ladies and gentlemen, this same weighting of economy and social affairs is ultimately Austria's success, and for this the government will also work in the EU. In Europe's policy, our biggest challenge is undoubtedly to combat unacceptable high unemployment in many EU countries, as well as the important task of sustaining and safeguarding European social systems. It can be said that our EU policy is also focused on the major objectives of our coalition, namely to maintain prosperity, to secure social compensation, to invest in growth and to stabilise finances. The government programme comprises a number of measures that we want to make important impetus in Europe over the next few years. These are particularly the measures against unemployment and, in particular, youth unemployment. We will also continue to work to ensure that a high-quality dual training system is established across Europe. To the countries that want to introduce such a thing, we are still at our disposal with our know-how, as has already been the case in recent years. The second important area for me is the protection of European social systems. Austria will be more committed to ensuring that the social partners are more closely involved in social dialogue at European level, and we are voting for common European standards to propose wage and social dumping. But we also want to focus on important areas outside the EU. Austria remains a reliable partner in international relations. We will continue to work to strengthen the United Nations and to participate in important peace missions of the international community, as is the case in many countries. This goes from Kosovo through Lebanon to the Western Sahara. Initiatives for the disarmament of nuclear and unconventional weapons are also an essential foreign policy priority. I am particularly pleased that the government programme expressly sets out the better participation of women in international peace efforts as the objective of our foreign policy, because, ladies and gentlemen, the equal participation of women is a fundamental prerequisite for the Success of many peace and reconciliation processes. We want to continue to play an active role here, as we have already done in the framework of the EU. Therefore, with this government programme, Austria is well equipped for the challenges of the coming years, and I am looking forward to good cooperation with both the Ministry and the Minister and with the other political groups in this House. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11762	Next is Mrs Mag. Aubauer in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11784	Mr President. Estimated members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now heard a lot of praise for this government programme, but also criticism. It was complained that there was a big throw missing. – Yes, but please, what is a big throw? Let's define that once! One can understand the following: The state should judge everything, work less, an anti-performance program. The others understand exactly the opposite of it: The market should guide everything, remove state subsidies. And let us take the pensions as an example. What would that mean? – Then the boys would have 30 percent less pension. And we don't want all of this! We stand for a solid way in which the new government is going, namely for reforms with a brain, for reforms without chaos, for reforms that ensure pensions for the current pensioners, and - as a mother of a son - for me - for reforms that also ensure pensions for the boys in the future. That's our goal. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] How do we achieve this goal? – We want to send fewer early pensions, more older people in employment who activate people instead of retiring, not all equally in disability pension, if there are health problems, but restore health. We have called for incentives to make further work more attractive – keyword: Senior Federal Reward Model. This is now in the government programme, a great opportunity for all Austrians. For every year longer work after the regular pension age, the pension will rise by around 10 percent, i.e. three years longer work means 30 percent more pension – and that is a lifetime. Yeah, isn't that an attractive offer? It's very important for us seniors: the new partial pension. How does that work? You take part of the pension, you work on part of it. So if you take only half of the early pension, you can continue to work on 70 percent and also cash 70 percent of your income. – A great offer! The condition for working longer is, of course, the appropriate jobs, and a whole range of measures can also be found in the government programme. We want to motivate companies, above all, that they do not send older people in early retirement, but that they continue to employ the elderly. In addition, the bonus malus system. – A good solution! The early boarding monitoring required by us will be introduced. Yeah, what's that supposed to do? – We then know exactly why, for what reason in which industry with what training, which qualification people go in early retirement, and then we can react. What happens if we do not reach the goal if there is not enough reduction of early pensions if the actual retirement age does not rise as we imagine it to be? – Then there will be measures. So you see, the program has hands and feet. You will find important choices in many areas that concern older people: more health care, the comprehensive protection of domestic doctors, the long-term financing of care and care. Yeah, that's a very special heart concern for us. I would like to take one point because many pensioners are getting very close on the stock exchange just before Christmas: As of 2015, there will again be the full remuneration of the cost of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many projects on the table. It's up to all of us now what we're doing from it. I'm looking for you to find the best solutions here together – for everyone, for all generations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11863	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11884	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor, a minister from your team is leaving me today. He has been here for two or three hours and has listened to Parliament, but he has already left. - Oh, he's back! Very good, I'm glad: Our Minister of Justice Brandstetter here on time for my speech. It can't be better than timing. If you are politically aware that you are here on time for my initiatives, then we have won a lot. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Just don't exaggerate!]] Mr. Justice Minister Brandstetter, you have already heard that other laws sometimes apply in politics: It is very fast and very early to be considered critical. Of course, this has to do with your change of roles: They were defenders, and then they slipped into the ministerial role. Of course, the discussion about your former representations has caused irritation in the sense that some people are, of course, asking the question of a conflict of interest. I believe that only the fact that this question of the conflict of interest is possible shows that we need urgent action, because what people want to know is the following: Is it possible for you to be a successful criminal defender for years in Causen, who are still on trial, that you can represent or advise there as with the Hypo Alpe-Adria or in the Telekom procedure, and can you switch to a different role immediately, namely, the chief role of the prosecutors? – This ensures irritation. And now you can answer that by saying that someone is an integrity and will already exercise his role properly, or you can say: In fact, there must not be that question at all! In fact, it should be clear that the role of the Minister of Justice and the role of the Chief of the Public Prosecutor's Office is separate, that the law of law, which now exists between the Ministry of Justice and the public prosecutors, is broken down and a modern new model is introduced, so that this debate on conflicts of interest does not arise, and thereby does not lead to confidence in justice every time such a change of roles occurs. You did the right thing in a first reaction. You said: Yeah, I'm ready to discuss the law. - That's the only right reaction. Any other response would have raised questions. But now it's also that we're taking you by the word, that's clear. We now expect you to actually address the reform project Realignment of the law, decoupling from the Ministry of Justice to an independent state attorneyship in 2014. That's the big project we'll be measuring you on. I say it kindly now: To your support, we make a request to give the impression. Our request is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Brandstetter, I would be pleased if you would also speak here today and perhaps this promise to take up this long-needed reform project, also here in front of Parliament, and then we will deal with this delicate matter together, thus re-establishing justice and prosecutorship in an important area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e11939	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12011	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12033	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! It's the same thing as before: Of course, I welcome the new government programme, as it includes many valuable and sustainable impulses, especially in the area of transport and infrastructure, as I believe. It is particularly important to me that this government programme is not a reduction and savings programme, but a programme that focuses on investment, where we can create jobs and promote growth. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, with the tunnels...!]] The expansion of rail and road is of enormous importance to our country and also secures Austria's economic location. Over the last few years, dozens of railway stations have been renovated, adapted, equipped for the disabled, bike packages tied up, the track expanded to the high-performance line, and much more, much more. This, ladies and gentlemen, is projects for generations from which our children, grandchildren, great-grandparents and great-grandparents can still benefit and become. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It does not come about that we are so good in Austria compared to other countries. Our common path “targeted to invest, save wisely” is right. We cannot save away the economic crisis, we also need investment. And that is why it is particularly important for the government to make a clear commitment to the construction projects in the infrastructure and that there will be no time lag. This also brings, as I believe, improvements for the commuters, a relief from road freight transport and more capacity in local and regional transport. Investment in infrastructure will create or secure jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It should be noted that an investment in infrastructure of around €7 billion will save or create around 70 000 jobs, and some 19 000 jobs will be created annually by investing in infrastructure. And something else is important to me here: Worldwide statistics on infrastructure show that in Austria we are among the world's top in the field of transport infrastructure. For example, we have the eighth place worldwide in the best infrastructure, the sixth place worldwide we can record in the area of the best roads and the number twelve worldwide in the area of railway infrastructure. That means, ladies and gentlemen, we are world leaders in this area, we have an excellent transport infrastructure and a transport system to which many envy us. But our transport system did not please us from heaven, but we have such a good infrastructure, because we have specifically set efficient investments to create common values for generations, as I have said, which – and it is especially important to me to reaffirm this – promote employment and benefit people. In order to maintain all this, ladies and gentlemen, further investment is needed, and you know that in the framework plan from 2013 to 2018, a further €21 billion is planned for the transport and infrastructure sector: 14 billion euros of this flow into the expansion of the rail, and the remaining 7 billion € will be invested in the road. So two thirds of rail, two thirds of public transport, a third road. Ladies and gentlemen! Every second euro invested in the road flows into road safety. And it is particularly important to say that we have been able to reduce the number of road fatalities per year by about 80 per cent since the 1970s. Nevertheless, Austria must continue to invest in road safety, as road transport needs to become even safer. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am confident that the success course will continue for the next five years by our Federal Minister Doris Bures, and I am looking forward to working in the transport and infrastructure sectors to make Austria even more modern, safe and above all more environmentally friendly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12072	The next item is Mr El Habbassi's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12094	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Love Seers and Watch the TV screens! I'm new to this house, and I've gotten used to a lot. I have become accustomed to a critical, not euphoric mood in the constituencies and the tribal tables. I've got used to not always optimistic press coverage. I can also deal with material and legitimate criticism. But what I still have a little to do with, and for which I have little understanding as a young person, is the fact that, as is often discussed in this House, this culture of reflective calls, the deterioration of a government and a government programme before it has even begun to work. I can't befriend yet, but maybe – and I'm confident there – we'll be able to wait, examine, let someone do it once and then judge. I'd like to. Now I would like to refer briefly to the government programme from the point of view of the boys. As a youth speaker, it may surprise you, but I have a good news: I have long considered this government programme to be the most youth-friendly government programme. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strolz: Pensions? Education?]] I am not only doing this because we are able to make first-class apartments more manageable and affordable for young people and families, not just because there is a clear commitment to extending the top-youth ticket and introducing a student ticket, not only because there is price transparency in driving licences and therefore mobility is to become more manageable, not only because political education will be introduced as a compulsory module at the sixth level, and not only because the promotion of young entrepreneurs will stimulate and create new jobs. These are all right and important measures, but in addition to all these solutions, which aim to help young people in their everyday care and to improve their situation, there is above all one point that I am confident of. In addition to all these solutions, there are also other future issues that will meet us in the long term, and this is above all that we do not receive an unbearable debt backpack. I think it ambitious and consistent to finally raise the actual retirement age clearly. I think it is a good way to secure the current pensions and also the future generations. That is why I think this government programme is the most youthful because it finally ends with debt making at the expense of future generations. That gives me hope! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Perhaps another pious wish, because Christmas is at the door and today is my first speech: I would like to invite you to help us together and give people the feeling that we are doing a good job and that it is worth putting trust in democracy! Perhaps in the future we will manage to listen more often, perhaps to clap and work together constructively with good news from other political groups. Let's take Matthias Strolz's German anthem: Let us go boldly in new times, and let us perhaps add: work-free and hopeful. – Let’s get started for our Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12142	Mr Brandstetter spoke next time. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12164	Mr President. High house! The legal problem raised by the Minister of Justice in relation to the Public Prosecutor's Office has been discussed again and again in the past. I myself, as a criminal lawyer, was often involved in these discussions. My appointment has now been a reason for the debate to come up again, which I absolutely understand. It was and is – I can assure you – also in my sense to discuss it and to explore opportunities for a meaningful reform of the right of guidance. That's what I'm for. I have the firm intention to conduct this discussion process with the involvement of experts and practitioners in the field of justice. This also requires the solution of difficult constitutional questions, if one wants to find a decent and truly lasting solution, because the ministerial responsibility as such is indeed a constitutional requirement, we do not get around it. Moreover, very complex criminal procedural issues will also be solved. And all of this doesn't seem serious from today to tomorrow. I come from the field of legal science and therefore I know that this requires an open but also intense discussion of all those who have already participated and are interested in this subject. However, you can be assured that I will be personally open to the judges of all the parties represented in Parliament to ensure that there can be a solution on the broadest possible basis in this sensitive issue of law. I would also ask you to cooperate constructively in this regard. As far as the motion for a resolution which I have just read is concerned: This comes a little too early and is too short in content as it is only one of several solutions proposed. In addition, the problem of human resources selection and resource allocation is to be speeded up. This does not make the debate any easier, but there must be and will be a discussion within my sphere of responsibility as regards the right of guidance as such. You can be sure of that. The issue is also too important to leave it short-term or even short-sighted efficacy. No, that just takes its time: in the interest of a well-thinked balanced solution in every direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12206	The next item is the report by Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12227	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In the light of the government programme, including the area of national defence – unfortunately, the Federal Minister is no longer present, has not spoken – one quickly finds out how much claim and reality can be separated. And this is also the case in the area of national defence. If we read in headlines today that you stand for a modern and powerful federal army, that we need a reform of the federal army, with more shift to the force, and that we need an increase in the employability and exercise of the military, then I say yes, that, I think, we all know. We all want to do so, all of us in the Defence Committee, in a fractional way, with different approaches. But we all know, ladies and gentlemen, that without the budgetary resources of this federal army, which is recorded and sketched here, there will probably not be any. And we all know that with around 0.6 percent of the gross domestic product in Europe, we are top riders, but unfortunately from behind, as far as the defence budget is concerned. And if we know today that we have to save 1 billion € by 2016 in the area of the army, and about the newspapers that know the media that we should save another 250 million in the next few years, I seriously wonder: What are these headings in this government programme really worth, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Militaryly speaking, the plan of implementation is not given, and I say quite openly, it is not surprising either. We remember, 2009 – Chief of Staff Entacher was still in office – there was this famous letter he wanted to hand over to the then Minister of Defense Darabos, who was not accepted at first, in which senior officers expressed their concern and said we have too little budget to fulfill our orders. Times have changed: In 2013, high-ranking and top-ranking officers come out and make this public known, for example at the State Defense Academy, at the LVAk, three weeks ago, where they unabatedly sketched and recorded reality, when it is said that airspace surveillance is no longer ensured, the procurement operations are challenged from 2014 onwards, the militia is unlikely to be financed and the budget for military reform, for which we are all standing, has to be deducted from other areas. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, so much to claim and reality. It must also be clear – the Minister of Defence is no longer here now – that military visits to and from abroad, various sluggish appearances and speeches in militaryly streamlined language are not enough to implement what is outlined in this government programme. But one thing I can also ensure for my group: We will work together, including in the Defence Committee, to implement these promises, but above all do and act – and not just talk about them.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12279	The next item is Mrs Dr. Mückstein's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12300	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm talking about health. Prior to the election, the SPÖ promises that the health system will be just and solidly financed, high incomes make a high contribution to the financing of the health system, self retention and waiting times will be reduced. – After the election: The exact opposite is the case. I believe that you, Minister Stöger, have been allowed to go over the table properly by the EIA and the market forces in that country. The health program reads like a neoliberal creed. They have launched the complete economicisation of the health system, the market orientation is increasing massively, and the solidarity system is undermined and undermined. It's a joke, Mr Spindelberger, when you say there are no rationalizations and power limitations. – The discussions over the last few days about the financing of the MRI and CT studies give us a bitter foretaste on what might happen to us in the next few years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Patients should also get contact persons who coordinate their health, say, where, how often and by whom they should be treated. Routine treatments should be covered with a standardized, i.e. reasonable waiting time. The long-awaited and legally planned cash contracts do not come. Instead, high self retention and private payments remain, even for children suffering from developmental impairments. It is also saved exclusively on the back of the patients and at the expense of the health professions, but not in the administration and in the structures. We continue to pay 22 health insurance companies with more than 13,000 employees. Ceterum censeo – I would like to say this all the time: Again no insurance contract for psychotherapy. For 22 years, for exactly 8 385 days, the right to cash-financed psychotherapy has existed for all those who need it urgently. They are permanently over this right and are therefore responsible for immeasurable emotional suffering and enormous economic costs.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12349	The next item is Mrs Lueger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12371	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Values of spectators and spectators! Family is a very good term, but family is not just father, mother, child. Family can be very colorful, very diverse and also very unconventional, and I think it is a living together of people who live equally in an apartment, together with children, but also without children. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Without children? What is a family without children?]] And here it is our job to simply create the framework conditions with this government programme that these families are well cared for. It is about the better compatibility of work and family while also appreciating family work. There should be a real choice. Mrs Gartelgruber, there is also an option, and all the alternatives we have identified and thought through are an approach for the next five years. With the participation and participation of the children and young people, it is already going to be said that they should have the opportunity to call always at “rat on wire”, and therefore it is important that this facility is preserved. But also for the parents themselves, for mothers and fathers who go in Karenz, there is to be better karenz management. For the return of both men and women, but also for career planning, there should be appropriate opportunities. The cross-section of the family starts with the children, and I am already with you, and if there is an improvement of the mother-child passport by evaluating it and developing it further, so, I think, this is an important step in the right direction. Early assistance to parents who have disabled children who face serious challenges is a good approach where we meet, and we will discuss it through. At the same time, there should be family consultations for these parents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Protection against termination for parents suffering from miscarriages – a point that has been taken up for the first time. These are parents who have never been thought of anywhere, as have nurses. Until now, nursing parents did not have the opportunity to be treated in accordance with the Mother Care Act and the Father's Care Act. They are an important and essential aspect, and we all know very well how often the newspapers look for nursing parents; we need them. For the expansion of kindergarten facilities, the federal government – which has been said many times today – makes these 350 million available. On the one hand, it is about developing childcare for those under three years of age, but also about creating a quality framework. The quality framework, the uniform federal law that we have passed by 2016 at the latest, is an essential contribution to ensuring that both the quality and quantity of child care are right. Finally, the kindergarten is not a care facility, it is the first out-of-home educational institution, and I think that is a good and essential point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] The further development of child care money towards child care account – we know exactly how difficult it is for the parents in these five variants that are currently there that it is unclear and you can only decide once – is a correct step in the right direction. And on such difficult issues where we have said, no, we can't find ourselves here, on questions like: If we are to abolish the limit of our earnings or do we make a limit of working time?, we have agreed that we leave experts and the social partners to find out how we can approach this issue. Young people are further supported in their schooling so that they can get well into their professional life. This goes so far as I say, we are continuing the implementation of the Youth Strategy, where there is already structural dialogue. It should be taken seriously to take young people and their opinions and concerns seriously. If we have written into this government agreement, unpaid internships must not be the entry into professional life, then that is a huge commitment. That is the right way for the families and young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This time, the government programme includes the item “leistable first apartments for young people and young people”. This is about young people who want to start a family, and if we support it, it can only be worthwhile. There are good steps in this area, good points in the Government Convention, which we are doing for the work of the next five years. If we take these points very seriously and if you want to cooperate constructively, we can certainly secure a good future for families, children and young people over the next five years.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12428	The next item is the report by Mr Schultes. - He's not in the hall. I would then like to speak as the next speaker, Mr Dr Karlsböck, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12453	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators at home in front of the televisions! So the Ministry of Science is saved. Throughout Austria and abroad, we wonder what an added value this should have, what benefits it should bring, what profit, what great opportunity for the population, for the taxpayer, but also for politics. In the whole civilized world, there is a science ministry because science, as we all know, makes a decisive contribution to the future of our states. The importance of science and research is always stressed in Sunday's speeches. This is emphasized – and then one sells the entire ministry and clears it into another, to the most unfavorable of all, namely the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Dear colleagues from the ÖVP! You argue the maintenance of the gymnasium – by the way we too – including with humanistic education – and then you will abolish the Ministry of Science! That's not going back and front together. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we keep this in mind and approach the whole thing a little pragmatic, then the following is noticeable – something that I haven't heard in these series today, so I'm going to try to stretch it out a bit –: The head of the ÖVP, namely Mr Vice-Chancellor, takes up the seemingly most important ministry, the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the entire Ministry of Finance is still being upgraded, so to speak, with two State Secretarys. I Personally and we from the FPÖ reject this displeasure with state secretaries at all, because if I run a ministry, I carry it all the way and try and do not have to hire any assistants behind me. So I now have a ministry and two state secretaries, and that means three offices, three cabinets, three cabinet heads, three secretaries, three service guards, three chauffeurs. You could continue to do that infinitely now. It means simply wasting tax money. If you put this into relation to abolishing the Ministry of Science, where you say: It all stays with the old, only the head is exchanged, I just don't have a supervisor here now, no contact as a minister!, so you have to assume that simply and simply in the rational consideration has been said: We just don't care now, we're taking this ministry and moving all these resources into the Ministry of Finance to create a new job! – This adds to the whole discussion that we have already conducted today at an ideal level. Why is science so important in the symbolism of one's own ministry? – We have often discussed this: Basic research against applied research. Applied research must be. There is no need to discuss that, of course, a contribution by industry is also necessary especially in applied research and many things are also positively occupied. On the other hand, basic research with the Humboldt’s ideal, which is perfectly under the wheels in such a look. We reject the economicisation of science. Of course, we also reject the symbolic depreciation of all the spiritual and cultural. Degradation of the entire field of science is disastrous for the scientific and technical location of Austria and also means a violation of the education-intensive citizenship. By the way, I personally believe that the Minister Mitterlehner has no joy with all this story. He comes to this whole thing like the virgin to the child and now still has to be shed. In order to achieve this, I am submitting a motion for a resolution, our FPÖ-10 point plan for Austria's universities, which has now changed to the current situation. [[Quoted print version removed]] A few words on what Mr Spindelberger said earlier about health. It has been said that it was all in the green field, there were no rationalizations through the government programme. – That’s just wrong! There are, of course, rationalizations: In imaging procedures, CT and MRI, there is a risk of non-cash condition. In summer, half of the AKH was locked up due to a lack of beds. And thirdly, you have to say: Radiation therapy in Austria can currently only be used at half a level, which means a significant reduction in the survival of the affected sick people.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12543	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12821	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Berivan Aslan. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12845	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests in the High House! Almost I would like to “gratulate” our new government that you have managed not to reduce the ministerial rate to even a third, i.e. to 28 percent, that you have managed to reduce the women’s chapter in the six-page government programme on two sides, that you have managed to support Dr. Heinisch-Hosek’s women’s resort and thus prevented an independent women’s ministry. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is not a doctor!]] Their policies on women and equality have failed to meet their own demands. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the last and also in this government programme, you wanted to increase the share of women in top-level policy positions. Result: In 1995 we had five ministers, and we have this number again, it has been reduced to five. If we have the same number of ministers after 18 years, this means that our equality policy has not managed to develop. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Did the women in Austria who account for over 50 percent of our electorate wait for 74 days for nothing? With this result, do you want to lead Austria into a good future? The women's quota is not a political instrument, but we are still in the back of the European comparison. Or do you want to claim that you do not know more than five women who are competent for the ministry? Or are you running symbol politics? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly!]] In addition to a higher rate of women, this government also needs a higher rate of courageous people. [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] Especially my social-democratic colleagues and colleagues have for all the time aimed at gender equality, gender equality and justice. Keywords: 40 percent female. Keywords: independent women's ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, be ashamed that you have looked at without any courage and power, how this government has almost assembled itself into a men's alliance! [[Call:My goodness]] I and many women are not willing to give you confidence, even if you are slying Austrian women's policy back 18 years, and not even if you have prevented an independent women's ministry. I “gratulate” once again that you have managed to carry on this standstill with no courage. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12921	The next item is the speech by Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12942	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers! Mr Federal Minister for Justice, we have created a very good and stable basis for the next few years in the framework of our working group on the preparation of the judicial programme. The Minister himself made a point at the beginning of his work, which we have often discussed here, namely the issue of the point of direction as regards the prosecutors. There are now only a few countries in Europe, if at all a country, and also few experts, who are in the current situation, as well as in the the Federal Minister has presented here, for real purpose. Therefore, we should discuss the possible new models and come up with a quick solution, as to how the right of guidance is best established. The fact that it is not well located in a political ministry is more or less the discussions of recent years. And even if no influence arises – it could be an influence – it is, I believe, not what we want for justice. There are enough models from the judgery, from prosecutors, from various universities, but also from this house. Whether that may be the state attorney or whatever the name, it should not fail how to implement it. For example, there is also the proposal that we here in the National Council should choose the state attorney. This proposal is to be drawn up by the three Supreme Courts, which, as I believe, can serve a great deal of substance. So there are a lot of good aspects. This choice should also take place with a two-thirds majority, so that there is a very high acceptance, because of course it is a very central person, who is then at the top of the prosecutors and is ordered only once, so there is no post-order, so that no influence on later developments would only be imaginable. I believe that we will certainly find a meaningful solution here. We have also talked about this, and we have also explicitly included in the government programme that, in the future, greater consideration should be given to the possibility of levying in terms of economic crime and the fight against corruption. We all know that crime, when it seeks its places, where it becomes active, of course also looks at what is happening to the assets that are unlawfully created there. And there would certainly be an effective instrument, not only in individual cases, but also preventive for the future. Group and collective actions should help to relieve the courts. We know that, for example, in the case of capital market proceedings at the Commercial Court, a number of proceedings are pending among many judges – I think 25 were at the beginning – and each individual judge must acquire his experience, his special knowledge in the field of the capital market itself. This is, of course, absolutely stupid. It would be much better if you were to make special departments that are targeted. And if you have common or similar facts, it should be so in the future that you can bundle them into collective or model complaints. It's like this: If one has one hundred complaints and one is a single legal question, which is really relevant, and we succeed in bringing this question up relatively quickly to the top with a model complaint, where it is decided, we can assume that these one hundred procedures will be resolved within a short time after the necessary clarification of the central legal question. And that's progress. I believe that we have created a suitable basis and wish you, Mr Minister, every good thing for our joint action. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e12996	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13020	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear representatives of the Federal Government! High house! For almost seven hours now, we have been discussing the present government programme in various depths and intensity, always from the respective point of view of the opposition or government representatives. This is, of course, legitimate, but what makes me a little sad is the fact that many of the speakers who have spoken here today simply made a flat-rate judgment. The speeches, it seems, have been written last week or last week, regardless of the contents presented today and presented very well by the individual members of the government, as I mean. I would like to see this seriousness in the debate on the subject from all of you. As you repeatedly call for greater dialogue from us on the part of the government, I too may ask you for more discussion of the matter instead of a lump-sum judgment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, such a coalition is always a compromise if two parties, which are roughly the same size, often have diametrically opposed views in social policy, social policy or economic policy agendas. But you have found yourself, and I think this programme, these 112 pages are a solid basis for the work here in the House and, of course, the government for the next five years. I am very happy to invite you to this cooperation. There are, of course, many confessions, proposals, improvements written here, with regard to which the government, on the part of Parliament, must be behind them, that they can actually be implemented. One of our main demands, which, I believe, exists throughout the House of Consens, is that we should no longer make new debts and that the structural zero deficit will actually come true from 2016. However, many accompanying measures are needed, and such a measure is that the economy can continue to develop well so that we can create new jobs and also secure jobs. I would now like to make an example of some of the points that are very, very well represented in this entire government package. The Federal Minister has already indicated that more than €100 million will be allocated for offensive measures to strengthen growth and employment in the next year and in 2015 respectively. It is also possible for the first time for many, many years, a signal – a million-severe signal! – to reduce entrepreneurship by reducing additional labour costs, by providing additional labour costs. In two steps, a total of €200 million will be released for relief, which, of course, will primarily benefit businesses, but this will further enable funds for investment and for further employment to be released. What makes me particularly happy is the fact that there is more international opening up of opportunities in international markets. For example, the Austrian Business Agency is to launch a Headquarters application offensive. Which is also remarkable: It will be formulated and implemented for the first time a location strategy for leading companies in Austria. That is, I think, a very, very important step in the right direction. It has already been mentioned by a previous speaker from SPÖ the better compatibility of work and family. There is already a need for action alone because of demographic change. We do not close our eyes to the problems. We have spent a lot of money on this in recent years and will provide more than €300 million in the next four years for the development of elementary educational institutions alone. So these are actually steps you can take to measure us. I believe that through the composition of this government, which contains many new minds, especially on the part of the ÖVP, we can implement this programme very well. I am looking forward to the implementation over the next five years and also to the dialogue with you, whether in the committees or here in plenary. I call for a serious debate on the part of the government, but of course also on the part of the opposition and I look forward to working together. You will tell us and you can tell us that Austria will be better in five years than it is today. That's what we like to be able to measure. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13087	The next item is the speech by Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13108	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! Dear TV viewer! Since Mr Foreign Minister has just been sitting here, I will deal with foreign and European policy issues. There is progress in this programme for the first time in Europe, because the government parties have written down the preservation of Austrian budgetary sovereignty. This is progress. There has been nowhere to date. However, this progress is highly relativized by the fact that it is surrounded by the usual formulations such as the strengthening of European economic and monetary union, the strengthening of the EU's ability to act and all these things. A demand for respect for budgetary sovereignty could only be framed with demands such as the termination of interference in budgetary sovereignty through Sixpack, through the European Semester, through Twopack and all these things. It's missing. A good example of this softness, I say, and this already announced remorselessness in the representation of Austrian interests is anti-Atom policy. We find the key statement in the Energy chapter that Austria will consistently continue its anti-atomic policy. The anti-atomic policy has so far stated, among other things, that we are still a member of EURATOM, the European Nuclear Energy Convention, more than 30 years after substituting or following the establishment of the Constitutional Act, the so-called Nuclear Lock Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Energy in Austria, where we pay between €28 million and €40 million a year for membership contributions. That's not little! If I convert this into heating aid, then it could help many thousands of people – you can imagine about that. However, we pay in an organization whose exclusive objective is to promote nuclear energy. The Staff Regulations of this EURATOM Treaty have been revised, last in 2010, i.e. in the “blessed” time of the last government to get out of the way Among other things, EURATOM has always blocked with the explanatory statement that it is important to have the Austrian manuscript inside the EURATOM in order to preserve the influence of Austria and thus to show the other member countries that the path of Austria is the right one out of nuclear energy. – I can still remember these words – apart from the fact that this may not be possible, of course. If one now uses the current EURATOM Treaty Statute, namely Articles 1 and 2, it is the task of the Community to set up the necessary facilities in the Member States “by creating the conditions necessary for the rapid formation and development of nuclear industries (...). It also states: 'to facilitate investment and, in particular, to promote the initiative of enterprises, to ensure the creation of the essential installations necessary for the development of nuclear energy in the Community'. For this we pay € 28 to 40 million a year. Although in June we brought together a soft resolution, an all-party motion in which it says – what did it say? –: The Federal Government may use all possible means to convene a EURATOM contractual revision procedure with the aim of the nuclear exodus. - It did. In the meantime, however, there are reactions from all the key partners who have said: Njet, the contract is not amended. The objective remains to strengthen and maintain nuclear energy as an essential part of European energy security; The word leader is primarily France. I believe, therefore, that it is time for us, as parliamentarians, as self-confident parliamentarians, to help the government a little backbone and at last call on them to end this EURATOM madness, this action against our constitutional principles, this promotion with millions, dozens of millions of taxpayers of things against which we are supposed to be, according to government programme, vehement. There is now also a legal opinion of a Salzburg international law expert who has said that it is very possible to get out of the EURATOM Treaty, that is not a problem. We from FPÖ therefore submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think we should get through with this request. I would therefore ask for broad approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13197	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Hübner is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13254	Next speaker: Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13275	Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! Appreciate High House! Estimated participating gentlemen on the government bank! It is an honor for me to stand here today for the first time as a directly elected greener for Carinthia. With 37,000 votes from people from Carinthia in the back, we have seen the historic chance in the election. One thing I would like to say to Mr Strache, who, as it were, once again turns out to be absent, namely that this system was chosen in Carinthia. Mr. Strache, who presents himself as the solution here today, has proved, especially in the Federal Republic of Carinthia with FPÖ, that the whole system has led to a disaster – the hypo and the entire financial performance of the country as an example. [[Abg. Singer: You don't know yourself anyway!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] So those who create a disaster at another level should not come here and then pretend as if they were the solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] However, I would also like to ask Mr Faymann, who also shines by absence, what he was concerned about in 1981 when he went to politics. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Mr. Strache is just talking to Mr. Pilz outside!]] When he remembers, he must have had real concerns at first; however, once the mandates were there, one has forgotten these concerns. I would like to ask Mr Spindelegger, the same question he had at the time, in 1987, for concerns and ideas, who also shines by absence. If he remembers, I'd like to ask him: What's left of it? Is it really what is being presented to us today as a government programme? In my eyes, this is more a system in which red and black have put each other in chains. This government programme is, in fact, only to be rejected from the Greens' point of view. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With regard to the ÖVP: It's a little hard for me to talk to empty ÖVP banks here, but be it, okay. From the ÖVP side comes all the time the call for zero deficit, zero deficit, zero deficit. – There is quite a boost when you look at the fact that you actually take the scope of the design. The Greens' approach is to invest, to invest anticyclically. We have many possibilities, for example in the field of renewable energy, where we send €14 billion annually for energy imports almost abroad. But we also have many opportunities in an area that is particularly important to me, namely the one-person companies, entrepreneurs in Austria – a quarter of a million people who are not mentioned in the government programme with a word! ‘EPU’, ‘one-person company’, does not appear in this government programme. There are already a number of large construction sites in this area, for example in the area of social security, because it is simply cynical, only from 43. Pay off sick leave. This also applies to crowdfunding, i.e. financing the real economy, a green approach: Away from the banks to real things, as the Heini Staudinger, for example, showed. – This is largely lacking in this government programme. [[Abg. Wenninger: That's not true!]] – It's done with a few sentences. It's largely missing, I've read it. [[Abg. Wenninger: This is what Glavischnig praised on TV!]] – It is all very, very weak, mentioned with a sentence, but we have much further ideas there. We should finally take real steps with regard to bureaucracy and unraveling the trade order. As a Greener, I would like to make my contribution to disseminating these mutual bonds of red and black by detachment in this sense. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13373	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13394	Mr President. I congratulate our detachment artist on his first appearance. I cannot now comment on all the reflective rejections of the opposition, but I would like to refer to the Mr Aslan. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the I can't resist what you said, because it's precisely the women's and education departments that make an incredible amount of synergies possible. I saw that myself. I myself led the women's and education districts in Styria. One can be very efficient, effective in terms of social change and awareness-building and thus truly sustainable in terms of social change. Our Minister of Women and Education Gabriele Heinisch-Hosekist is a guarantee that these synergies are also best used. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wöger.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the government agreement also contains many improvements in the field of consumer protection. Especially in the sense of balance, this is also quite, absolutely necessary and important; it is about people living well with their hard-earned money and with their incomes too. That is why it has also been very important to me that group complaints are forced so that not everyone has to complain at high risk individually, but that the claims can be filed efficiently together. This would also entail a substantial relief from the courts. A return on the burden of proof in the event of price abuse by dominant companies is planned, particularly in the energy sector. Fair competition rules are to exist, especially in the field of advertising, where it is necessary to ensure that people are not brought to light by misleading advertising. The purpose of fines is intended to be dedicated to the CCI. Improved and clearer food labelling is envisaged. Debt advice will be expanded, which is also urgently needed, because demand is unfortunately constantly rising, and of course we have to do so. But this is mainly about the preventive effect. Information and prevention are the main areas of consumer protection and consumer protection. We agree that it is best to start as early as possible in the youth age. This also shows that consumer protection is a classic cross-sectional matter that all resorts demand. Especially the Minister of Justice will be required in the near future with the implementation of the Consumer Protection Directive. I would also have a tip for our new Minister of Justice: Get back to the implementation tires draft of the Social Ministry, then you are on the safe side!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13458	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13479	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This government programme is the result of the coalition negotiations in recent weeks. Of course, the two parties SPÖ and ÖVP do not find themselves a hundred percent in this coalition pact. Nevertheless, we share this agreement. In my opinion, an important sentence from the Government Declaration was the following: Respect as the basis of commonness. – Yes, I would like to express this respect from my position as a farmer, especially the negotiators of the agricultural issue, both on the sides of the ÖVP and on the sides of the SPÖ, especially Mr Hundstorfer, who has thrown the ideological obstacles overboard and recognized the need for agriculture. I would really like to show you respect, Mr Hundstorfer. This result, I believe, is a good basis for our new Minister for Agriculture Rupprechter. I would, however, like to give him two points of concern. On the one hand, even if he is not here now, he will of course find out, Mr Pirklhuber, the topic of alpine exploration. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: He's not here! Send him a letter!]] This system is no longer portable for the future. We hope and we expect it to find a solution here very soon in the interests of the farmers. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: He's not here!]] The second issue is the super levy on Austria. In times when the European dairy market is open to consumption, it makes no sense to super-duty farmers. I believe that this is why the Ministry has to come up with an advance at the Brussels level and see me here on a line with Leo Steinbichler from the Stronach team, which is quite amazing, because until a few years ago he tried with exactly the opposite opinion to beat the peasantry. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: He's not here either!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Respect for each other, I think, should we have here, especially here in this House, namely, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ: On the first day to beat the newly praised ministers and to agree on the competences, that is not a good style. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that it would be a great deal of respect for each other, especially if we not only promote “new governance” in this country, but also promote a new parliamentaryism. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: We will see that at the teacher service law! ...!]] That means: Let us take advantage of the scope offered by this government agreement to advance important, good programmes here in Parliament! Let us work together, we form a strong Parliament! I ask you and offer you the cooperation. We of the ÖVP are definitely ready to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13570	Mr Steinbichler spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13595	Ladies and gentlemen, I must point out what has just been said. I don't think that's a peasant federal event here, where I...
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13610	Mr President, you should know the Rules of Procedure and start with the case to be corrected and then correct them.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13625	... that the reasons for the exclusion were at the ÖVP and the Farmers' Federation, because I have acted in good time against the senseless biogas plants, in good time against the label gap, and I attach importance to the correctness. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13658	Deputies! You know that was a speech contribution and a political positioning, but no actual correction, or if, only in approaches. [[Call the ÖVP: That was nothing!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Mr President, let us do a seminar!]] Next speaker: Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13706	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now coming back to the family subject, although the woman is not here, but I believe that she will be executed, especially since, as I have seen, she probably did not really cooperate in this government programme, because she was only appointed to this office so shortly before the Angelobung. One also sees her interest in it, as it has been shining through absence since the morning. If you are talking about the family allowance, that their increase should really help families from July 2014 on the rounds and now be the nonplusultra or that step-by-step story that we need, then you are very wrong, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, this means a loss for some 700 000 compulsory students. It seems that the government has calculated something wrong, because in the case of these countless jubilation reports it has been forgotten that a number of services are deleted: There's no more child amputation. There's no more school start-up money. There are no more child allowances. The 13th. Family aid shall be deleted from mid-2014. This means a decrease of 2.2 percent for popular students in 2014, which is a loss of just under €50 for the coming year. And that's where they say that's a plus to the families? – For the under-level, for the 15-year-olds, this will mean that there is €35.80 less. And that's a profit? The increase in family allowances is also thin from 2015 onwards. In view of the loss of inflation of family support and family benefits of around 30 percent, the expected increase of 0.3 to 5.7 percent would be an aid to families, which is more likely to be disputed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What about the existing karenz models? – There is still no adjustment of the notice period to the long-term model. There is still no freedom of choice for families so that they can decide who will stay at home when split. When can parents finally decide what they want? The freedom of choice, ladies and gentlemen, remains with this government in this mogel pack and will be forgotten. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We see that in the next five years, nothing will continue to happen for the families. There is still a balding for the families. It has also been recognized in the various speeches: The families are not really concerned about the government parties. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Gisela Worm: Yes!]] Since we have now been sitting here briefly, I would like to give him a very warm welcome if I am now talking about the policy of the displaced, to continue to look at the fact that the restitution laws in the new countries, Croatia and so on, are being respected, especially since, as we have just seen when we visited Croatia, we have more prepared to do so. I would ask you to do something about this and to do something about Beneš decrees and AVNOJ decisions at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13763	The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13785	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there are various points in the economic sector in this government programme, which we consider to be quite clever, and which we welcome. Of course, it makes sense to advertise headquarters in an attractive way, for innovation centres. Of course, we also support the relief of companies, as envisaged, through the reduction of red tape and also a reduction in the additional wage costs. But what is available here are very small and long overdue steps. The great throw, the great challenges, have not even been addressed in this form; in particular, the great issue of how we can strengthen innovation, not even. Of course, a change in the tax system would help to improve. Of course, we need an ecologisation of the tax system and a reduction in the additional wage costs, which is actually significant, which brings relief to small and medium-sized enterprises, for large enterprises. This would be an important contribution to job creation and also an important contribution to environmental protection. In particular, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ – and there have been many rounds in the last legislative period – have been the big issues of solution for corporate financing. The crowd-funding, yes, is noted in the government programme, and it stands in it: in accordance with the unanimously adopted resolution in the National Council, but, Mrs Hakel, this is for crying! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] That's less than ma'am! You know that was a consolation, and now it's written in again! There are really great concerns that there will be nothing going on if you insist on such a thing in this form. That's where it takes a big throw. We need a framework that allows for simple, cost-effective and legal financing of small and medium-sized enterprises and energy transition projects. Of course, from our side there is the offer to contribute to this. Our proposals are on the table, they would mean a really big throw and weaken or eliminate the credit clamp in the current form. Of course, it is also a matter of science and research. And, of course, there is a cry in this Republic when the independent Ministry of Science is abolished with a dash. That is also good and important. Of course, everyone is worried. The science and research area is already a major construction site. We know we have a funding gap of €1.6 billion in the next few years. And what is additional planned? – 300 million €! We need €300 million per year. That's not an announcement! Science and research belong to the focus. And, of course, we need to strengthen basic research, as my colleague and science spokesperson Sigi Maurer mentioned today. Of course, it takes a research funding law and not just the announcement and the new enrollment. They have already generally refused to write in the government programme something about the research rate. It was always about 3.76 percent – but there is nothing more in this government programme. So it's a big construction site that you leave here. [[Abg. Rädler: Talk time!]] And I would like to conclude by inviting all of us today to agree to the request that an independent Ministry of Science and Research in Austria is, of course, necessary and should be preserved in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13827	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13849	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! A few words on the constitutional area and on the modernisation of the State covered by this Coalition Agreement. Modernisation is one of the most important tasks of this Coalition Convention, which we have already begun in the last legislative period, and we have been quite successful in the last legislative period. We have been able to implement the administrative jurisdiction here in Parliament unanimously, with all the subsequent decisions that were necessary. In this context, we have amended more than 120 laws. It was one of the biggest reforms in the constitutional area since 1929. This was really a step towards administrative reform – but he did not find the appropriate attention in the media. There is also the possibility for individuals to go to the Constitutional Court within the framework of legal protection, but legislation should be unconstitutional. That is to say, we have introduced the legislative complaint – this was also decided unanimously. And we are in the process of introducing an information freedom law. This freedom of information law means the adoption of the official secret and will consist of two parts: the right to information of the individual and the obligation of the ministries to provide automatic information. This too will again be a social change in our system, in fact a massive change in the whole system. According to this Convention, the right to vote will also be further personalised. The limits for change are reduced, for the regional constituency list to 9 per cent, the national constituency list to 5 per cent and the federal constituency list to 5 per cent. We are still introducing an initiative today – this is necessary in order to be able to start with the implementation of these measures at once – in relation to EU election law. It is an adaptation to a regulation that has become necessary. Only 5 percent of the preferred votes are to be required for a change in the string. This is one of the first points in this Convention, whose implementation is still under way today: the personalisation of electoral law. There are also huge changes to be expected in the area of data protection. The balance between the protection of personally guaranteed rights against the state and the data protection of the individual and the data gathering institutions will certainly be one of the main tasks and probably again and again in the coming decades social policy. I also see it quite positive that one wants to create an office of the Federal Government in order to manage central competences in order to pool central competences or regulatory competences in order to achieve more efficient financial resources, but also human resources control. On the whole, it can be said that in the area of democratization, in the field of state reform there are quite large chunks. Everyone is again invited to participate in these constitutional standards and to implement this programme with us, which is certainly moving internationally at a very high level.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13903	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13924	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is not right to judge a government program according to whether it has 112 pages, 180 pages or 250 pages, you know that very well. I myself have been in the negotiating team, which has dealt with the issue of growth and rural areas, and each one of these points could be decorated in such a way that an entire side of it becomes. At the end of the legislative period, however, it will not be about how thick this government programme was, but about it – and after that the Austrians will judge us – which has been implemented by what is in it. There has also been a programme of wishes in our area – since more, there even more, elsewhere perhaps a little less – but the responsibility of a government – as well as in a company – to look at what is necessary in order to shape the future, while at the same time looking at the fact that it will not be exceeded with the existing budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All areas have already been debated today. You know, my main topic is tourism, rural areas, and what is always my heart as a practicer is to create framework conditions so that the small-scale economy, including self-marketers in agriculture, can work when work is done. For many of the laws that have arisen in the past, as well as regulations and controls on the protection of workers, but also on the part of the employer, have an impact to a degree that they have become partly disabled. Those who have read the programme carefully know that content contains very important points, such as the reduction of bureaucracy. That's very important. It is particularly important for the self-marketers in agriculture, but it is also important not to have to carry out the same tasks as an industrial enterprise, otherwise the small industry will be broken. It is no longer even possible that in a family business the parents, when they are in retirement, or the children in the vacation, when they are at home by chance and once there is a lot of work, jump in and help a few hours. It's threatened with punishment. All these points and things are included in the government programme. Let's give this government a chance! Let us not condemn everything in the beginning, but let the government show what it can do. It will be and will be measured in this work, and it will be oriented. You can also believe us from the government parties: Not the judgment of the opposition parties is important to us, but we want the Austrians to say after this legislative period: This government has done the best to continue to shape the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e13973	Mr Loacker has made a statement on an actual correction. Let's see if it works this time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14012	Mrs Oberhauser said this morning that I would have demanded 16-year-olds to work in companies free of charge. In fact, however, I have said that for compulsory commercial students who spend a half day in a company for a period of three months once a week – that is, over three months once a week! – a fee is not justified because it does not face the benefit for the company. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14047	Thank you, honourable Member. I think I will make this actual correction in the form of a DVD available to all clubs, it was exemplary – which of course I did not want to comment on the content. [[Abg. Dr. Strolz: Exemplary! We also give courses!]] It was an example of the structure: first of all to mention the facts to be corrected and then to have said what the honourable Member believes at that time. Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14092	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr. Obernosterer, it's right: It doesn't matter how many pages a government program stands! – But you could have made it even easier: A two-liner would have sufficed: Pallawach over the last five years continues. We'll replace a few ministers. - Punctual! Done! This would have been on a sheet of paper, everyone would have understood, and we shouldn't have discussed for so long what you wrote in it, because these are just many headlines, are hot air, nothing else. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The most important question to be addressed in a government programme is: How does the government deal with the people? – But we already know that, and that does not make any good for the future, we have debated it in detail today. [[Abg. May. Gisela Worm: Yes!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Very good!]] [[Abg. May. Gisela Worm: Very, very good!]] However, there is another essential question which has not been addressed at all in the government programme and which has not yet been addressed, namely: How does the government deal with Parliament, i.e. with the institution the government has to control? As Members of this House, we have the duty to exercise these control rights, and we have an essential instrument of support: the Austrian Court of Auditors. And the Court of Auditors, we know that - I think no one will agree with it - is doing excellent basic work with its expertise and its reports. I am surprised that this excellent work has not been included in this government programme, it has actually been completely negated. I am now no longer expressly addressing the 599 proposals with 12 billion savings potential, which have already been mentioned several times. No, there are also the simple reports that we are dealing with here and then we are actually always putting on the records. The Austrian Court of Auditors is the only institution that calculates itself, because the potential it raises by examining the situation of the state-in-state companies, but also in the state itself, is a multiple of what the Court of Auditors is devouring in the budget – that is not much compared to the other highest institutions. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that this very institution, which brings us so much and can bring us even more, is the one that is increasingly restricted and that is becoming increasingly involved in administrative activities. I refer here to the media transparency law, which requires a huge administrative burden in the Court of Auditors, but also to the party law. On the other hand, without criticism, we note that the core task, namely the audit activity of the Court of Auditors, is increasingly in the background. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is unworthy of an independent Member. And I still hope – probably it is pointless to hope if I see the left and right lines, but I still hope and do not give up hope – that the representatives of the government groups will once again be aware of their responsibility as regards the control of the government, and that the Court of Auditors will discuss reports more seriously that we draw lessons from them and also derive and implement appropriate requests from them. Then, an important step would be to simplify Austria's home with the corresponding savings. I also call for – we will certainly discuss this again in the 2014 budget – the corresponding financial resources of the Court of Auditors, since from 2016 onwards, it is lacking in its budget € 3 million, so that it will become almost impossible for it to fulfil its core task, the audit activity.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14173	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14194	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now that it will be exciting in the foreign policy debate, unfortunately the Foreign Minister has left us. I wish him and very much hope that in the future he will not miss exciting debates and even exciting discussions in order to be able to shape active foreign policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Austria's history clearly shows us that foreign policy can be modelled, that even a small country like Austria can play great roles. And that we also have an excellent diplomatic tradition, I believe, is all consciously based, above all, on the principle of constant neutrality and, of course, also based on the worldwide recognition of the role of mediator in the Kreisky era, which ended in 1983. It is important – at that time I was just five years old, the new foreign minister was not yet in the world, that has taken a few more years – to continue this very tradition. All these are prerequisites for making active, self-confident foreign policy – and that would have been the prerequisites five years ago. In the last five years, however, there has been an impression that foreign policy has been hidden somewhere. Economic interests dominated – therefore I am pleased that the Federal Chancellor is now behind me – in Austrian foreign policy. The respect of human rights was almost no subject at all. Certain partner countries, such as Saudi Arabia, have been strongly supported by supporting the establishment of a dialogue centre in Austria, in Vienna, but at the same time, one has not even mentioned the respect of human rights! It just doesn't fit in. Austria has hardly set up self-confident European initiatives. As an example, I would like to mention – I am already missing the SPÖ's call and the chancellor's call – that the European arms industry is writing a 200 billion turnover per year – 200 billion! – while youth unemployment is fed down with a few millions. While youth unemployment is of no importance, the arms industry screams for employment, for exports, for more promotion, and there is no single word on the part of the old government, from the new government, from the Federal Chancellor. This is actually an uplifting, an increase in solidarity, an increase in youth, an increase in the prospectlessness that exists. And if foreign policy and European policy belong together, that has to be done here too. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Direct development co-operation funds have been cut short and have been cut shortest. Here it takes clear steps to get the budget path into the 0.7 percent target. There is a need for great answers to big questions. I'm just afraid that this government won't make it as much as the last one.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14251	The next item is Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14273	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me come to another chapter, namely art and culture! This is where the government programme provides a framework for the next five years, a framework that needs to be filled with life, especially through work in Parliament. In the last GP there were substantial suggestions from Parliament, such as on the topics of public libraries, women in art and culture or film festivals. It is therefore particularly welcome that the Austrian Library Plan has found its way into the government programme. The importance of the creative economy is also pleasing. This occurs at the beginning of the Government Convention in the chapter “Growth and Employment for Austria” and is the right place. Creative economy is an important innovation factor, and especially the almost 400 000 individual companies, so to speak, the new employees in Austria, are the ones we need to take special care of in the next five years. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Sickness benefit keyword: Yes, I did not go far enough, Mr. von der Greene. Tag SVA-Beiträge, Tag Mutterschutz, of course also crowdfunding, Mrs. Lichtenecker, that, we have said, will be fulfilled by the end of March – to mention just a few points here. In the field of art and culture, the government programme also defines five projects: first, the sustainable safeguarding of art and culture in Austria; second, the focus of contemporary art; third, the expansion of cultural mediation; fourth, fair remuneration for creative work; and fifth, the country of art and culture make Austria internationally visible. For reasons of time, let me highlight only two points. In the field of contemporary art, I want to put one of the priorities of my work and highlight the contemporary art and the diversity of its forms of expression. I particularly welcome the expansion of the film and music location and the focus on regional cultural initiatives, literature, music, visual and performing art, film, architecture, building culture and women's promotion. In general, I will be committed to increasing funding in this area, because we need to strengthen and develop the existing funding instruments, a dedicated funding rail for the 22 film festivals in Austria and a strengthening of the literature houses. As a second point, let me take out the area of just reward for creative creation! This is of course an important point for artists. We need to be even more committed to fair and fair remuneration of creative services. A central point is copyright. It is particularly important to take into account the interest of cultural creators and consumers. The aim is to ensure that everyone in the knowledge society of the 21st century is able to do so. ==References====External links== Hie for this it is important to reconcile the Internet with copyright, allowing and promoting new, diverse forms of creative expression – while ensuring a fair remuneration for authors and establishing a strong copyright law. A needs analysis is provided for in the government programme. Yes, I am convinced that this need exists. Similarly, it is necessary to extend artistic activities to mediation and teaching in the area of the "Künstler-Sozialversicherungsfonds" (Künstler-Sozialversicherungsfonds). Federal Minister for Art and Culture! There is much to be done in this area, and I am looking forward to cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14330	The next item is the report by Mr Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14351	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Stöger for having had the pleasure of negotiating with him and 30 other experts on health issues with regard to the government programme. It's good if 30 people discuss, because then there are it is the smallest common denominator – and this is actually a big denominator in the health field. What is it about? – It is always about the same existence of life, the basic question: We want to give everyone a good supply, regardless of age and income. That sounds very banal, but it's a very difficult task. It was only yesterday that someone described to me the accident surgery in Bavaria and the Netherlands – I couldn't believe it either – that: The whole Netherlands has a single polytrauma center. – Polytrauma center is called when a major traffic accident occurs and you break from head to toe liver so about everything, then you have to be supplied with an acute CT, you have to be operated on and so on. – The whole of Holland, a larger country than Austria, has a single centre. We have six centers in the area of Vienna and the surrounding area – Lorenz Böhler et cetera – and they are used up. And in Bavaria, which has three times as many inhabitants as Austria, there are now four polytrauma centers. So my question was: What happens to the seriously ill? – They told me they were flying there with the helicopter. – I asked: What if the helicopter can't fly in the evening? - Well, then the patient just had bad luck. See, this is an example where it becomes clear what supply means. After all, there is a thought behind each of these political actions – and in my opinion this thought is okay – that we have a full supply. As a doctor, no, I can tell you that, I see fates every day that I prefer not to see and where we need to get better. We have also mentioned this: We have said that we need to be much better in child care. In the child rehabilitation, there is part of the current situation, I have to say another shame. There is much to be done in children's psychiatry, as in the children's hospice issue, even in the whole of child care. Secondly, we need to improve prevention. The white bed will be difficult to finance in the future, but we all want to get healthy and not stay in bed forever. The third thing is: Of course, we want to shape the primary supply – which is a bulky concept, has also led to discussions – at home. This will usually be, of course, the home doctor, but this can be, for example, an initial care centre in the urban area. So I think you should be flexible. Overall, I think, we want to do everything so that it doesn't come to a hidden rationalization. This is really a threat in every health care. Whatever will be a task and what both chancellors and vice chancellors have addressed today: that you can reduce the bureaucracy in such a way or not allow it to be overboarded that the performance of the doctors and sisters also comes to the patient – because that does not happen is really a danger in the health care system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14407	The next item is Mr Ddr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14428	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear spectators at the visitor gallery! Do you already know the new motto of the Federal Government? – What you can get today, move it to tomorrow. [[Abg. Heinzl: This is a joke!]] In the light of the government programme, one immediately notices that many measures are to be implemented only in 2016 or later. That doesn't really sound like an ambitious road map, Mr. Federal Chancellor. In the short term, I can point to the tax highlights – I can correct myself: tax “badlights”. ‘Badlight’ number one: Tax-structural reform. According to the government programme, a working group will be set up in the BMF with January 2014 which will have to present the reform path for harmonisation and tax simplification by the end of 2014. According to the government programme, legal implementation is expected by the end of 2015. What prevents you, Mr Finanzminister, from implementing tax reforms immediately, such as the reduction of the tax rate to 25 percent? [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, your predecessor, Mrs Fekter, has already set up a working group on the re-codification of the EStG at the time, and it seems that nothing has been done about it. ‘Badlight’ number two: group taxation. According to the government programme, group taxation is limited spatially to EU, EEA and DBA countries with comprehensive mutual assistance agreements. To this end, we need to know that Austria has concluded double taxation agreements with more than 85 countries and that there is also an official aid agreement with many countries. That's what I'm asking myself: What is the spatial restriction of group taxation, Mr Finanzminister? Here again, the German government’s kneeling in front of the financial sector shows itself. For subsidiaries outside the EU or EEA, group taxation should never be possible – this has cost us hearing amounts since 2005. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As regards ‘Badlight’ number three, which you are so proud of: the harmonisation of the accounting rules for all public budgets. 400 000 companies in Austria are able to report on the basis of uniform rules, but the Federal Government has so far failed to agree with the nine federal states on uniform accounting rules. We may be anxious to see whether the Federal Government will be able to implement this course this time. And do you know, Minister of Finance, what hurts me personally as a tax lawyer in the light of the government programme? – You don’t even know how to write “income tax law”, “social tax” and “noVA” correctly. So maybe look. Once you're in the Tax Code. If you analyze the government program, you really wonder what has been discussed and negotiated for two months now. However, I am now absolutely clear why the population has not been informed about the results of the negotiations as they did in Germany: There have never been reporting results. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By the way, I can still quote the “Salzburger Nachrichten”. The issue in yesterday's edition said that at least two ministers of the old and new government are guaranteed that they will only remain in office because the Chamber or the federal state, where they come from, did not want to take them back under any circumstances. – I congratulate you on Your team, Mr. Federal Chancellor! Second-class executives like to be surrounded by third-class government members.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14496	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14517	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers! Much criticism has been expressed so far, and much legitimate criticism has also been expressed. I would like to start with a praise, yes, with an express praise, that of what this Federal Government did two and a half years ago. [[Call the ÖVP: Oh?]] Two and a half years ago, this federal government surprised us and also us by finally creating an integration state secretariat, a long-standing demand of NGOs, of the Caritas, of the deacony, SOS fellow human beings, of all kinds of human rights activists and of people who have been working in integration for years and decades. The Federal Government celebrated itself with Pomp and Trara at the time and said: This is now a huge step forward, something completely new, we are creating an integration state secretariat! And we have indeed also praised you, we have supported it to this day, because we believe that integration, a cross-sectional matter, has to do with many things and also has a very strong bearing on the future of our society. This has to do with demographics, it has to do with the labour market, it has to do with women, with equal rights, with exploits of all the potential in the country, with education and so on and so on. And now this whole new creature from two and a half years ago is buried in song and soundless. The Secretary of State for Integration is simply dissolved, and integration is disposed of in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And we should also celebrate this as a great appreciation of the issue of integration. Ladies and gentlemen! This is extremely difficult for us because we see that the future theme of integration is treated as Mr. Kurz's personal hobby – which unfortunately is not here again and cannot listen to it at the moment. So it's a personal hobby of a person. That's what he gets under his arm and just takes it to the next ministry. With your permission, I wonder what would have happened if Mr. Kurz had become Minister of Defense. Then one would probably have accommodated integration in the Ministry of Defence. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with greens and NEOS-LIF.]] It can't be that this topic of the future just won't move me, you're not going to move anything to the next place. And I dare the prognosis: If Mr Kurz is not or should not be Foreign Minister, this section will be relocated elsewhere, the subject will be relocated elsewhere, depending on where Mr Kurz is the Minister. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Let's be surprised!]] Not only do I say this with the concerns, but interestingly this also says Professor Fassmann, his sign Chairman of the Expert Council for Integration in the Ministry of the Interior. This expert and expert board has also consulted Mr. Kurz over the last two and a half years. For Fassmann, it is not understandable – quote – “why is something that ultimately moves the domestic and the domestic population to an external office.” And unfortunately, it is already to be predicted that the topic of integration in the foreign office will be foreign body and remain foreign body. There are also some positive points in the government programme, measures that are announced, which we welcome, for example, a federal integration programme for new immigrants and new immigrants – also a long-term demand of the Greens to make integration and living together better. For example, only this measure is subject to the reservation of funding. That is, even the positive things where you have managed to include them in the government program are in the stars. In view of the budget gap, they will most likely not be implemented. In case of positive measures, which are also implemented, you have us at your side. We will, of course, support this. Just as it has happened, with the disposal of the issue into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with the unimplemented measures, that is not enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14570	The next item is the report by Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14592	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Of course, a debate on a government agreement must be focused on content, argue differentiatedly – but still one should stick to the truth. I would like to give an example that really excited me a few minutes ago. Mr Köchl of the Greens, in his speech of initiation, claimed that the word “crowdfunding” or “citizen participation models” in this government agreement is not at all present. A few minutes later, his colleague Ruperta Lichtenecker said of the same party, well, it's already happening, but not enough, and she read only half of a sentence again. The fact is that, on page 16 of the Government Convention, it is clear and clear, on the basis of a resolution adopted unanimously from July 2013 a legal framework for crowdfunding will be drawn up by March 2014. That is to say, what the House called for, despite elections, despite government negotiations, will be implemented within just a three-quarters of a year. Ladies and gentlemen, with all understanding: Yet always stick to the truth! Especially in the environmental field, we have seen the disinformation quite massively. There has already been media criticism of the new environmental concept of the Federal Government at a time when results on this chapter had not yet been reached by the public. Environmental issues were discussed in the election campaign, where the Greens did not have an environmental campaign, and it was said that the Federal Government was not interested in environmental protection. I have made the effort to read very carefully not only in the election campaign, but also during the government negotiations the green environmental programme, also because of the reason for taking part in the government negotiations. I would really like to ask all colleagues to take time over Christmas holidays and read the green environmental programme and the government agreement of the Federal Government 2013/2018 and then to say what is not binding and what is quite concrete. For example, if the Green Programme states that global climate protection is a huge challenge, and the government programme is set as an objective of environmental policy by 2018 to prevent global warming through concrete measures within the 2 degree target. [[Abg. Brosz: How about reading the measures!]] Or: the anti-CFC article in the environmental programme of the Greens. “Atom power plants are still a constant threat to all of us,” of course, no na net. The government programme addresses the active action of the Austrian Federal Government at international level, coupled with concrete measures to include, for example, the prohibition of nuclear promotion in future international trade agreements, that Austria opposes any form of nuclear promotion. I can't find that anywhere in the green environmental programme. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] So you could go through this point by point now. Our approach is as follows: We have a great global responsibility, the topic of nuclear energy, climate protection. We want to protect in Austria against pollutants, preserve nature and the environment, and at the same time see environmental technology as a sustainable economic opportunity. I recommend that everyone read the OECD Environment Report of November this year, also in the newspaper of the Austrian Environmental Roof Association, in which everything is very deciduous and largely positive, from the quality of drinking water and renewable energy to the consumption of resources, waste, air, water conservation. The starting position is a good one, the environmental economy is already implementing €30 billion a year – that is more than Austrian tourism – and in climate protection we will have one more tooth. The proposal in this agreement on labour is to create a climate change pact that will really allow federal and national states to stop climate change in Austrian and global interest, even with international agreements.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14631	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14653	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! There would be a lot to say now – Mrs Windbühler already smiles – but I am coming to speak to the Greens. Together we are strong, the Federal Chancellor has today mentioned in the Government Declaration – after eight hours of debate we see who wants to be strong together. Nearly half of the members of this board are negative to the new Federal Government, and if you look at the emails you get from the television viewers, from those who sit at home and pursue this debate, it is particularly addressed to the process of encountering government members who are new to this bank as the FPÖ has done today. That was really not necessary. No respect! – Yes, I say that very clearly! [[Abg. Gartelgruber: Go, go, go!]] Where are the times when governments or political officials have been given a hundred days to work? - That's all over. That's a question of propriety, that's a question of respect, you make it yourself! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: You speak to it!]] Now to the re-start of the government, which has been referred to so many times and has also been called down to the negative. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: That's why all the demonstrators are already here!]] – Mr Rosenkranz, what do you understand? You're under “Restart”? You have such a narrow view. Everyone has a concern that he has brought into these government negotiations. I can tell you that I have raised some concerns about the communities and I am pleased that there have been claws that you do not even see. Also in the health sector or in the family sector, or: [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: I don't want the Pflock in your eye!]] Insurance contribution in respect of pensions. You could argue positively about this and say that at last something is happening against those pensions in close-to-state establishments that were disproportionately high. Speak positively once! [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Why strike and demonstrate so many people on the street?]] Or: Tell me what happens in family policy! Of course, it is a declaration of intent to increase family support, but there is also – it will come. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: Why do you create the 13th? Family aid?]] I can still remember the last meeting on the topic of huge budget hole – and now all come with demands?- Oh, my God! That's not going to happen. Let's talk about positive things, about the fact that in this government agreement – and I am very glad about it – the government partners are confessing to the families by first putting them into a child rehabilitation facility in Austria – the first! - set up. Today, 4,000 children are taken care of with adults, and we are watching. We will implement such child rehabilitation sites throughout Austria. I have one more wish, I am not satisfied with everything either. I'd like to have this for single parents, too. Some 3,000 single parents in Austria have problems, mental problems because they have problems in marriage, whose children are unbeggared when they are treated in rehas. It needs its own rehabilitation facilities. I have contacted the women's houses in Austria and there will be a joint initiative. I am very confident, Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek, that we will find a solution. We will do so in many other areas. I have already mentioned the communities and the families. Finally, because the red light is already shining, I don't want to say it today, but I just have to say it to the greens: You really are the Bad Bank of NEOS. You are still trying it now by copying it by delivering a “joyful one, ” a“ good one ” message. Mrs Korun, on the basis of what you have offered here as an integration speaker, I must say to you: There has been the State Secretariat for Integration for two and a half years, and you know about the programmes that could be implemented jointly. That was Mr Kurz's merit, you know, during these negotiations. To bring that to a level now, that could be immediately settled in the federal army – so really. What's with the federal army? There is no integration there? There's integration with the police. – That was levelless, that's green, that's Bad Bank!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14774	Mrs Steger has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14797	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! In my first speech, I would have liked to see substantial positive developments and prospects in the field of sports and youth policy in this government programme today, but unfortunately you did not make me happy. There is a separate chapter on sport, and there is also a chapter on youth, but that was it again with the appreciation for these areas. Nor does it help to try to make the need a virtue and to call youth policy a cross-sectional matter. This is, in principle, right, but if one cannot find substantial improvements and changes in the individual areas which form this cross-sectional matter, of course, one suspects that it is therefore called cross-sectional matter, because no one is responsible for it in this area and no one has political responsibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But just this responsible approach would be urgently necessary, because, as you all say in your speeches, the youth is our future. What does the Austrian youth expect from the new government? It is expected to have a solid education: no matter if it is in the field of school, specialist work or universities. That is why I cannot understand how one can come up with the idea to treat the Ministry of Science as a kind of idiosyncrasy in the Ministry of Economic Affairs of Mr Mitterlehner. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] I say that science is a fundamental investment in the future and has therefore deserved the special importance of one's own ministry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I can only call it an increase if the Federal Chancellor stands up in his speech and speaks several times of the importance of research, education and science, but at the same time the Ministry of Science abolishes it. Please don't think the population is so stupid that it doesn't recognize this contradiction! It also recognises the contradiction if the Federal Chancellor wishes FPÖ to take third place and at the same time continues the reform unwillingness of recent years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am telling you that this contradiction is evident to everyone, you, Federal Chancellor, at the latest in five years' time. What else does the youth expect? – It is expected to be more co-determination in politics and society. You have even written it yourself – rightly – into the government programme, but then you finally have to implement direct democracy according to Swiss model – as the FPÖ has been demanding for years – and not this ultralight variant that can be found in the programme. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As an active sportswoman and as a sports politician, I also have to say that I am very disappointed with this programme. It does not mention the urgently necessary and also demanded depoliticization of sport. For years you have maintained a system in which the official counts more than the active sportsman, and the functionaries are – how should it be different? – Of course, all of them from red and black. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] If you are talking about red tape, please also in the area of sports bureaucracy, where a lot of money is being sent away, which the active athlete would urgently need in top-level sports and in wide-ranging sports. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] I would also like to say one thing: There are reasonable performances in sports only if there are reasonable sports venues in Austria. I have personally experienced as a member of a sports team that my team has not been able to participate in the European Cup for years because there is no suitable and financially viable hall in Austria. But these halls cannot be built just because for the time being it is in a government program that such a thing is desired, but only when the funds are finally used rationally – where they are needed. In summary, this government programme is to be said: In sports policy you have been in the same position for years, and your youth policy is, in short, quite old.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14893	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14915	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government! High house! How credible is this government, how credible is the government programme? – Three examples from the chapter Finance. Mrs Finanzminister out of office, you have referred to the most faithful presentation of the financial situation and have said that you will recommend it to the countries and communities. – That’s good, but you, Mrs. Finanzminister out of service, say that you have shownly violated the principle enshrined in the Constitution in the Federal Financial Framework Act, which I am very surprised about. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not right!]] This is also the reason why we brought a ministerial note against you, Mrs. Finanzminister out of office, at the last special meeting and very well justified this approach there. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not true!]] - That's the way it is. I can explain it to you once again, but you don't want to understand. You have completely misinformed us here in the House in terms of banks and have violated Article 51 (8) of the Federal Constitution! Come on, Basta. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Haven't you read it?]] Second point: This government has written on its flags, against tax fraud, against tax avoidance, against tax evasion to do something substantial. At the same time, however, I read in the same chapter – and you, Mrs Finanzminister out of service again – that the blockade of automatic information on interest income related to the interest rate directive should continue to be maintained. That's what I'm asking myself: I'm kind of a sneaker, or who's there? Either we want to do something against tax fraud, but we also need to support the EU in this matter, or we continue to stick to its blockade and then make it absolutely clear which side is on that side, which is the protection patterns of tax evasions in millions – and this is set out in this programme. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Third point: Distribution justice is lacking to the full in this government agreement. The reduction in the limit tax rate in the wage tax to 25 percent will be postponed to the long-term bank. If one does not want to slaughter sacred cows such as the taxation of wealth, then one will never get there, then one will not be able to achieve this in this legislative period. But if you want the extremely uneven assets in this country to contribute to the reduction of lower and lower incomes, you can do so. It is not a problem at all to make the necessary funds available for counter-financing. Two figures to conclude: The highest percentage of households in the household owns €470 billion of assets, which is 47 percent of the total assets. The bottom 50 percent have just 4 percent of the total assets. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e14990	Mr Krist is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15011	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I would like to refer briefly to the sports chapter in the government programme. I should like to thank the Minister for Sport for his input. We were on both sides of the ÖVP and SPÖ in advance – I am speaking for sports now – very well involved, we were invited to bring in our ideas. We have brought ourselves in very well and, as I believe, also a good sign, a clear trace in the program. We have included in the government programme a five-point programme for more movement of our children. The day-to-day gym or daily movement unit, as you would like to call it, was a big action because it is simply important to start in kindergarten with it, because it is important to continue this consistently in school, because it is important to increase the quality in teacher training as regards sport, because it is important to involve organized sports more in school operations, and because it is simply important to highlight the relationship between movement, sport and health. A second focus is the view of performance and top-notch sports. I do not want to do this now with all the unmade or yet done medals at the various major events around the world, fact is, there has been a sports venue master plan missing for many years. This is now anchored, and we will deal with it as well as with the development of talent-research programmes, so that our umbrella and professional associations, especially the professional associations, who are particularly interested in top and performance sports, will also receive young people again. We have a very high level of competence in the orientation of major events. This too we will maintain and expand in the future. It is quite important to achieve better coordination between the federal government and countries. We know what the federal government is spending on sports, but we have no idea what is being spent in the federal states. The federal states have so far been very reluctant in their information. If so, you should do this together when it comes to sports venues or larger tasks in Austria. We also need greater involvement of organized sports and sports science institutions. We have great federal sports academies with excellent training, and this has to be more taken into account throughout the sport. We intend to make the health system more of a partner in sports, to invite social security providers, to make themselves available as a partner, and Intensification of operational sport, the creation, strengthening and living of the National Action Plan for Movement as a total Austrian plan. We want to strengthen the involvement of the public space for movement activities. Movement and sport are not always a question of the gym or existing sports facilities. We need – the Minister of Health is present – also the Minister of Health as a strong partner in sports, because sport and health are necessarily combined. It also needs to improve the structures, tasks and framework conditions for sports, for example with a home of sports, for example by strengthening women's and girls' sports, because we all know that most girls are lost in sports, especially in teens. It also needs more fair play in sports, currently the fight against betting fraud. In the world, between 400 and 700 manipulated football games take place in one year; 100 manipulated football games result in the entire Austrian sports budget of the federal government. The only thing that shows us is how important it is to activate a network – bookmaker association, sports associations, lotteries, sports policy – and fast action is essential! Ladies and gentlemen! All real experts know how important the daily sport that is daily exercise is. More than 40 percent of Austrians do not do any movement and sport. The consequences for the health system are – I say so – dramatic, so we have to work together – sport, education, health – and actively implement the government programme. In today’s issue of “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”, I read: The off for winter sports? The corruption attorney's office is interested in any free tickets that teachers get when they organize a winter sports week. – So if we don’t worry otherwise – in sport we have enough to do anyway, and I invite everyone to participate!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15078	Mr Neubauer. — (NL) Mr President, the next item is the report by Mr Neubauer. [[Call the ÖVP: Is no longer there!]] - Excuse me! He's still on the list with me. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15107	Mrs. National Council President! High house! Mr Minister and Mrs Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers! Yes, government agreement, hmm Austria has failed to treat the disability system accordingly. Why? – As part of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities, a state examination has been carried out, and the Commission has noticed that Austria has not followed very, very many points. Which points do I mean? – This UN Commission has applied homework to Austria, and the homework should be included in the government agreement by 2018. I also expected this, but I didn't find it. For example, disaster protection specifically with regard to disabled people: What if flood is? What's going on? What measures should be taken? - I don't think so. For example, institutionalization: It was criticized that Austria has so many large homes. We should have the goal that disabled people live and live in smaller housing units. – I do not find this point in the government agreement either. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Read!]] Education is the most important concern at all. The aim is that disabled and non-inhibited people learn together, from kindergarten to university. The UN Convention requires an inclusive roadmap that as many children as possible learn together. – I do not find that in the government agreement either. Disability policy should become the main issue, Mr. Bundeskanzler. The UN Commission has asked why the Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible for the disabled. Disability policy is a cross-sectional matter. This means that there should be no focus only on social policy. So disability policy is to be really up-to-date, and I expect you to see the Federal Chancellery take over the disability issues, so to speak, and to carry out the coordination and implementation of the UN Convention. I also expect you, Federal Chancellor, to take into account people with disabilities in your speeches that you are also talking about their concerns so that disabled people feel they are taking their concerns seriously. Why am I talking about it? – Disability policy should really get a higher priority. Austria has signed the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, so Austria has committed itself to comply with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15147	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15168	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators at home! Mrs Jarmer! I would really like to stress that I almost think you haven't read the government programme yet, otherwise you would simply not have been able to make these allegations that you have now made. If you had read the government programme, Mrs Jarmer, you would have seen that 100 percent of this government programme has been taken into account that disability policy is a cross-cutting matter. Disabled people are mentioned in the chapters People with Disabilities and Social Affairs, which is true, but also in the areas of family policy, transport and infrastructure, education – which is so important to all of us together – in addition to the area of living in the field of sport and justice and civil law. – I think that the Federal Government has clearly demonstrated that disability policy is very much a cross-sectional matter, Mrs Jarmer. The chapter on People with Disabilities explicitly refers to the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities and points to the implementation of the National Action Plan for People with Disabilities – in the chapter People with Disabilities. In my opinion, this implementation cannot at all be included in a government programme. I am very happy that the NAP has been created in the light of many people themselves - you all know, all of you know - and that the implementation of the NAP by a group with People affected are accompanied and looked at whether the NAP is actually being implemented. In addition, the chapter on people with disabilities – and I do not know why you have now said that this has not been taken into account – is clearly in the government programme: "In order to enable self-determined life within the meaning of the UN Convention, large institutions are to be dismantled and alternative support services developed. Personal assistance is to be further expanded and “a uniform national harmonisation of the country’s performance” is to be carried out across the country. This is a clear commitment to the implementation of the UN Convention, a clear commitment to de-institutionalization, as you have referred to, in order to enable self-determination – which is so important to people with disabilities! Self-determination, ladies and gentlemen, is a comprehensive programme. It's also just that disabled people can decide for themselves when they watch television when they come home when they call. This is also self-determination, and this, of course, is particularly related to the question of living – living alone or living in support. And that is exactly what is enshrined in the government programme. It is also supported that work should become an even greater focus in the coming years, and it is clearly stated that the promotion of employment relations in the first labour market should be pursued in a sustainable way – “including employment” – is to be read in the government programme. There will also be a hundred percent of resources for this because, as I have experienced by Mr Hundstorfer in recent years, he is very much concerned about disability policy. In the field of education, Mrs Jarmer, the government programme is to be read – also agreed with our new woman Minister of Education, who comes himself from this sector, if I may say so; once she was a teacher at a special school, a school type that we no longer want in a few years: “Development of integration classes and further development of inclusive education.” I think these are many, many confessions of the government, and it is now up to all of us, ladies and gentlemen – and I think this is already happening all day, with all the reports I have heard today – that we are living up to this government programme together. Of course, this programme is a will demonstration, and projects are to be implemented over the next five years – we have five years to do so. The fact that both parties – the SPÖ and the ÖVP – have to find themselves in this government programme is also clear because no party has the absolute majority. We, all representatives of all parties, can implement this programme together for the next five years. I'm ready. I am convinced that this programme is a solid basis that will contribute to Austria's continuing importance in the European context, that it will continue to support social cohesion in our country and ensure solidarity, especially in the coming years. I am looking forward to working with you all, ladies and gentlemen, and also with all the members of the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15243	Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15265	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! You have, ladies and gentlemen, correctly said that two partners have to find themselves. But I'm asking: Does the Austrian population find itself in this programme? [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Of course, Mr Colleague!]] It's all about her. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am absolutely clear that the assessment of a work programme is always critical, but it always consists of hope. But I have to say: The criticism of the opposition is justified, but the hope is bad because with all tolerance: How do you explain – or how do we deal with it – the poverty scarves, the number of 1.2 million people at risk of poverty in Austria? Is there an answer in this programme? – I say: No, no, no, In Austria, more and more people will continue to need support, which will ultimately be entertained by people who are not much better. Dear Government! How do you deal with the dictatorship and privileges of banks and corporations? That would be something I would have liked to hear. Or: How do you deal with small and medium-sized enterprises and small-scale agriculture, not in headlines, but in detail knowledge? How do you deal with the self-employed? – The fact is that the largest population group will continue to have the least rights, but at the same time have to cope with most of the loads. Where in this work programme, I ask you, has it been possible to tackle structural social-moral problems or to put visionary headliners? When we talk about childcare places today, this is a very good thing – thank you! – but we are also talking about how we are going to become lord of the declining number of births! Where are the approaches? What do we do in reducing the produced generation conflicts, where we know that the elderly have more and more to support the grandchildren? How do we deal with education and culture when we know that this is linked to the civil service today? That means: Grill pepper, Biedermeiertum – quite the same; Mr Hofrat Grillparzer also signed in the court office at the time. Last: Austria has always been a bridge of international politics, foreign policy, as a neutral state. Where is the sound or vision of the future years? I would like at least to see human rights abuses in the European environment, such as the Beneš decrees, under attack, or that the Federal Government – as the five-party request here in Parliament in 2012 called for – should be committed to the constitutional recognition of the Slovenians vehement. In conclusion, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15321	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15380	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15401	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! We have now discussed your work programme for a few hours. What are the main criticisms of the opposition, what has come over and over again? [[Call the ÖVP: What a positive thing!]] I would like to remind you here once again of this bad star under which you have begun to form this new government. The debate on the so-called budget hole was a single chuzpe, because you, ladies and gentlemen, should have done one thing if You want a new policy: recognize and perceive that you simply deceived voters, did not tell the truth. You should have done so at the beginning of this period of government. You missed it. You didn't make this admission, Federal Chancellor. Let's look at the contents of your program! There are many, many headings, many work instructions, Mrs Colleague, and few specific targets. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Many good measures!]] The latter, however, was the case! A policy can only be verified if there are clear targets. Headings – yes, no question, one example: Master plan for rural areas, but not the cornerstones of this plan. Already in January, a partnership agreement with the European Union will be signed, Mr. Federal Chancellor, in your place of business lies the responsibility for Austrian regional policy. At least one, two sentences or some cornerstones of the Austrian strategy would have been included in the programme. You missed it, but it's already in the end of January, so it looks like that. Or also: ‘Introduce taxes and create more tax justice’. – So this headline sounds wonderful, that would be signed by everyone, but: What are the measures? Where, then, are the real, real measures that are far-reaching? – A few tax sugars have just been abolished, but no real policy beyond a neoliberal policy has been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen! The standstill on future topics such as education, such as climate and energy policy is so blatant, and above all, it is a symbol against any future policy when a minister such as daughters who has been successful, at least what is public perception, has to go. You have also not once praised the speech of the Vice-Cancellor, I fully understand you, completely right. Finally, I would like to quote what an old Social Democratic has to say on this subject, I quote here Hannes Androsch from yesterday's "standard": “In a rather terrifying way, a forgetful attitude towards the future with the abolition of the Ministry of Science () becomes clear.” He summarises the following: The “present abolition is a disturbing message of the past. ” – That’s reality! We Greens do not want a past message, we want future concepts, therefore: Support Please submit our request for the establishment and establishment of an independent and independent science ministry! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15454	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15475	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! High house! Yes, the Government Convention is unsatisfying in many areas – we have heard it today – and questions remain open, and questions are not answered. Burdens stand at once, discharges – if they come at all – are pushed out by years. With direct democracy, ladies and gentlemen, it is not far from this government agreement either. Direct democracy is almost a stepchild – I call it that. What about the control rights? What has become of the promises made by all the parliamentary parties, especially by the now ruling parties Red and Black, regarding the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law? At the time, in the course of the ESM debate, an agreement was reached with the Greens that, if they give their agreement to the Constitutional Law, this minority right would be granted and an investigation committee could also be convened by opposition parties. What happened? – Nothing has happened, ladies and gentlemen, and this is not exactly a sign of trust, does not strengthen Their credibility and, above all, the credibility of the government parties towards the opposition. Power needs control, that's good and right, but what happens if you don't want control and if you overcrowd the one who's supposed to control it with tasks, but don't raise the resources? This is the case with the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen. You all know that we have decided on this, and it is also good and right that the Court of Auditors has been given more tasks, namely, audits relating to the Media Transparency Act, the examination of party donations, audits relating to state finances, the Stability Pact and the budgetary reform. The Court of Auditors has also received these tasks, alone, and the funds have been cut short. The Court of Auditors lacks €3 million by 2016, and savings of €5.6 million have also been made in the Court of Auditors, which are used up, and €3 million is missing. If one can exercise faith in the Federal Financial Framework Act 2014 to 2017, the Court of Auditors says that it lacks €7 million. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors can no longer fulfil its core tasks, and that, I believe, is really not tolerable for democracy, and we all have to work on it and think that we also meet the Court of Auditors' demand to increase these funds! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Furthermore, the government programme draws on the evaluation and implementation of working groups like a red thread. Interestingly, it is also being evaluated in areas where there are already completed concepts where there are already concepts. Evaluation seems to want to compensate for the lack of political will, ladies and gentlemen. I should also like to quote the former President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, who has recently said that there has not been any search of the funding jungle that this has been missed. Looking at the funding of federal, state and local authorities, he sees a savings potential of €5 billion, ladies and gentlemen of the government. There you could have taken a bond, and there you could have done something immediately before burdening the population again and asking for the cash desk. [[In the case of the Stronach team and the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] I would also like to take a brief look at the Ministry of Women, which is now housed in the Ministry of Education. I think it would have been more useful after we now have our own family ministry – which I very much welcome – if we had given women's evenings to the family ministry, because there would also be the opportunity to treat women and men equally. Family consists of women, men and children, and I think that would have been important and useful. If you look at the achievements of the Minister for Women and if you let the last five years of revue happen, after what happened? And, dear Gisela Worm: I have followed your speech closely today, and if you only focus on expanding the advisory and support services and on ensuring that the salary shears are finally closed, and on ensuring that the social partners and trade unions are involved. [[Abg. May. Gisela Worm: Forget violence!]] What happened in the last five years? – So I feel today also in many areas reminds me of the 2008 Declaration of Government, where something has not really gone on. Another example, where nothing has gone on, especially in the women's sector: In 2008, the Government Convention decided that the emergency home for those affected by forced marriage should be established. When did she come? Five years later! In the summer of this year, this emergency apartment, 2013, was finally put into operation. [[Abg. May. Gisela Worm: Thank God!]] – Yes, thank God, but does it require an own ministry that takes five years to set up an emergency apartment? [[Abg. May. Gisela Worm: You forgot about violence! Protection of violence!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think this makes any sense, and with this, I believe, one cannot reap laurels either. Finally, I would like to say something salopp: Nothing is fixed in this government agreement! Fix is only that there is a ban on red and black. That is, neither in committee nor in plenary can red and black prevail, even as regards the enforcement of a referendum against the will of the partner. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is too little to reform Austria in a sustainable way and to lead the Austrians, the children, to a good future. That's, I think, too poor. [[Abg. May. Gisela Worm: Step by Step!]] However, we will be fully involved in working well, and I hope that you will also include our proposals and include them in your work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15583	Before I now give the last speaker the floor, I would first like to draw attention to the fact that the murmuring in this room overtones almost everything else, and yet I hear telephone noise constantly. You know that in this room the phone call is strictly forbidden and would also be ordered. So, my request to stick to it! [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Is the ringing or the calling?- Oh, my God!]] As far as employees are concerned, they would have to leave the hall under this condition – only for the memory of all. Mr Dr Franz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15617	High house! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like We have heard in the election campaign of the “unbundling of the economy”. What we have heard and read in the government program today is the detachment of phrase scrapping. I have not really been able to read out anything consistent for my part, and I think most of you are secretly doing so. [[Abg. Brosz: Read the “profile”!]] Furthermore, in the election campaign we have heard from the “safe hand” that will control Austria. I feel it after the government programme has been implemented, so that the standstill can be managed safely. There are no innovations. There are no visions. There are no options for the Austrian citizen except for small things that you might be able to do so on the edge. Overall, the programme is suitable for creating a certain depression in the public despite all the beautiful speeches. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] From my point of view, the government does not trust. I believe that there is a great and truly pervasive country, which is very bad, because in its last period of government, the two parties would have five years to risk something new together for Austria. Unfortunately, this is not happening, because the large pieces, such as the pension reform, are a truly consistent pension reform, as the Nordic countries have long proposed, that is not even addressed. We are already happy if we stay five years below the statutory retirement age. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I believe to be an amalgamation of the younger citizens in this country. That's not all right. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] If you look at Denmark, you can see the following: In Denmark, the pension age is about to begin 67 years. The Federal Republic of Germany, our close northern neighbor, begins to debate and deal with the 67 years in concrete terms. Again to Denmark: They even plan pension age scenarios of 74 years in the next 20 to 25 years in the long term, that is in real and real discussion. In Austria you are looking forward to over 60 years. From my point of view, this is an insult to the disciples. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Nachbaur.]] Health care: We need to know that these two factors – health care and pension systems – consume one third of the total budget. There is just the courage left aside, one manages the standstill. One dares not have visionary discussions, not even a debate will open. It is immediately covered: Are we glad, we may be able to do one and a half years now! This is the largest extension of the actual working time ever in this country. These are possibilities, options, that might come, maybe not. No one dares sit down and listen to the pension experts we have piled up in this country – they beat their hands together, you know them all: this is Professor Marin, Professor Öhlinger, et cetera, there are a whole series of well-informed, serious and totally unsuspecting people who deal with it – because they all say: It can't go on like this! We've heard today, it'll continue like this. Ladies and gentlemen, I find this very sad! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15675	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues on the maintenance of a Federal Ministry of Science and Research. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – It does not find the majority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Sad!]] [[Members of NEOS-LIF keep signs with different inscriptions up to date, including “Knowledge creates freedom”.]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues on hearing for new members of the government. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Nachbaur, colleagues, on 'Constitutional debt brakes and the limitation of the tax and tax rate'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Schieder, Dr. Lopatka, colleagues on support and implementation of the government programme. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. (E 2.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Sigrid Maurer, colleagues on the maintenance of the Ministry of Science. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, this vote must also be taken. Therefore, I shall proceed as follows: The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion tabled by Mr Maurer, Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to vote in favour of the vote on the motion for a resolution. Please also carefully ensure that you only take one vote. This applies primarily – and please pay attention – to the new ones. It has always happened in the past that not one, but two ballots have been thrown into the urn. Therefore, please be careful to have only one in hand! I now ask Mr Zanger, as a writer, to begin the call for name; Mr Buchmayr will replace him later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15782	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e15820	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 173; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 80, No votes: 93. Mrs Maurer's request is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Aslan; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz, Brunner; Darmann, Dietrich, Doppler; Franz, Fuchs; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek; Hable, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Hauser, Höbart, Hübner; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Lintl, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Rebaur Kathrin, Neubauer Werner; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pok, Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter, Rossmann; Schatte, Schellenbacher, Schenk, Scherak, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache, Strolz; Themessl, daughters; Vavrik, Vetter, Vilimsky; Walser, Refuserstorfer, Willi, Windbühler-Sushill, Worm Peter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Antoni, Aubauer; Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Mayer, muchich, muttons; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rudas; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tamandl, By; sub-railers; Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e16011	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Albert Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues, on the abolition of the law of the Minister of Justice against the Public Prosecutor's Office. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. I therefore proceed in the same way as just now. I am saving myself the replay of the statement and only draw attention to the fact that those Members who vote in favour of Mr Steinhauser's request have to vote in favour of 'Yes' and those who oppose 'No' vote. Please also note that you do not use two polls! I now ask Mr Zanger to start by calling for a name. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e16071	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will again carry out the polling of votes under the supervision of the authors. I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e16109	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the results of the vote. Members cast: 171; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 42, No votes: 129. [[See correction by President Head S. 239.]] Mr Steinhauser's motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. Here again, the names of the Members will be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Aslan; Brosz, Brunner; Dietrich; Franz; Glavischig-Piesczek; Hable, Hagen; Jarmer; cook, kogler, korun; Lightenecker, Lintl, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Moser, Mückstein, Musiol; Rebaur Kathrin; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Rossmann; Treasure, Gift, Scherak, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strolz; Vavrik, Vetter; Walser, refuser, Willi, Windbüchler-Sushill; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Antoni, Aubauer; Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Belakovich-Jenewein, Berlakovich, Bösch, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Darmann, Diesner-Wais, Doppler, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hauser, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Höbart, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg, Hübner; Jank, Jannach, Jarolim; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Katzian, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lausch, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Mayer, miller, muchich, millberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer Werner; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Podgorschek, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Smoking John, Smoking Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter, Rudas; Schellenbacher, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmid Gerhard, Schmangl, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Stefan, Steger, Steinacker, Strache, Strasser; Tamandl, Themessl, Girls, By; sub-railers; Vilimsky, Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela, Worm Peter; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e16306	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Karlsböck, colleagues on FPÖ-10 on the plan for Austria's universities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hübner, ladies and gentlemen, on Austria's exit from the EURATOM Treaty. Whoever gives his consent here, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Riemer, colleagues and colleagues on the recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia. Whoever gives the consent, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[18:09:17]] 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1d.b._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Servants Act 1948, the Federal Teachers' Teaching Obligation Act, the Land Teachers' Service Law, the State Contracting Law 1966, the Land and Forestry Law on State Teachers' Service, the Land and Forestry Law on State Contracting Teachers' People's Law, and the Teaching Practice Act is repealed (Service Law Novelle 2013 – Educational Service) (6 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 57/A(E) by Dr Harald Walser, colleagues on the right to provide services for educators (7 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e16391	We come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e16418	Madam President. Federal Minister! I think I might see the Federal Minister for Education at this point. But it is now obviously enough with the officials. We are in an hour of today's day where we can say: Under the shadow of this declaration of government, teacher service law is now being won over. That's all you can say. It's a "perfect" choreography that was set around this time. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We are also in a time when one has already seen one: The last Court of Auditors report, which reported on the chaos of the New Secondary School, may already assess which sharding heaps were made when ideological education policy took place here: too expensive, too little efficient, and above all no scientific support, but PR measures by €4 million. This is a social-democratic education policy! And at the same time, the AHS starves out. The next attack on the quality of our education system is to take place today. What is being done here is indeed a crime against the future of our children and our young people! [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: This is incredible!]] Even if you, Mrs. Minister, say it's incredible: Faith It's just me! I think you are the personalized implementation of the book by Konrad Paul Liessmann: ‘Theory of Uneducatedness’. They are the practical example. We are at a time when teachers and government are obviously swinging up each other. There would have to be thinking if the “old” teachers who do not even concern this new right of service – under quotation marks – so massively ascend to the barricades! You might think: Well, that's all about all those who teach after us and come after us, it could be us. - No, that's not what it's all about. One group or two groups will be completely forgotten in this discussion. The most important thing for which the education system is: They are the children, the young people, the students and their parents. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that these are almost also closed against this new teacher's right has not been discussed by the media at all, probably with good reason. What are the problems? – It is an effective deterioration of the care conditions if teachers need to teach from 50 to 100, even from 100 to 200 students in evening schools due to the hourly quota that is now to take place. One should say that the care ratio produced by reducing the maximum number of students would be an improvement! The teachers themselves would like to have more time for their teaching opposition, but in reality there will be more students, there will no longer be time for the individual student. The subject-specific teaching – where the Minister of the Interior was so proud that special officials are assigned to the police – is also eroded, because teachers who do not have anything to do with the subject can now learn about a restriction. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: This is the current legal situation!]] Well, after half a year or a year, teachers are asked if they want to. That is what I am looking at with the young teachers who have fixed-term contracts, whether one trusts or not. The question of training: Of course, master quality is a quality requirement in training, which has been decided. But now you can already start as a Bachelor and then have to study next to the Master during the full teaching obligation. The University Conference is right to say: Either this is, if it's a proper study, a master's degree, not next to this occupational burden, or the master's degree is worth nothing more. That is why our demand has actually been: not only an independent science ministry, but at all an educational ministry, where teaching and science are together under one roof, so that this can happen in a cast. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, what does not come: It is always spoken of by so-called support staff. It's missing. There we are miles from what is always praised, from the praised countries of Scandinavia. We are even miles away from a status that Turkey would have. So there's a lot to be done here. Finally, of course, a commitment to the long-form gymnasium! What happens here is an attack on the general education end. And in the end – that is also important – we also have an education system in Austria, namely, the training at different levels. But here, too, the qualities that these school types had in Austria are clearly at risk, because the qualified practitioners can no longer come. I therefore propose, also for reasons of time, a motion for a resolution which presupposes the essential elements of the free education system: In order to implement a modern FPÖ education concept for Austria's schools, the Federal Government is invited to forward appropriate government documents to the National Council as far as possible. This is a motion for a resolution by me, ladies and gentlemen. One thing must also be noted: in the truest sense of the word in this government concept and in this so-called work programme, the promotion of talent is small. This is evident from the fact that in the goal of “covering and promoting all talents and gifts, ” the word “promoting ” is written in small letters. This would be a spelling mistake in the school paper.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e16505	Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz, I have to say, except that you did not actually make this request properly, because you did not read it. But since the Stenographical Protocol is as generous as I am, I note that the request will be included in the deliberations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e16618	I'm holding this for everyone else. Applications must be properly submitted, i.e. read. If they are not to be read on the basis of length, I ask for your own request in accordance with § 53, and you can bring them to distribution. This really needs to be carried out very thoroughly and with great care in the future, even in the interests of a clean vote at the end. Next, Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e16646	Thank you, Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, all of us have indeed received a lot of emails, which have partly been nailed with content, as the colleague Rosenkranz has now explained. As far as factual accuracy is concerned, you have to consider it. I only wonder that those who actually demand a higher teaching obligation, as they are inside the government's proposal, and those who demand a higher presence of teachers in school, as they are in the proposal, obviously want to vote against this law today. Of course, we know that if you press the reset keys and put up the school completely, you could do it differently. But we know for ourselves that we have to go and go this weary path of small steps. That's what we've done in recent years. We made a decisive change this July, with the new educational education: that we want to train everyone – and that is the crucial point – at master level in the future. All, whether they're school teachers, Central or primary school teachers, AHS, secondary levels 1 or 2 teachers, all should be trained in a master's degree. And for everyone – I emphasize: for everyone! – the training will be improved and, if you want to see it in time, will be extended with a clear catalogue of competence, with which the cream de la cream of those education experts and scientists have really discussed. What we have decided, this can be seen! Now it is about what we have decided together and where at least in terms of content all the political groups have been involved: that everyone should receive the same training that they should also have the same payment. – Now, of course, there are different approaches, I know. It's difficult! To give an example: So far, if a teacher of an AHS undergraduate had to teach only 17 hours for the same age group, namely the 10- to 14-year-old, apparently even the better he taught, and this with a so-called even better education, because he did the Magister and attended a university, at the same time those teachers who taught the same age group, including the 10- to 14-year-olds, who were supposed to be even a little difficult or problematic students, because the proportion of migrants was higher, because more students were among them who did not succeed – for whatever reason – to come to the AHS, five hours more work and got less paid for it! With the same age group! With regard to the fact that everyone will now have the same training, I know, there have been e-mails in which it was said: How do you get everyone to call themselves professor now when they have the master? It can't be! – So that’s right, I think, the secondmost in the example. You can also see that a bit of a stand-dark is with you. But that you have to compensate for this in a new conception, if everyone has a master-quality education, that then the payment should be similar or comparable, that is, I think, clear. That's why you tried. For all the other measures that have now been mentioned, such as an improved job situation for teachers, there is a separate motion for a resolution, with the possibility of creating improved other forms. They were all discussed in advance, up to the seasonal model for which there is also a committee. So everything you could do was done. It has also been ensured that in the case of secondary level 2, which concerns most of the changes, the basic salary is increased only from €2 200 to €2 400, while in the case of compulsory school teachers it is an increase of €2 000 to €2 400, so that all have the same starting point. A new regulation has now been adopted, including a supplementary proposal, amendment amendment that we have decided on in the Committee, that compulsory teachers with additional activities can also come down to 20 hours a week. So from my point of view, one has come up with an important step. It is crucial that we now also have the courage to go this way. And you must not forget: It does not concern anyone who is in service now, so it has a valid contract. It does not concern anyone if he does not want to enter the profession the next five years after the old training. He can also opt out whether he wants to move into the new model or not. Only those who are trained in accordance with the new training concept decided by us will be employed in accordance with this new service law, which we want to accompany and observe in these five years, as well as in the motion for a resolution. And as we all know, these things are not ground in stone. But now that we have decided on a new training concept, we also decide on a right of service at the same time, so that those who then enter the profession actually know what they are, that is, I think, only right and cheap. That is why it would be good, ladies and gentlemen, and the right way – I am also involved with the opposition proposals – and it must and will also develop to ensure that school needs more school autonomy. That's no doubt. But we currently have our school system, and everyone who also knows a little internally – you know yourself, Mr. Strolz, your sister is a district school inspector, you know what everyday life is – knows that it would be a complete exaggeration to say now that we release all schools into freedom, into autonomy. But the way has to go – there I am with you – and we should go there together. I mean, this new educational training, which we have decided to have this new right of service, which we decide today, is an approach in this direction. We should go this way. And I realize that school is also moving continuously. It will also be necessary to change the right of service and the right of remuneration on a regular basis. But to delay and postpone that again, I would think completely wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e16709	I call Mr Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e16730	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! What we should decide together today – because it would be urgently necessary for us to engage in joint activities in the field of education and to have a national etiquette in order to bring our system forward – the opposition parties have brought about. But not only the opposition parties, because we reached agreement yesterday at a round table with the leading representatives of the trade union, with the leading representatives of the parent associations, with the federal school speaker or the federal school speaker. It would be possible. The Creme de la Creme, which supposedly approved the teacher training new and the teacher's law, has broken this draft in the committee. Not even the representative of the ÖVP left a good hair there on this draft, but damned him in Bausch and Arch. [[Abg. Mayer: This is not the one I meant!]] – Yes, I do not know, then please nominate experts in the committee who at least represent your opinion. But we even voted against this right of service with the experts in committee, and, unfortunately, some of the representatives of social democracy do not even take part in such meetings. I think that's a shame, and that certainly doesn't lead us any further. We Greens have therefore taken the initiative. I invited everyone in Parliament to go along. We have made it possible for us to present today an amendment to all the opposition parties which I, Madam President, now wish to make properly. According to § 53, I point out that he has been distributed in the house due to the length and that I am now explaining him in basics. The proposal that we are presenting here is essential, for example, the involvement of elementary pedagogists. This is urgently necessary. Every expert and expert proves this, say again and again: Elementary educators need to be trained better. – In this draft: zero. We want equivalent tertiary training for all educators. We want to make the same payment. We want – and this very point has been confirmed by all experts – an annual working time model. What we decide here is a model from the middle of the 20th century. ==References====External links== ==References== We need a service right that includes all activities of educators and educators. This is far more than just standing in class, correcting and preparing the hour. These are parent talks, that's advice for the children, that's project lessons and so on. There are a large number of activities that are unfortunately not covered here. We need a flexible classification of teachers at schools. All of this we would have in our amendment proposal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Its proposal was annihilated in the Constitutional Committee, even by the experts of the ÖVP. With our proposal, we come out of this subject system, out of this Metternich’s system, which we still have in Austria in school, where teachers must do what is arranged from above, where we have the idea that you click at the minor square and then something happens to the schools that changes. But that's not how it is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Minister, I am looking forward to you changing this in the future and giving schools real autonomy so that you can decide what to do where to do and what to do on the ground. The work of teachers is complex. We want an independent working time study. Please, that is urgently necessary! On the basis of this, you can then decide on a service right, with a specified annual working time. I'm going out of these 1,776 hours. We can build on the law of duty school teachers and compulsory school teachers. That is where we take a clear step back, unfortunately, God! We already have a better model, and you are now making without need a model that develops back. And that's why I ask – I have to agree: Why now? Why are we going through this in a situation where we have five years? Today, they are adopting a law that must enter into force in five years' time. And you don't have the time to discuss with those affected? Today, the streets are full, teachers are demonstrating that parents are demonstrating, they are supported by students. Yeah, doesn't that make you think there's something lazy about it? [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] I think you would say to this model that we are presenting to you today, Yes, this would also lead to an end to this sick teacher's bashing, which is currently being operated everywhere. All over the world, teachers – and we have heard this again today – have to work only 17 hours, 18 hours, 20 hours. We know it's not. So let us start from a model of annual working time, as the other workers have, and we have finally left this discussion. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget: It's all about the kids in school. We are discussing this teacher service right here, as if it were central to the future educational reform. That's not it. We need a right of service based on the needs of the children, that is to say, staying at school all day, individual care and therefore – and that is right, Mr Mayer, for this we stand – longer time of presence, but no longer teaching time. We Greens have chosen our motto with thought: No child left behind! – A recommendation to the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e16794	The amendment tabled by Mrs Walser, Mr Walser, Mr Walser, was presented by Mr Walser in his corner and core points, and on the grounds that he is very long, I leave in accordance with § 53 para. 4 make this request for distribution. He's on trial. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17142	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17164	Madam President. Minister of Education! Federal Minister! High house! As a father of five children, who just had three school-leaving children, let me point out a few points: First: I want young people to be teachers and to be able to pass on the enthusiasm they have with them to the children. Secondly, I want all teachers to be represented by a union without being defamed for their legitimate work in a media-based shitstorm. And I would like teachers in this country to be proud of their profession and to receive respect and respect for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But not with this right to serve! With this right of duty, that will be nothing!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the preparation for this right of service is unfortunately marked by confrontation rather than cooperation. And this leads to my receiving emails from thousands of teachers in the last few days who are afraid of the future of their profession, where they should give hope and optimism to our children. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Such a fool! That's nonsense!]] – Mr colleague, you think it is a stupid feeling that teachers should pass on hope and optimism to the students. Mr Commissioner, really, think about what you are saying! Our teachers should be able to pass on their enthusiasm to the children, and I think that deserves a warm welcome. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz.]] That is why we are also changing this right to teach. All teachers now have a better education. You're all getting a master's degree. Better trained teachers mean more quality for the school. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: We're in service law, not in training!]] More quality for the school means better education for our children, ladies and gentlemen. And we support that! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not the topic!]] Second point: This better education, which teachers receive, is to be honoured. How to honor that? By a higher salary. All teachers will receive higher initial salaries in the future, and that partly dramatic, positively dramatic. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: How's it going? What is the end of history?- Oh, my God!]] It is from 200 € to 400 € to some 800 €, which they get more per month. Ladies and gentlemen, we honour a high level of education for the teachers. And we appreciate their work and thank them for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These were the positive points why we are changing teacher service law now. And now we are getting to the criticism that was still appropriate here. The criticism points were below the social partnership negotiations. Yes, and this is now also a call from me to the new Minister of Education: Social-social negotiations must be conducted with empathy, passion in the matter and perhaps also with a shot of cheerfulness so that they can be concluded. This is what we need in the future, Madam Minister of Education, and you will also receive our support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: If the new builder is present, it won't be that easy!]] The second major criticism that you had was the non-competent teaching, where there was concern that many teachers should teach non-competence. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that would really put quality in Austria at risk. Why? Which example does this best show us? This shows us Baden-Württemberg. Baden-Württemberg has for two and a half years had a green-red government, the first green Prime Minister. Baden-Württemberg was an educational precedent and has crashed in the last two and a half years. As a study shows, which was carried out in Berlin a few weeks ago, 50 percent of students who do not go to gymnasia – Mr. Walser, listen carefully! – not the minimum standards in mathematics and natural sciences. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: In two and a half years the system does not crash, they are number 4 in Germany!]] And why, Mr. Walser? – Because this green-red government was interested in introducing so-called community schools, from the first class to the second grade, where there is no more permeability and where there are only notes in the final certificate. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: There's no such thing! Get in touch!]] This is the point, ladies and gentlemen, which we have prevented in Austria. We continue to have the eight-year-old gymnasium in Austria. This makes us different, and this will lead us to an educational advantage and not to an educational disadvantage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have proposed a bar in the Committee on Foreign Education. This will not exist in the future, but just as with any other official, there will only be the possibility that we can have a allocation for six months or one semester, and then only with his consent. I believe that we have found a very suitable solution, and I would like to thank my colleagues from SPÖ who have helped bring together this great change in this Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Maybe there might be an ÖVP education speaker again!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is important for me to note that this government paper was not in any way reflected, but that we have made the major changes in the Committee. It has succeeded in reducing the teaching obligation from 22 to 20 hours for teachers who have completed secondary education. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: That's not what's in the law!]] I believe that this is also a clear sign that there must be a difference between teachers teaching school subjects and those teaching other subjects. We have thus clearly shown that we are doing very differentiatedly. In the case of the motions for resolutions, I can particularly support the Minister for Education in all matters. I would also like to thank parts of the opposition which have supported these motions for resolutions. This means that the individual talents and talents of the individual students in the new school system must also be taken into account accordingly. This means that the workplace situation needs to be taken into account, that infrastructure needs to be improved. This means that we need teachers' support to relieve them of administrative tasks, and that means that we need support staff, including in the sociological, medical and psychological field. For this, you have our full support, Mrs Teaching Ministers, and I wish you luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17376	Mrs Vetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17397	Madam President. High house! Perhaps it is symptomatic, ladies and gentlemen, that we are holding this discussion right now. Today we have heard of this new federal government for hours from the beautiful new world. And the first thing that comes from the beautiful new world after this narrative is the teacher’s right, which obviously failed in so many things. Obviously, a lot of porcelain has been smashed here. We are so proud of our social partnership tradition that we manage to bring both sides together and reach a compromise. And precisely on this important question, the education of teachers, one has not made such a compromise. It is true that in the wind shadows of this government formation this important question is to be whipped through today – today, where it may experience less attention in the public. And with all that has been discussed in the public, you have to say that a lot of porcelain has obviously been smashed here. And I'm not saying that no side made mistakes. I'm sure something came from both sides. I also say quite openly that these many e-mails also went to my nerves. Quantity is not a quality, even though Lenin said the opposite. This applies both to the government side and – you have to say that – to the teacher's side. However, it is one of the most obvious errors in this development that one takes the last step, the teacher's law, before the first, if one does not yet know in which direction the school system is developing. In our view, it is primarily about introducing school autonomy and finding flexible solutions with all those involved – teachers, parents and students. That would be our idea for a future school and a future service right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17437	Mr Wittmann has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17459	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Rosenkranz, I must be a little surprised at this: How can one be opposed to requiring teachers to take a Master's degree in teaching? [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: That means the University Conference! Don't even listen!]] There is no point in writing an improvement in the training of teachers in the law of teachers! It's only for the students. It's a farce to say: We leave the training at the age, then it's better. Master training means that every teacher – from the smallest educated child to the largest child – has the same equivalent, good education that is necessary to teach children. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, colleague Wittmann, were you in? You don't understand anything!]] There can be no one against it, unless one wants to change political change now, that one is even against master training! [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: You were intellectually better before! You didn't watch!]] Well, once again for you to understand: Better education means better training for our children. This also has to inform you, even if you don't want it and just want to change coins. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: You didn't watch! I'll send you the protocol and put it on! Learn externally and write a hundred times!]] You act like everything's just bad. Even within the teachership there have been different opinions on this teacher’s right. The compulsory school teachers are largely in favour of this new teacher's right, because it finally gives them the chance to receive higher salaries even by re-enacting training. There is the possibility to get higher initial salaries to achieve a flatter income curve. Teachers can then get the money if they need it when they start a family and stand at the beginning of their career. You can't be against that unless you want to make it bad. I am with you on the step towards decentralisation, on the autonomy of the school. We are not at the end of this process, but it is moving. We've started putting the wheel on the move. At some point you also have to enter into a negotiation in order for a movement to take place. We have made committee statements on a study of working time, which should be the basis of an annual work-time model. That's reasonable. We have five years, in five years the first trained teachers come out according to the new system. We have five years to think of this annual working time model, we have five years to adapt it gradually. It is not possible to make a more open system than to offer the old teachers a choice when the new training takes place. On the other hand, the new teachers will only come in five years when the first completed studies are under the new study order. You will then be given the opportunity to enter. During this time we look at the working time model. You will not find an open, more reasonable system! I think it's wrong to pour oil into the fire now. I think the teachership of compulsory school teachers can live very well with this model. The positional darks of the AHS teachers will soon be reduced, especially if the equivalent training leads to equal pay.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17547	Mr Dr Rosenkranz spoke on an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions: first of all, the facts to be corrected, then the corrected facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17574	Madam President. Mr Wittmann said in his speech that in my speech I had had something against the fact that teachers generally have master training. – That’s wrong! I'm actually correcting: I have merely expressed the concerns of the University Conference, according to which the start of the career as a Bachelor and then the master's training is a difficulty and, in some cases, there is a danger that this Master will not be reached. Nothing else has I said, and I ask colleagues Wittmann to perhaps not talk, but to listen to me better.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17608	This has, of course, been a little more than an actual correction. [[Abg.: (on the way to his seat) But only to the end! I just wanted to see that I do not have to make any more actual corrections to Mr Wittmann!]] [[Call the FPÖ: He's talking again!]] Mr Dr. Strolz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17653	Madam President. Estimated government bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear citizens! Teacher service law has got us busy, we NEOS will not go along with it. We consider teacher service law and the establishment of this teacher service right to be obsolete. We weren't in the high house at the time, but we thought it was obsolete 13 years ago. Even when you started discussing and negotiating about it, it was outdated. I will also explain what we thought was modern. You, the ‘Groko’, will decide by your majority. That is what we are proposing, and that is why we would like to make two amendments in concrete terms and a motion for a resolution which puts our rejection in a wider context. Mrs Bundesminister, valued for money: Good birthday! You had that yesterday, I think. I also want to set out a few light-fires for the next few years. I was very interested in this, and you gave an interview yesterday to the daily “ÖsterREICH”. You said that this government programme is once a start. You said it was a good start. I put “good” in the education field in parentheses. We're going to go much further. That is why, as I believe, it is also interesting to hear the proposals that we will then present in the motion for a resolution. Harald Walser and Robert Lugar are also on board. That means that there are several fractions on board. Above all, it is a subject – the area of autonomy – of which you yourself say we have to re-examine it. Mr Mayer, you have said that it is a journey that we have begun. I would have understood you that way. I think it is quite right that we continue this journey consistently over the next five years. And I think that there is also a lot possible here in the House, I think it is possible that there are majority voting for it. On the amendments to teacher service law or to this conglomerate, the following are reformed: We would like to reduce the teaching obligation for the contractual teachers in the induction phase – these are the young teachers who enter the school freshly – according to § 40a para. Three to one fifth. What does that mean? – We must imagine that the young teachers come in and adapt to their profession after a period of longer study. We all know that it is infinitely much work when you work in a new job. We NEOS can sing a song of it right now. This is infinitely much effort, and fortunately one forgets after a few years, how strenuous it was, how partly almost overwhelming. What do we do with the young teachers? – We put a full teaching obligation on them and say: Good luck! We're going to say: We expect you to make an additional career-accompanied Master's degree. Ladies and gentlemen, please speak to young teachers. Talks also with trade unionists who have not always played a good role in these thirteen years of negotiations. But that's certainly a point you need to listen to. You also got the many emails. We need to make these young people a lot more free for this phase of induction when they start their profession. They have a special task of arriving in their profession. That's why: Reduce the teaching obligation by one-fifth by 20 percent. Now some will say: Well, they can voluntarily give up on it, it's not that bad, they can take part-time employment. – But you all know what is waiting for us in the next few years. Mrs. Federal Minister, we will be looking for teachers. We have too few teachers. That's foreseeable. Therefore, the pressure will be immense that they accept full-time employment. I'm predicting: You will not only accept full-time appointments. The pressure will be great that they even do overtime. We're pushing the young teachers into the overload. That is why I would like to support this amendment. I also believe that this was perhaps too little in focus and that this is also a wild cow trade for Members – well. [[Abg. Mayer: Do you agree?]] We need to talk about it. I come with the second amendment. Okay? Second amendment: During this induction phase, the so-called mentor has an important role to play. By the way, I consider the educational training to be new for a direction-setting legislation of the last period. I think it's good, I think it's the best project of the Age Forge. Mrs. Federal Minister! Now it depends on how we implement this law. That's very important. I am very skeptical about the relationship between universities and educational universities. In addition, I urgently ask that the educational universities be appointed to the Ministry of Science. If we say we have a university ministry, then of course the educational university also belongs to the science ministry. This is not a downstream unit of the Ministry of Education. It's completely next to the trail when you do it again. At the last great coalition, it was so because there was an exchange between Lipizzans and educational universities. You've got to prove fineness. Now there was this discussion, some say that the Ministry of Science is being given away somewhere. Let's be kind and say: It is a Ministry of Science and Economics. But then I expect you to also accommodate the educational universities there. What is important in this induction phase? We have to give the teachers the time. We will find it difficult to find mentors because they have to train and so on. At the moment, it is planned that this mentor will have an hour for up to three mentees, so young teachers. Now let's imagine this practically! There come three young teachers, teachers in this profession and say: Okay! Wonderful! I'm getting an accompaniment, and it's got an hour for three people. – Yes, what's going on is a better break conversation. That's 20 minutes a week. It's not a serious mentoring, it's not a serious coaching. That's just not thought-out. That is why we ask that one hour be given to the mentor per contract person, that is, per youth teacher. I think that's really important. That is, in the case of three young teachers, young teachers who are cared for, you would have three hours a week. It's still not crazy much. But, Mr Mayer, I ask you to go there. Wolfgang Gerstl, I beg you to come with me. I mean, that would be a suggestion of goodness. I can still say that Walter Rosenkranz is also on board this request for raising to one hour per junior teacher. - Thank you very much. On board the motion for a resolution are Harald Walser and Robert Lugar. What is important to us for the next five years? Why aren't we for this teacher's law? – It's just a case of wrong. Elmar Mayer! Wolfgang Gerstl! What it would actually need is a framework collective agreement for teachers. What does that mean? – We want the staff, educational and financial autonomy of schools. That is, we order the directors, directors on-site through a school community committee together with the bearer organisation and with a quality agency to be created by the federal government. That would be the right step. Then we give them freedom and responsibility – of course, within a clearly defined framework, therefore the NEOS proposal of middle maturity. We are already on the way with the standards on this trip. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz.]] - Please? [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: But the runway is not yet in sight!]] - Well, she's not in sight yet, that's right. But we've already hit the flight snow. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: The poor trees!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Are the greens there?]] These directors with personal responsibility are then just responsible for hireing teachers. You can also say goodbye to teachers. That would be great progress, even for the teachers. There are people in every profession who have landed wrong, who cannot really be used there. At the moment, this would be the so-called hiking pots. There are only losers. I would dare the hypothesis that even the teacher concerned is suffering the rest of his professional life, that he is not approved. This applies to every profession. Let's get on with the 5 percent that just landed wrong! This would be very good for the teacher's profession. If that is the case, we don't need a teacher's right, we need a framework collective contract, and the rest we go to the schools on site. There are many countries that are doing this in this direction. I think we should take decisive steps in this direction. We would have other points inside: Of course, there is also freedom of choice for students and parents. Of course, we want to make school associations possible. The Quality Agency is important for the networking of teachers and also for the support of school autonomy. I therefore come to the motion for a resolution and ask for support for the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am happy if we can take this trip together.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17756	Mr President, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the amendments have not been tabled by you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17774	That's right? We have to check that out, I think. These are initial difficulties.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17792	You have to read these three sentences literally, and if that does not happen, the applications are not filed. It's relatively simple. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17811	I'm a G's dwindler. I have read the motion for a resolution correctly.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17832	Yes.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17847	It's wonderful. I am therefore tabling the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] The reason has already been given, and I therefore come to the second amendment: Amendment by Dr Matthias Strolz, colleagues ==References====External links== Decisions to be taken by the European Parliament and the Council on the proposal from the Commission to ‘The government template (1 d.a.) a federal law, as amended by the Committee's report (6 d.b.), with which the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Servants Act 1948, the Federal Teachers' Teaching Obligation Act, the Land Teachers' Service Law, the State Contracting Law 1966, the Land and Forestry Law on State Teachers' Service, the Land and Forestry Law on State Contracting Teachers' People's Law is amended and the Teaching Practice Act repealed (Service Law Novelle 2013 – Educational Service) is amended as follows: 1. In Art. 2 Z 9 is added to Section 39: ‘(13) For contractual teachers in the induction phase, the teaching obligation is reduced according to § 40a para. 3 by one-fifth.’ 2. In Art. 5 Z 2 shall be added to Section 5 of the following paragraph 11: ‘(11) For contractual teachers in the induction phase, the teaching obligation is reduced according to § 8 para. 3 by one-fifth.’ 3rd. In Art. 7 Z 2 shall be added to Section 5 of the following paragraph 11: ‘(11) For contractual teachers in the induction phase, the teaching obligation is reduced according to § 8 para. 3 by one-fifth.’ Madam President, thank you for taking the flight. - That's it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e17939	Mr deputies, you have now properly filed the requests. If we were not so precise with these rules of procedure, we could not make good laws. Therefore, it will apply to each individual here in this room that these provisions will also be complied with. The two amendments and the motion for a resolution are under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18117	Next speaker: Ms Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18138	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I am really looking forward to working with all the parties represented here on education policy – that I mean very seriously. Because if we look at one or the other in real political terms, then one or another, even one or another, needs the clarity of the flight snow in order to avoid turning off. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Education policy is compact, has many stakeholders, starting with school maintenance up to legislation, is very federally structured, not as central as I would sometimes wish. Nevertheless, I believe, the past years have shown that a lot has been set in motion. With today's conclusion, with your vote on the new teacher service law, ladies and gentlemen, a new right of service and remuneration for the largest group in the public service is being created for 125 000 colleagues, many of whom I have been able to get to know, in the form of e-mails over the past few weeks and months, many of whom I know personally, namely, from the time when I taught myself, whose opinions differed very clearly from those of the teacher trade union. That is why, I believe, it is not worth saying that teachers are so globally opposed to this right of service. I believe that many understanding colleagues are working in the school sector, who are looking forward to young colleagues knowing first of all what is happening to them, and, secondly, to taking part in their own work. Because the exact cases of burnout and non-more can come partly because of the fact that many overtimes had to be done and must and that many who might have had a 17.1-hour contract have taught 23, 24 or 25 hours, did many, many overtimes and did not want to, because there was simply too little collaboration because the hours were so divided that it did not fit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Just this teacher's service right, which is a reform project – Mrs. Moser, we have already discussed this in the Constitutional Committee – is not a savings programme, but a reform project that will amount to €10 billion over the next 40 years. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You believe that!]] It is worth it for our children to get the best in order to ensure that their colleagues in the field of teachership receive good entry salaries, a proper, adequate payment of all allowances that are made. The work of all the leaders who do this in the future will be well paid off. Managing a school is not an easy job. There too we want to support. We want to support the teachers themselves. That is to say, the overall package is one that starts today with the decision of the teacher and teacher's right to work, which must be accompanied by support staff both in the administration and in the pedagogical field, which will ultimately lead to so much praised autonomy and facilitation. A lot of things have already been said. It is not only the higher entrance salaries, but also the master-quality training of all those who will take this profession; from 2029 you can only be employed as a master. Until then, it is possible, and this already gives the current legal situation, that you are also temporarily taught in foreign objects, when emergency situations are. But in principle, of course, we are totally in touch with the union by saying: Master's degree is the goal. Propos union: I am extremely sorry, and I would like to say at this point that it has not been possible to do so with the amendments that the government parties have still negotiated – thank you very much for being able to take this decision today – to take this step in advance with the teacher union, as is actually the usual social partnership. I am a great friend of the social partners. I have not only proved this in the public service, no, also as a woman minister in the income reports. Negotiations with the social partners were always necessary in order to take the next common step. Even after many, many years and many, many rounds with Mrs. Fekter, with Mrs. Schmied and my person, we have not succeeded in moving so close to each other that we could have reached a compromise that is half satisfactory. I am pleased for the young colleagues that they will have a right of service, of which they know what they expect, and I hope that as many as possible will take up this wonderful profession, which I too have been working for a very long time.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18187	Next, Mr Magistrate. Hammer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18208	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today we have to adopt the decision on the right to teach. If you listen to the discussion and if you look at all the amendments we are making, you can say, I think: This is a quite acceptable right of service, a good teacher's right of service, we can agree with the quiet conscience. I can join where the Federal Minister has stopped. It is, of course, unfortunate that no social partnership agreement has been reached, but I believe that the good discussions and the good negotiations with the trade union, with the teachers in the Constitutional Committee, have led to the fact that we have been able to eliminate the most essential criticisms. With this, I have already come to the constructiveness of the opposition. The teachers' law was used by many of you to stop the government before the National Council elections, on the other hand also to increase the pressure on the teacher's office and to drive the teacher's bashing forward. At the end, when the service right came into the house here, one put the package as one that is unacceptable and, in total, not portable at all. We looked at all the many emails we got. If you extract this, then there are three, four points, and these three, four points could now also be removed. This is about the Master's degree, about non-special education and also about the teaching obligation in the subjects of school work. It is also important for me to point out the motions for resolutions, because I believe it is a command of the hour that we in schools improve infrastructure, improve teachers' jobs and, above all, support administrative activities. Because the schools are among the few establishments where the director himself still has to go to the phone, has no secretariat, and I think you should get up there. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] To sum up, as I have said, there is a paper that is now largely supported by teachers. If one listens to the debate and the contributions of the opposition, then one realizes that very small fines are selected to find reasons to reject it. I regret that because in reality we would not have been far apart. You could also agree. We'll do it because there's a good draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18257	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18278	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors and Watch out for the screens! It is a matter of following this debate here as a Member of Parliament that we must say, in fact, that it is both an expression and a terrifying one, in which form the Members of Red and Black are doing fine dyeing here when it comes to teacher service law. If here the ÖVP in the form of colleague Mag. Gerstl comes out and becomes the savior of the teachership and the teacher in Austria, but in reality the party-political glasses and shrouds of ÖVP and SPÖ are the root of all evils when it comes to teacher service law, then it really beats the ground. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it is to be feared that, in conjunction with the Declaration of Government on Education and Science, first of all, the standstill in the fields of education and science is prolonged, second, only red-black retention is fixed and thirdly, with Austria being disassembled at councils. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] This is the summary of the current construction, when we talk about how expert opinions were taken, how it was ignored that thousands of emails from students, students, parents' associations and teachers from all over Austria were addressed to us. All of these are people who need to know how best to deal with this law in order to further ensure with a high-quality service right that: Next step a school with class is created, ladies and gentlemen. That's what it's all about. We ourselves or most of the inside here – and this must be done on the tongue – are apparently not capable of consenting: Yes, we are a self-confident Parliament, we know the problems that have been shown to us a thousand times, we will analyse them and, together, we will solve them in the committee responsible. That would be a self-confident parliamentaryism, as I imagine him, as the liberals imagine him, that we are doing our task together. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I am saying this precisely in view of the fact that the entry into force of this law is 2019 and that you do not give us here in Parliament two or three more months from Red and Black here in order to resolve the problems with each other, to work out a compromise here, to find a way to develop a right of service that is also carried by those who have to work under this right of service, ladies and gentlemen. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] However, one thing is positive in this whole debate: that the old-ish-ish-new German government will not be able to steal from responsibility! For the head of the government of Red and Black, whether old or new, has made this law work, has sent on the journey and will in future also bear the responsibility for what a Murks has been presented here to the Austrian Parliament and also to the population. The head of the Red and Black Government is responsible for the fact that, as I have already said, only black and red party policy has been introduced into these negotiations and that the undisputed necessary reform of the right to serve has been misused, ladies and gentlemen, preferring a reform of education. The head of the government of Red and Black also bears responsibility for the fact that, as mentioned earlier, opinions, experiences and needs, analysed by children, young people and by pupils as well as by the parents' associations, but also by the teachers concerned, have been wiped away, not installed and therefore not taken into account. You are responsible if you do not comply with what we have requested from my esteemed colleague Dr. Rosenkranz and also in my person – the request is already made by the President – to decide to refer the matter back to the committee in order to give us as self-confident parliamentarians the opportunity to draw up a corresponding, mature law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18360	The next item is Mr Preiner's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18382	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to give a brief answer to his remarks to my previous speaker: Austria is a successful country. According to Eurostat, Austria takes second place in economic power per capita; I think that is enough answer. A basis for this is our education system at the end of the day. Education is of central importance in the new government programme. I would like to mention that 400 million € are available in addition to the expansion of school forms all day long. The future of education has therefore already begun in the recent past. I refer only to the reduction of the maximum number of students to 25 and to the introduction of the New Secondary School. Another important step is that in 2013 we passed the Education Education Act-new. What's this about? – Equal training for equal work. Today we decide the LDG-new, the teacher service and salary law. This is also an important milestone for the future educators and educators. It is about the same payment for the same work being done, that there should no longer be a two-class society in the teachership in the future. Some essential contents that are particularly important to me: I would like to address the higher entrance salaries – they have already been mentioned several times today – 2, 420 €. I am glad that this is much more than the entry-level content of many educators in the old salary system. If you get into a new job when you start teaching a house when you're referring to an apartment, you need a correspondingly higher entrance content, and that's what the new salary law is about to do. I would also like to mention that there is a five-year transitional period for the new LDG until the school year 2019/20. The young colleagues can choose whether to stay in the old system or opt for the new system. I also strongly support a system of allowances, especially for school work subjects. Of course, it is also necessary for the educators to be freed from administrative tasks. Therefore, the Ministry's commitment to more support staff. Finally, I would also like to point out that there are already so-called KEL talks in the New Middle School – children, parents, teachers – which are specifically about educational, educational content. This too has already been tested in the NMS and will be further expanded in the future. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The new LDG provides an essential basis for increasing quality for the children for whom students are offered in the future. I am convinced that the educators will continue to apply the corresponding teaching content to the pupils in the future with great motivation. The new LDG also contributes to the security of Austria's economic location, and I believe that this, at the end of the day, is crucial for the future of the entire population in the country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] It has already been said that the teachers are goldsmiths of the nation. I therefore hope that the opposition will include the new LDG. Ladies and gentlemen, at the upcoming Christmas and the turn of the year 2014 I wish you all, even all the spectators in front of the television screens, all good, especially health!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18449	Next is Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18472	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Estimated citizens! “Education is the most powerful weapon you can use to change the world.” – This sentence comes from Nelson Mandela and should shape today’s debate. The draft new teacher service law has moved many people in Austria, has triggered debate, discourse. Many people, teachers, parents, students, active citizens, spoke to me personally and talked to me. This makes it clear once again how important education and education policy is for all people in our country. After more than 25 years in the economy, I can only underline this importance. Solid education is the foundation of a successful economy. We are all responsible for ensuring that the framework conditions for teachers are a good basis for young people to receive the best possible training. Education stands on every signpost into the future, so we have established it in our party program. We are in favour of maintaining and improving the quality of schools with a differentiated school system, namely to promote the individuality and creativity of pupils. I would like to explain why I will give my approval to this draft. The presentation takes into account the fact that the school no longer has to be an office but a modern service company. It is about the service to the students. They're our customers. And the students themselves and, of course, the parents belong to this unique service of education. Not for nothing are all three, namely the teachers, the students and the parents, the school partners, and none of them are allowed to steal from this educational responsibility. School is, we all know, much more than knowledge transfer or PISA test results. It is about personality and character formation, the ability to think independently and to be creative, and the goal of making our children powerful citizens. As a long-term employer, I know how important it is to have clear framework conditions in a service relationship. These rights and obligations are defined in this presentation on the law of the teacher's service. There is therefore clarity about the framework conditions that facilitate concentration of teachers on the actual content, namely teaching. Anyone who wants to be a teacher in the future will deliberately say yes to these conditions. The draft law also shows the greater appreciation that the teaching profession deserves. It results in higher-quality training and higher pay. The importance of teaching for our society cannot be highly appreciated. Our common task is therefore to make this public. Let us talk well together about those we trust our children every day! The new service law also involves an increase in the teaching obligation by two hours. I think that's fair. The new teachers of the year 2019/2020 can depend on it, and the additional two hours given for the advice and support of students benefit students outside the classroom. Of course, I am in favour of a modern working environment and a modern provision of teachers. This is what we have put in our motion for a resolution in the Constitutional Committee and we have decided there. This new right of service is based on a new educational education system. In the future, all teachers will complete a master's degree, including the teachers. Now we are equal to the right to serve: From four service rights are two, each for federal and regional teachers. The burden of high-level school subjects was particularly taken into account, the foreign use of teachers was limited to a semester, and the cross-entry – very important – of the economy in the teaching profession was activated by better means of accounting. I am convinced that we are taking a proper, necessary step with this package for all our school partners. Let us help each of us here in this space, in the sense of Nelson Mandela's thought, to change the world positively through education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18537	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18558	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In education policy, an interesting coalition has developed: Green, NEOS and FPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Because the law is a smear!]] It is also important to look at the content, the focus. How easily transparent this opposition game is, I think that has also shown the words. [[Abg. Kickl: Why doesn't the education speaker talk?]] It's not really about looking for a common way in the matter, but it's just that you can't approve something that's really well prepared. At my colleague Walser, I am surprised that he still believes in the Christkind. The application, exactly what Harald Walser presented, was shot in the wind ten years ago by the AHS teacher union with Bausch and Arche. They said we don't want what the compulsory school teachers have. So that would mean you have to get back to the start at all, which also came out of the many conversations that we have certainly all conducted – not just the e-mails deleted – I think. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser]] If you really want to do this in the sense of parts of the union – I deliberately say “parts of the union” – you have to go back to the start completely. That would actually throw us away from education policy. You can turn it and turn it around as you like. And that's why the request – I even believe you, Mr. Walser – is certainly well meant, but you know as well as I do, please read through the details, I've done it now – so, unfortunately, God, can't be implemented. The next thing is with the teachers. We now know that we have an urge, although the discussion is going in this direction, although leading trade unionists are calling for protests. The pedagogical universities, as well as the teaching studies at the universities, can hardly resist the onslaught and for themselves. You make it clear that God is grateful, appropriate testing in the future. You can see that not every teacher can be. But all of this just isn't right. In recent years, we have also created over € 1 billion of expenditure, over 10,000 additional posts. You're acting like if we didn't do anything. One will also be able to meet this challenge now. I now come to the crucial part of the concept, namely the induction phase. As you say correctly, I am of your opinion: If young teachers were to be obliged to do the full teaching obligation or they even had to do overtime, it would be a wrong concept. The Minister of Science – I am still saying, Minister of Science – is my witness: Exactly at the Stakeholder Conferences, when meeting with the Science Council, one has to take advantage of the opportunity that people who have studied for eight semesters can then carry out school-oriented research in practice and make their master work-accompanied. Try this! Do this, that's a success model! That's exactly why we did that. Not only has it been said that you need a lot of teachers, but it also has a pedagogical background, why you have chosen this path, and also because of recommendations and advice from those who actually need to know it, who also teach it at universities and PHs. That is why it is crucial that we do not make that up before we even start it. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: How do you want to do this?]] Finally, this is a really important concern to me, because we have to clear out the facts: It must not be forgotten that everyone – of course, in the case of different teaching obligations, I already admit – gets a higher starting point of at least 20 percent. School teachers, you will see that everyone, including primary and secondary school teachers, will opt into the new system because I have 20 percent more starting point in the same load – now converted into the old system. They're going to change there – no. We have included in the motion for a resolution all the framework conditions that we have said – better jobs, administrative relief. They are being improved organisationally. Among the “old” teachers: None of them must be afraid that they will have to teach in the new system or that they will have to work for an hour now, just because we are now deciding on new conditions. They stay in the old system and also the new ones can opt for five years, whether they want it or not. And we've given ourselves five years to re-adjust things. So since we do not agree now, even in the sense of the opposition, it is really reluctant to prevent further progress. That's why I'm asking you to go along with this path! I admit that we must go in the direction – I would like to join you in your request, Mr Strolz – of greater school autonomy. They are Vorarlberger, the Walser is a Vorarlberger. I'll invite you to: Visit the New Secondary Schools in Alberschwend, in Bürs. There, this school autonomy is already being implemented within the framework of the New Middle School. The most modern teaching takes place there with all the concepts. It would be wrong to say that a bad, dusty ministry or anyone is blocking something, but it has to develop. We need this path of development, and to do so we need the positive mood of all, especially those who decide the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18649	Mr Ostermayer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18671	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Walser! I have met you in the course of the negotiations on the law to restore the victims of the inter-war injustice regime. Getting to know me was such that I had the impression that you were interested in finding solutions. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Right!]] Then you stand there and say you should not decide this law now, but you still have five years in this legislative period to negotiate a new law. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There is an initiative proposal!]] I think this is more than surprising in view of the debate that took place in the morning. When we discussed the government programme, the Federal Minister Gehrer sat above, who, I believe, began to negotiate a new teacher and teacher's right to work 12 years ago. It failed for twelve years. Now, in the last legislative period, a new educational education has been decided, and that is exactly what has led to further steps being taken. If we agree with the principle of equal pay for equal training and equal work, then we have achieved something. Then we are fully compliant in a point that is now being implemented by this law. The fact that there are individual groups within the teachership, which have different interests, I have come to know that too. For a time I was allowed to be in the context of coordination and then at the last meeting with 15 teachers, I think, in collaboration with the Federal Minister and with Mr Klubobmann Reinhold Lopatka. And it was there that there are these different interests. By the way, it was also a certain relief, after it was over and clear that this is now on the way and the Federal Government is taking the individual steps. So, I think this is a bit funny if one argues in the morning that the government programme would mean a standstill because a government programme is, so to speak, the start-up disaster for work in this upcoming legislative period. And a program is a plan of things you want to implement. There are a lot of measures, but I do not want to go into the morning debate. If in the afternoon you actually keep a relatively inconspicuous standstill-plädoyer, I don't understand the situation. I think it has been discussed 36 rounds long in this legislative period and some time before, and one has not gone on. One then went on gradually, but the last point was of course that there should, so to speak, be the same income for the same performance. I believe that with a second principle, which is used, we would probably also have consensus, namely higher entry salaries and a lower wage curve, which in all, however, means that everyone and everyone – at least this was the bill of the Ministry of Education – deserve more at the end compared to the current scheme. But regardless of whether the model works or does not work, another point has been installed. By the way, he will enter into force in 2015 and not 2019, Mr Darmann. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Parts of the law!]] Furthermore, the possibility has been given that future teachers – the current ones are not concerned – have the opportunity to choose. So they then decide whether in this period the new system is better or the existing system. And if I am not completely mistaken, because of the many conversations we had, most will probably choose the new system. There are opposition tactics, too, and I assume that this is the essential background for the word messages – so much to the difference between the current and the morning debate. But actually I wanted to use my word to thank several people: I would like to thank Claudia Schmied, who for a long time as Minister of Education has conducted the negotiations, which have also prepared and implemented many projects, which are individual building blocks for a better education system, including teacher service law. I would also like to thank Mrs Federal Minister Maria Fekter, who has always been there during the negotiations, and especially, of course, Gabi Heinisch-Hosek, who, as an official minister, has negotiated this very intensively and brought it to an end. It's almost ironic that I'm in charge now. I would also like to thank Klubobmann Reinhold Lopatka, who was also present on the last round, and who subsequently held a number of talks. I think it is a very good law that should be adopted, although the trade union did not agree in total. One has actually come across many points of the union. But – and I say that quite clearly now – I have had a number of projects in the last legislative period, which were so-called shopkeepers and which we could bring to an end. At some point you also have to make decisions as a government, as a parliament. [[Call the FPÖ:But not so bad!]] And I ask you to make the right decision! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18749	Mrs Dr. Moser has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18771	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Stay real, Gabi!]] They have tried to make really pedagogical charms happen in this high house today. If that were true, I'd be on your side. Only, the reality, Mrs. Minister, is that in five years, if no longer can be elected, a certain part of teachers have a lower total earnings. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: Not true!]] Yes, a certain part deserves less during his entire teacher's life. It's a smaller part, but it's a part. And that's why this teacher's law is last but not least a savings program. You have packed it nicely for Christmas, a few stitches in the form of motions for a resolution. This is really the chuzpe badhin'. Now there are 32 rounds of negotiations, or 35 or more, and at the end of this marathon, the majority of the government is still thinking that it is possible to decide on the one hand the right to teach, but it is not possible to build up certain things, because, as it were, the areas that are urgently needed by those concerned could still be used for calming down, as Placebo, in motions for resolutions, for example the support system. Why didn't you just install it? [[Interference of Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek.]] The same applies to work history or administrative tasks. You'd have been able to sort of clarify that. These are sound motions for resolutions on areas that really concern teachers. Mrs Minister and Mr Minister, that is why we have no agreement, even because unisono in the Committee was clear and clear that we also need a seasonal model for the preparation of the relevant documents, and also because it was clear that the people who were fully teaching for the first time cannot study at the same time. I can't. In the case of a 20-hour class obligation as a beginner, they have 80 hours of work. You know that just like me, because we did it once. In the future, people who work 60 to 80 hours for their profession cannot still have a master's degree in the universities! This is Chuzpe. That is not possible, and therefore we are unfortunately unable to support it despite your offer.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e18831	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote on Agenda items 2 and 3. On item 2 there is a referral request from Members Dr. Rosenkranz, colleagues. Therefore, I shall immediately vote on the draft law on Service Law Novelle 2013 – Educational Service in 6 of the Supplements to the Constitutional Committee. I am looking for those members of the House who stand up for it to be a sign. – This is the minority. This application is therefore rejected. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft Service Law Novelle 2013 – Educational Service in 6 of the Supplements. The following additional or amendments have been tabled: Mr Strolz, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dr. Walser, Dr. Strolz, Dr Rosenkranz, Dr. Vetter, colleagues, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Amendment tabled by Dr Strolz, Dr Rosenkranz, colleagues. There is also a desire for separate vote. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned and the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 2 Z 9 § 38 para. 2a, 3, 4 and 6 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for these parts of the bill to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of Parliament Dr. Strolz, colleagues, have an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph. 13 in Art. 2 Z 9 § 39. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Walser, Dr Strolz, Dr Rosenkranz, Dr Vetter, colleagues with regard to Rule. 2 Z 9 § 40a para. 3rd. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Dr Strolz, Dr Rosenkranz, colleagues on Art. 2 Z 9 § 40a para. 3 Z 2. If you agree to this amendment, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is also rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. 2 Z 9 § 40a para. 3 as part of the Committee's report, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Dr Walser, Dr Strolz, Dr Rosenkranz, Dr Vetter, colleagues on the insertion of new paragraph. 3a and 3b in Art. 2 Z 9 § 40a. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Dr. Walser, Dr. Strolz, Dr. Rosenkranz, Dr. Vetter, colleagues have an amendment concerning Art. 2 Z 9 §§ 43 and 46e. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mrs Strolz, colleagues, on the insertion of a new paragraph. 11 in Art. 5 Z 2 § 5. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The Members of Parliament Dr. Walser, Dr. Strolz, Dr. Rosenkranz, Dr. Vetter, colleagues have an amendment concerning Art. 5 Z 2 § 8 para. 3 introduced. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Dr Strolz, Dr. Mr Rosenkranz, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. 5 Z 2 § 8 para. 3 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Dr. Walser, Dr. Strolz, Dr. Rosenkranz, Dr. Vetter, colleagues and colleagues have submitted an additional request to insert new para. 3a and 3b in Art. 5 Z 2 § 8 zur Inhalt. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The Members of Parliament Dr. Walser, Dr. Strolz, Dr. Rosenkranz, Dr. Vetter, colleagues have an amendment concerning Art. 5 Z 2 §§ 13 and 22. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and is also rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mrs Strolz, colleagues, concerning the insertion of a new paragraph. 11 in Art. 7 Z 2 § 5. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The Members of Parliament Dr. Walser, Dr. Strolz, Dr. Rosenkranz, Dr. Vetter, colleagues have an amendment concerning Art. 7 Z 2 § 8 para. 3 introduced. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and therefore not accepted. We shall come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Strolz, Dr Rosenkranz, colleagues on Art. 7 Z 2 § 8 para. 3 Z 2. Whoever joins this amendment, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority and therefore not accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule. 7 Z 2 § 8 para. 3 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of Parliament Dr. Walser, Dr. Strolz, Dr. Rosenkranz, Dr. Vetter, colleagues have tabled an additional request for the insertion of new para. 3a and 3b in Art. 7 Z 2 § 8 has the content. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and therefore not accepted. We come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Walser, Dr Strolz, Dr Rosenkranz, Dr Vetter, colleagues on Art. 7 Z 2 §§ 13 and 23. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, this vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their third-reading approval to this draft law, “Yes” voted in favour, those who do not give him their consent to put “No” vote in the urn. Please make sure you only throw one vote. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin with the name call; Mr Buchmayr will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e19097	Did all the ladies and gentlemen give their votes? – Then the vote is over. I call on the House's officials to carry out the polling of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I am interrupting the sitting for a few minutes for the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e19135	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 169, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 93, ‘No’ votes: 76. This draft law is therefore adopted at the third reading. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Antoni, Aubauer; Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Mayer, muchich, muttons; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rudas; Schieder, Schmuckenschlager, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Aslan; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Franz, Fuchs; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek; Hable, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Hauser, Höbart, Hübner; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Lintl, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pok, Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter, Rossmann; Schatte, Schellenbacher, Schenk, Scherak, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strolz; themesl; Vavrik, Vetter, Vilimsky; Walser, Refuserstorfer, Willi, Windbühler-Sushill, Worm Peter; Singer, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e19326	We shall now proceed to the vote on those four resolutions, which are attached to the Committee's report 6 of the Supplements, in order in accordance with the Committee's report. [[Abg. Pendl stands at the government bank and talks with Federal Ministers.]] Mr President, we are in the middle of a voting process. Mr Pendl, we are in a voting process! First of all, we are voting on the resolution on the focus on internal school reform. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. I note that this motion for a resolution was adopted by a majority. (E 3.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution on teachers' jobs attached to the Committee's report 6 of the Supplements. Whoever wants to give him the consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 4.) vote on the resolution relating to the discharge of administrative tasks attached to the Committee's report 6. Whoever agrees, I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. (E 5.) vote on the resolution on support systems attached to the Committee's report 6. Whoever agrees, I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. (E 6.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues and colleagues on a modern FPÖ education concept for Austria's schools. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Strolz, ing. Lugar, Dr. Walser, colleagues on the extension of school autonomy. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on agenda item 3: Proposal from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 7 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[19:59:29]] 4. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 41/A by Mr Otto Pendl, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues with regard to a federal law which amends the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of Goods and Goods (Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the Law on the Law on the the the the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the the the 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 40/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues in a federal law that amends the Federal Constitutional Act on the Limitation of Pensions of Official Officials and the Federal Law on Contributions (9 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e19479	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e19506	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Two issues are now being dealt with under one. One is the federal law, i.e. the political salaries, and the second is a civil service law novelle. First of all, on the Novelle Civil Service Service, my colleague Lausch will speak in detail; I would just like to say something in part: There is an amendment which in itself has nothing to do with this new service law, or only on the verge of it. That's about moving a judge to Enns, so it's a Lex Enns, an extra law for a judge to be transferred. It is in principle provided for in the Constitution that a law can be applied to a judge who is otherwise inviolable. However, we believe that this law will be passed on the basis of a non-constitutional regulation. This is a regulation in Upper Austria, namely the 2012 District Court Regulation. There, district courts were assembled, and we believe that this is contrary to the Constitution, for in the Constitution – exactly: in the transitional law of 1 January 1989. October 1920 in § 8 – the following is recorded: ‘The boundaries of political districts, judicial districts, autonomous districts and local communities may not be cut.’ That is exactly what is happening through this regulation, and therefore the regulation itself is unconstitutional. That is why we cannot - we can - but it is still inadmissible - adopt a law here in Parliament under such an unconstitutional regulation. One can discuss changing the Constitution and saying: Yes, we want to make these court rulings! – This is another discussion, but you have to lead it. And the legislator – the Parliament – has also assumed in recent years that a constitutional change would be necessary here. Sometime in 1996, it was discussed and suggested that an amendment of this Section 8 should be made in order to amend the Constitution and to make possible judicial merger in this form. However, it is not possible to do so because there is no constitutional majority for it. That is, we cannot overlook it today, and it is therefore unacceptable to do so. I'm just trying to get all of you into this. One can also withdraw this amendment and not vote and then leave the other part of the new service law free of charge. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second point is the Federal Reference Act. Hiezu is a request from several parties that politicians' contributions are not increased by 2.4 percent, but only by 1.6 percent. – In our view, this is a very bad symbol in the current situation, because we know very well that family benefits have not been raised and so on – and not at all at this height. We can discuss for a long time how politicians can be rewarded, that's not a question, but it's definitely a very bad symbol if just a professional group – and we're the only one here in Austria – that can determine their salaries themselves, if we can determine our salaries ourselves here: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] Well, we do not raise them by 2.4 percent – that is, there seems to be something like a sense of not being allowed to excite these 2.4 percent – but we increase them by 1.6 percent. This is based on the increase in pensions, but with the salaries we have here, of course, this is so much more than what pensioners in general mean by 1.6 percent that this is an additional honey. I can therefore only ask you to go another way with us and make a request, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Go this way with us! This is a good symbol, even to the population. Don't go half the step with bad conscience by increasing by 1.6 percent and thus actually hit many people in the head!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e19609	Mr Magistrate. The amendment tabled by Stefan is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e19677	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e19698	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me turn to the last point: It is a few years ago that we have unanimously – unanimously: all political groups! – in order to end the political debate and so that we do not always respond to day-to-day policy, we have made a regulation, and we have said that we do not need to deal with it at all here. [[Abg. May. Stefan: That's why we make 1.6 percent?]] We do not seem to want automaticism, because we have already been subjected to this automaticism several times a year with a law of our own, but now we are already so far that we seem to have the discussion again. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Why do we make 1.6%?]] I understand! We don't need to talk about it, because even if we don't get anything, there will be people who say, that's too much. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz:... but let's take it, then a few sausage semitrailers go out more!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: You have made the request with the 1.6 percent!]] You can't win the discussion, that's it, colleague Rosary! But if we have already found a settlement to take ourselves out of the discussion, and then we fall around and some of us on a lower amount – and then we have the discussion again, then the polemic is pure. That's where you can say whatever you want. On the next question, concerning the Court of First Instance. – So I only notice one thing now: To say now, perhaps the Supreme Court has something to say?- Oh, my God! – The current legal system is crystal clear, and according to the current legal system, it is also clear what the legislator has to decide here – whether the regulation is repealed or not, let us put it there. It is! If we don't respond, then keep us in mind that a judge sits where there isn't even a court. Well, I'll take a look at the discussion. So I think the legislator must start from the current legal system and not from one: What if? – So I’d ask you to see it this way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I may come to some points as regards service law, where there are some improvements as regards care leave, with regard to service certificates for officials, with regard to better consideration of part-time workers and teleworkers with regard to travel costs, and some other points, especially as regards better remuneration for administrative practitioners and the implementation of Union law. However, I would like to ask for one thing – and Mr Darmann, I say this as someone who has been dealing with these issues for many, many years: I have already listened to what you said before, and I say so, because some speakers keep saying the same thing. Generally speaking, this speaker's role is constantly criticised by the fact that there are 37 rights of service. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] The 37 rights of service were constantly criticized. As a headline, it says: We have to take them back, and with each and every one of them. The subject area is always argued by the same speaker here: Let's go to the specialist committees! – There it tears us: Then we don't have 37 service rights, then we probably have 50 service rights at the end of the day. Therefore, the historical approach has always been to ensure that we have a link of solidarity between the different professional groups somewhere, that we have always dealt with the Constitutional Committee and not the Trade Committees. And that for good reason! I can only invite you to this and ask you: If we do not want to break down in such a way in all fields of service law and pay, we have to see that we really keep it in one area, otherwise it will not be possible. However, I would like to thank you very much for the service section – Mrs. Sectionschefin, with you, with her employees – for the permanent good cooperation and support in the interests of the public servants who provide a first-class service for the Austrians. Minister Ostermayer, I wish you much strength and great success for the new task of public service so that the Austrians can receive services and services with the services of the public service, which we present as politicians and which the citizens have a right. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e19797	Next, Mr. Ing. Lugar in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e19818	Mr President. High house! We are talking today about whether Parliament should receive a salary increase. There is an amendment that we will support. Always when it comes to whether someone gets a salary increase, you have to ask for the benefit. Here I ask the question: Has Parliament earned a salary increase? [[Abg. Vilimsky: Above all: Have you earned one? Unbelievable!]] If so, the question arises: What's up to? As evidence, I present the “Kronen Zeitung. ” [[The speaker shall keep a copy of a newspaper up to date]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Yes, exactly!]] The “Kronen Zeitung” can either see brightly when it writes that teacher service law has been decided today, or it is so – we all know it, only there is almost no one outside – that it was clear yesterday. That means that we could have saved the discussion in plenary today – as in so many points! – because it is quite clear how the vote is going. That's where the question arises: Is that Parliament's task? Is it the task of Parliament, without discussion or with a shadow discussion, simply to wink through what is going to happen? A little second, the “Kronen Zeitung” writes: ‘First government decision: Finally, new teacher service law’. – Now, of course, the “Kronen Zeitung” knows that Parliament is deciding and not the government, but in our real constitution, it is true that the government is actually deciding here with its Members and that Parliament is doing nothing but simply going through these decisions – with the majority in the House. That's where the question arises: Is that good work? Is this the job that deserves a salary increase? This isn't about general political bashing. The Members here cost about €12 million a year and manage, if they do, a budget of over €70 000 million, i.e. €70 billion. Only 1 percent of this total budget exceeds the salaries by the X-fold, which is € 700 million. In other words, if Members were to do good work here, only 1% would do better work, that would be €700 million. At 10 percent we would no longer have government debt! If the Members were 10 percent more economical when they were born, we would no longer have any government debt – or no new debt – that would be € 7 billion each year. That's why the question is: Is it crucial what we deserve here, or is it crucial that we do good work? We do not need cheap Members, we need courageous and good Members – we need that! But what we don't need is Members who are just waving all that comes from the government, because then we can save ourselves the exercise here. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Then we can save the day here. Then we can save the whole of Parliament if it is only to wink through what comes from the government. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: But you already know it...? You're already in committees?- Oh, my God!]] If it's just a matter of finding well all that the government is trying to do here, I'm wondering: Do we have a separation of violence in this country? – There is, as we know, a separation of power between executive and legislative. The government is the executive, we are the legislative – only this is unfortunately mixed. It is mixed in the way that Parliament has practically nothing – and if, then, from the opposition – and will then be buried in the committee, and by the government everything that seems to be misused here is simply decided upon, and ultimately the discussion we are discussing here leads to nothing. There's the question: Is that a good job? Is this a job that deserves a salary increase? – I say: No, that's not a good job that deserves a salary increase! If you only look at the following point today: The lobby of the government groups is not really going to cow's skin. If you see that even Mr. Novotny was brought to the meeting by Mr. Chancellor as a witness to a great policy, you have to say: The same Mr. Novotny wrote a letter to the Ministry of Finance, in which he pointed out that, if something does not happen soon, we have to expect the unimaginable amount of €26 billion in the hypo plea. You have to imagine that! Did I hear a word of that today? Did I perhaps hear a word from you, Mr Pendl, or perhaps from someone from the ÖVP, that this is not mentioned here with a word and, secondly, that we as Parliament, as the control of the government, want finally to inform here? [[Abg. Pendl: We are under service law! By the law of the service!]] We also want a committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Pendl: Nevertheless, we are under service law!]] We as Parliament should want to do that. See if Parliament has a role to play in this matter. Hole of 26 billion € will not have been trying to clear up, then I wonder: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian]] Has this Parliament earned a salary increase? And I say, No, it didn't deserve a salary increase. And that's the point. Mr Pendl, you have a very bad past anyway: They were the one who had so well turned off the Committee of Inquiry here in Parliament at the time. [[Abg. Kickl:... the Faymann!]] They turned it off at the time and also explained in a word why it was turned off. – Normally you have to do exactly the reverse. You'd have to get up here today, stand out and say: I ask a committee of inquiry on the hypo! then you would earn a salary increase – but if not. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's why I'm telling you: Parliament must no longer be the climber for a government that only wants to remain in power. [[Bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] The government is not concerned with bringing Austria forward. We should be talking about it, and that is why we as Members should finally show a little more courage. Then we also deserved a salary increase, and then I would also be the first to agree to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e19962	The next item is the speech by Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e19983	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lugar has started with the question: Has Parliament earned a salary increase? – I may add: We are not only talking about an increase for ministers and representatives of this House, we are also talking about an increase for the public officials in the countries outside, for the mayors and mayors, for municipal councillors – well-known: not all federal states. That means that's a wide spectrum. We have heard that 2.4 percent would be provided by law. The proposal, the SPÖ and the ÖVP's proposal provides for an increase of 1.6%. . I see this in the light of the increase in the pension, I see this in the light of the debate on the increase in public employment, and I see this also in the light of the budgetary situation: From my point of view, these 1.6 percent are justified and are quite acceptable to us in connection with performance. [[Abg. Steinbichler: We live in a performance...!]] Another point on this agenda is the 2013 Service Law Novelle with many individual measures and a number of measures and individual points to be seen in connection with the introduction of administrative jurisdiction. I can take some points out and point them out. The first point concerns the part-time care and, here too, clearly an adjustment of the public service to the private sector. With this part-time care, public staff up to a maximum of three months can be reduced to up to 25 percent employment. This is also an important point for me for the compatibility of family and work. Another point is the care centre. There again, this is a follow-up to the private sector. With this change of law, a leave of leave should be granted under the absence of the benefits. But I am also thinking of accounting as a service time for charges to courts and administrative authorities. This point is increased from half an hour to an entire hour, and this point is particularly true of the executive officials. Then I can add – for me this is an important point – the upgrading of the administrative practice as a training relationship. In addition to financial upgrading, this also ensures improved training, also with the aim of interesting highly qualified and well-trained young people for use in the federal administration. Ladies and gentlemen, all these points have been voted in social partnership. Unfortunately, it has not yet been possible to find a social partnership consensus on the increase in references for public servants in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by thanking all public servants for their work in the public service.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e20020	The next item is the speech by Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e20041	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Robert Lugar, I don't understand anything. I can sign everything you said here in plenary. You've been giving a fire talk for six minutes about how bad it wouldn't be to increase political relations – but then I don't understand: Why did you agree to the increase in political relations in the Committee? This is completely incomprehensible from my point of view. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have already made essential thoughts about the Service Law Novelle 2013 and have also prepared amendments to it. The first request: [[Quoted print version removed]] What's that about? That explains very briefly: This is about the fact that from our point of view, it is unacceptable that a total of € 93 million is collected by the former time soldiers for the compensation fund of pension insurance companies, but in principle these funds only limit the time soldiers, namely with a cover to 30 months. I think it is only fair, fair and cheap to say that this amount has been retained and should then be available for this group of people. Mr Pendl, I think, can't do anything about that. Mr Gerstl, you are very diligent with the requests in the committee, I think you will have nothing against them either. I think that's what the time soldier says, and you can only support it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second request: Amendment tabled by Mr Lausch on the Novelle Service Law 2013 (8 of the Supplements) The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: In Article 1, paragraph 22(a) is replaced by the following: 2 inserted: ‘(2) It shall be waived of a disciplinary notice to the Service Authority if, in the opinion of the Chief General, a teaching or admonition is sufficient. This must be demonstrated to the official. If an official has made a written statement on his teaching or warning, the latter shall be attached directly to the instruction or admonition. A warning or instruction must be demonstrated or deleted after three years of notification to officials and must not lead to any service disadvantage if the official has not committed any further breach of service during that period. The cancellation or removal shall be communicated to the official concerned without delay and shall be demonstrated. The list of contents and numbering of the staff act shall be adapted accordingly.’; That is exactly where the problem lies in practice. One has chosen this path of written teaching and admonition to stop the number of disciplinary procedures, if one can say that is enough in this case, it was a one-time offense of the official. But the problem lies precisely in the fact that after three years, this instruction or admonition will no longer come out of the staff act. That's what you're talking about, the personnel act is numbered, then the numbering would be interrupted, that would be missing, and so on. That just doesn't sound like it. Again the question to the two service rights experts of ÖVP and SPÖ, Gerstl and Pendl: I don't think you can have anything against that either, that would only be fair and just. The punishment has taken place, three years later it has expired, and then it has to come out of the act. I think we can also expect support here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One more moment: This request 41/A by Pendl and Gerstl is actually a good thing, you can only sign it. There are many things inside – care care, care part-times have already been addressed – which we should actually agree with. We would also very much like to agree, but we cannot agree at the third reading, because this “Lex Enns” is packed in there. This is really just an occasion legislation that, from our point of view, is still contrary to the Constitution. That is why we are certainly not taking part in this and will not agree to it at the third reading. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It has already been said by Mr Rädler today: Let's see that we're bringing a consensus together! Let's do something together! Don't do anything bad! Don't do anything bad! – Then we’d say yes, this service law novel is all right, is good, but what does one do? [[Abg. Pendl: Bravo!]] Yeah, uh, bravo! But does one have to make a “Lex Enns” out of which one still violates the Constitution? Do you have to do that? If this had been left out, we would have liked to agree. Unfortunately not. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e20132	The two amendments tabled by Mr Lausch are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e20264	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e20286	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will also comment on both thematic fields, i.e. on the right to serve and on the other hand on the political references. We are dealing with the law of the service only once like the FPÖ – this does not happen to us too often. We also see some positive approaches to this new right of service. It has already been mentioned: Caring for care, part-time care, including the regulations relating to registered partnerships, the Sabbath rule, which is now unlimited, also the consideration of psychologically straining work situations, keyword burnout. The fact that part-time employees have a cost allowance is also positive, but there is our first but. Mr Pendl, in your speech at the Committee meeting, you wanted us to highlight more the critical points so that it is clear why we are positioning ourselves in this way. But the cost of travel is that, on the one hand, an ecological manuscript is to be missed, because there is clearly a disparity between individual traffic – is car – and public transport. This is in times when we should all be aware of the need to invest in more ecological public transport, as opposed to individual transport, actually not to understand. And on the other hand, the accounting arrangements are incredibly administrative. In fact, it is not up to employees to do such administrative tasks. The second area concerns administrative practitioners. Here, of course, it is gratifying that there is an increase in the remuneration, but what we do not understand is why this should apply only to the new from 1.1.2014 onwards and why you did not take the old ones with you. At the latest from April, there will be a situation where administrative practitioners may be sitting next to each other, who may also perform the same activity, and the one that falls under the old regulation and get the lower fee, while the other fall under the new scheme and get the higher fee. This also makes no sense in the organization. The third area, which is of course a problem for me as a constitutional politician and which has also been discussed in great detail by Mr Stefan, is this whole history around the Enns District Court. Yes, one can discuss whether this regulation is still modern in this transitional law, that District Headship Officers and District Court Speakers have to collide so to speak. That has already been discussed. But what I don't understand is why you choose a unconstitutional way here instead of going here and saying, we'll change that. Nor did anyone approach us – I believe, not to any of the other opposition parties that could enforce this constitutional change – and said: How do you see that, we can do that? This sloppy handling of the government's constitution, with unconstitutional non-constitutionality, which some experts have found here, not only by us and the FPÖ, but also by Professor Mayer, for example, we do not want to support, and that is why we will vote against this right of service. Now still to the politicians. Yes, this is a delicate topic that we discuss every year around this season. Actually, with the salary pyramid, you wanted to avoid this being discussed regularly. And yes, actually, it makes sense to create a regulation that does not require discussion every year. But the salary pyramid – which has already been said – has been voted unanimously at that time. If one considers that policy should be assessed differently, then one must discuss the salary pyramid. However, such an initiative by the FPÖ is not known. I've never heard that you've made advances that you want to discuss the salary pyramid in principle. In the light of the background, you have to make the accusation of a certain populism, I think, if you bring in this zero wage round proposal here. [[Abg. Kickl: You're getting rid of it yourself!]] But we are a crisis in the sixth year, and of course it is appropriate that politics says: We too are making our contribution here and will not take advantage of what we decided at the time. It is also perfectly clear to us that you say you stay under the increase for the pensioners. [[Abg. Kickl: This is a bit of a contradiction!]] But I do think that we should be discussing whether you can do with what you regularly contribute here, namely with this zero-paid round discussion, or with what Mr Lugar has contributed today, with the discussion where Parliament's performance is at all, whether you are not both very strongly involved in the Parliament's self-esteem. Politics and democracy are worth something for us, and that is why democracy and politics have something to cost. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are very happy to have the discussion about political salaries, but please, at the place where they are to be conducted, namely the salary pyramid, and not in such a populist way, as you are doing right now.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e20370	As the last speaker to speak, Mrs Mlinar is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e20391	Mr President. Minister! Members of the Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Spoštovane lady in gospodje! After an in-depth debate in the NEOS-LIF club on the proposed amendment to service law, our club has come to believe that we are carrying the proposed novels, since we believe that the proposed amendments, as presented by Mr Musiol, are essential and sensible. However, we also believe that the solution in relation to the Court of Justice of the Enns District Court is a real mistake in beauty and that this is a kind of constitutional legislation that does not exist. We should actually find a different solution in this respect à la longue. We also agree to the request regarding the adjustment of political relations for the calendar year 2014 by the 1.6 percent discussed in accordance with the ASVG. The reason for this on our part is that the contributions of politicians have not been adjusted in the last five years and this actually corresponds to a real loss of value of 10 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: But last year!]] This does not correspond to our picture of a politician, especially since for us the decisive argument is... – I immediately come to it, Mr Kickl. [[Abg. Kickl: Now I don't know myself anymore!]] The crucial argument is that the involvement of politicians in Austria corresponds to the European average, but not to the promotion of parties. [[Abg. May. Stefan: You always have to be in the dark of Europe! Let us pursue the European average.]] That is why I am presenting a motion for a resolution here, and that will not be a great surprise: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to send a draft law to the National Council as soon as possible, according to which the (effective) valorisation of the promotion of the parties is suspended for a period of four years (from 1.1.2015). The statement of reasons is known: Public Party funding in Austria is the second highest in all OECD countries and the highest in Europe per capita. In the course of the reform of the year 2012, the annual party funding at the federal level was actually almost doubled. [[Abg. Rädler: This is the promotion of the hazelsteiner!]] Not really! [[Abg. Vilimsky: You have no other!]] That's right? All right, if you get it. I don't think so. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Pay it back!]] In view of the excessive budget deficit, it is an obvious measure to reduce at least the increase in this item of expenditure. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Pay it to “Light in the Dark”! Do it!]] It's a proposal. The last time we put this proposal in place, the whole opposition carried it along. There was an application covering a period of five years. Today I make a request which covers only a four-year period. And I would ask all of you, both the opposition parties and the government's parties, to support this request. I think it would be a good sign before Christmas for citizens and taxpayers. Make us all a gift! – Hvala lepa!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e20516	The motion for a resolution just tabled by Mrs Mlinar is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e20573	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft Service Law Novelle 2013 in 8 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Lausch, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional motion for a resolution on which there is a request for a roll-call vote. In addition, there is a desire for separate vote by Mr Lausch. I shall therefore vote first of all on the parts concerned by the supplementary proposals mentioned and on the request for separate votes, taking into account the request for a vote on them and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Lausch, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new paragraph 22a into Article 1. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. The Members of Parliament have tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of new points 40a and 41a into Article 1. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. After we have recently carried out a nominal vote, I do not want to make any further announcement of the provisions relating to the national vote. I would ask Mr Zanger as a writer to begin with the name call; Mr Buchmayr will replace him later. Please, Mr. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e20654	The vote will end. The officials of the house will now make their votes under the supervision of the scribes. I am interrupting the session for this purpose for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e20696	I'll start the interrupted session again. Before I announce the outcome of the vote on this item on the agenda, I shall first announce the following: In the final vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues on the abolition of the Ministry of Justice's right of guidance to the public prosecutor on item 1 of the agenda, two cards were issued with the impression "Dr. Johannes Hübner". [[Oje-Rufe.]] The correct result is therefore: Members cast: 171; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 42, No votes: 128, invalid: 1. The difference is on the vote result without influence. [[See also p. 177.]] The result of the current vote. Members cast: 163; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 54, No votes: 109. The amendment tabled by Mr Kunasek, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. The names of the delegates are given in accordance with § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, and indicating their voting behaviour, incorporated into the Stenographic Protocol. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Aslan; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek, Doppler; Fuchs; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Haider, Hauser, Höbart; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun, Kunasek; Lauss, lights; Maurer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; fungus, Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Walter, Rossmann; Schellenbacher, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinhauser; themesl; Vilimsky; Walser, Willi, Windbühler-Sushill, Worm Peter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted in ‘No’: Alm, Antoni, Aubauer; Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Diesner-Wais, Dietrich, strike; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hable, Hagen, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Loacker, Lopatka, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Mayer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Muchich, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Pock, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rudas; Schenk, Scherak, Schiedler, Schmuckenschlager, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinbichler, Strasser, Strollz; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vogl; Refusal torpher, Wenninger, Wimmer, Minzig, Wittmann, Wöinger, Wurm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e20943	We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 21 C. 1a as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who agree to this part to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act on the Restriction of Contracts of Official Officials and the Federal Reference Act into 9 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Stefan has tabled an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law and the said amendment concern a Federal Constitutional Act, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Mag. Mr Stefan, colleagues, have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 1 and Art. 2 introduced. Whoever comes in for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, the required two-thirds majority has not been reached, the amendment is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I also expressly note here the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Mlinar, ladies and gentlemen, on the suspension of the valorization of the promotion of the party. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[20:52:22]] 6. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (2D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the 2008 Financial Balance Act and the Civil Fund Act in 1996 (10 d.a.) 7. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (3D.B._Other Organiser Agreement under Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the Upper Austria on the flood protection project ‘Eferdinger Becken’ (11 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21072	We now come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First Mrs. Dr. Fekter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21100	Mr President. High house! Due to the flood in Upper Austria in June 2013 the The Federal Government and the Upper Austria agree to ensure rapid financing and implementation of the flood protection projects for the Eferdinger Basin. At present there is only a very limited flood protection for this area. Work on the timely preparation of a general project for the Eferdinger Becken, in cooperation with Upper Austria and the Federal Government and in particular the BMVIT, has already been initiated. Then: We have also decided to prefer these measures by means of the economic measures we have decided to take. Around 60 square kilometres of surface area could thus be protected from floods in the future. At currently estimated total costs of up to €250 million in the period from 2014 to 2020, the 50 % federal share is € 125 million. That is why the budgetary coverage of the federal part of the funds of the disaster fund is provided for, and we now decide on this cover. Flood protection is to be divided into two areas and implemented in a differentiated manner. In the first step, the Eferding Basin will be set aside in order to create a large reserve area, which is both water-efficient and ecologically important there and is intended to minimise economic damage in the future. The second step in this active flood protection is then those measures – such as dams or mobile elements – that are intended to protect people from damage to their bodies, lives and property. I believe that it is justified to help people quickly in this area, which has so far had little flood protection. The implementation of planned measures should then be carried out in an Article 15a agreement with the Upper Austria country, which is financed by the disaster fund. This aid, I think, has been considered useful by all the political groups here in the House, and I thank all the political groups for having a positive or unanimous decision in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second part concerns the drought that has caused a great deal of damage to agriculture this year. We also make money available for this. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially the help for the damage of drought has led me to the sage: We don't leave the farmers in the rain! Now I know, everyone understands this phrase, and it is inappropriate in connection with the drought. Nevertheless, I would like to say: We don't leave the farmers in the rain!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21151	The next item is the speech by Mr Kirchgatter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21172	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As the former Federal Minister and current Member Maria Fekter mentioned, it is about special resources for sustainable flood protection in the Eferdinger Basin in Upper Austria and, on the other hand, about compensation for extraordinary yield losses in Austrian agriculture. It is true that some farmers had to lose up to 90 percent, and the support of the small farms is therefore an issue of existence. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the pictures of the damage and destruction caused by the devastating flood in June of this year. Year, to the floods. Evacuations had to be carried out in the Eferdinger Basin, it had to be rescued with boats and helicopters. Then, in July, an extreme heat came: 43 degrees still at 19 o'clock; and then came an extreme drought. All of this will probably be going around in the heads for a long time. In these difficult days, the Austrians have once again proved their willingness to help. The competence of the Austrian federal army and the Austrian firearms in such tasks is at the highest level, not only in Austria, but in Europe and beyond. Many volunteers helped. A variety of fire brigades from all the communities of my district were in use for days. In part, they have cooperated and helped up to their physical limits. I would like to thank you at this point. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Eferdinger Basin, where 30,000 people live, is not comparable to other Austrian Danube landscapes and is a special challenge for flood protection. Already next year, 2014 – the preliminary work is already under way – will begin to achieve the greatest possible protection. The funds available for the decision today – 50 percent of the federal government, 30 percent of the country – will do so. Thanks to Federal Minister Doris Bures, but also the Ministry of Finance! However, I would also like to point out that the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” has just written today that the mayors of Eferdinger Becken expressly note that people in this area are very sensitive, especially in the areas of destabilisation and protection. The mayors speak of a further development of the Regensburg Treaty, i.e. the cross-border measures. The mayor's concerns must be taken into account. And the petition, which includes twelve points – it was handed over to the head of state Josef Pühringer, but also to the future head of state, Reinhold Entholzer, – points out that, in particular, it also places great importance on the fact that all citizens are treated equally in the case of flood protection and that there are no inconsistencies particularly in the communities, which is closely observed. These twelve points must be taken into account; I think that is also our task from federal policy. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to say that disaster protection in Austria is taken very seriously that the efforts and financial use of BMVIT, the targeted measures have proved very successful. I would also like to stress that my colleague, SPAE National Councillor Petra Bayr, pointed out in the Committee the global development of natural disasters through climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, I think all political groups are invited to support the people who are in such situations – and that is timely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21240	Mr Mag. Haider is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21261	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! High house! As an Aschacher, in June, how houses in my home community and in many other neighboring communities with us in the Eferdinger Becken were partially flooded by floodwater until the first floor covering. I am therefore really pleased and thank you very, very much for this advanced unanimous decision. Only those who help quickly help twice, I said this on Thursday at the Budget Committee meeting in which we have prepared this decision. As early as June, the Federal Government promised this 50 percent grant to the €250 million of costs for future flood protection already estimated by the experts at that time, this 50 percent interest of the federal government, which we now really decide to make. This enabled the Land of Upper Austria to set up the Flood Advisory Board for the protection project “Eferdinger Becken”, which I also have the honour to hold. This advisory board of the Upper Austrian Government has already taken part in early October, and has already established the first settlement zones – 24 square kilometres – where the experts agree, where there is only desiccation in question, where there is no possibility of technical flood protection. People there really need to be safe about how things go on with them. And they need a perspective. That is why it is so important that decisions have really been made quickly that resources are available quickly so that people can also plan. The Flood Advisory Board has already set the timetable for the discharges: By the end of 2015, the people living in this settlement zone will have the opportunity to accept the offer. They are replaced by 80 percent of the value of their property, their home – the value of the flood: 50 percent of the federal government, 30 percent of the country Upper Austria. They then have time until the end of 2020 to really tear their house off. It has to be torn down – to say this here too – up to a meter deep below the earth, so that you can even cross it with a deep plow. There it is said to create room for retention for the Danube, which it recovers in this way. By the end of 2015, the technical project, which concerns the completion of this study, where one can, by means of mobile protective walls and the like, protect people from further floods, and then decide where to implement and, of course, finance any technical measures. What we are doing here today is the first step – a good step, the most important step – to provide the financial resources so that people in this area have a perspective. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21309	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21331	Madam President. Dear Secretary of State! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We will support both legislative proposals. These two areas are very important to us. One is the increase in funds for the disaster fund. The situation in June 2013 was dramatic. The flood has partly surprised people at night. There are a lot of affected families. There are very many farmers affected. It is also due to the change in weather to the drought period which followed. Of course, it is necessary to provide assistance when it is necessary. And this is guaranteed in this form. The Article 15a Agreement between the Land of Upper Austria and the Federal Government on the flood protection project “Eferdinger Becken” is a very important point, it is a very important project that we are also leading in Upper Austria with the environmental sector and our environmental councillor Rudi Anschober in this form. It is important to us to take the appropriate steps. We will also support this. At this point, however, it should also be said that the consequences are consequences. These are the consequences of climate change, whether the change in the overall situation is taking place, which are more and more dramatic. And the costs are getting higher. And precisely these follow-up costs must be avoided in the coming years and decades. One must invest in the energy transition, in climate protection and in climate protection. And that's exactly what's missing; it's missing in the government programme today. Therefore: As important as it is to support this flood protection project, it is my urgent call for action to be taken here, for the protection of the environment, for the protection of the climate. This is necessary, because all studies also show that it is 10 times more efficient for people to take precautions. This will cost less than afterwards to repair the damage. Now it is necessary to put in place the appropriate measures there – Mr Haider presented them briefly. There are two parts: on the one hand, the settlement project, where especially in cooperation with the citizens, with the citizens, with the families on the ground the talks are conducted, all on the basis of voluntaryness. This is very important in this form. And, of course, what technical measures can be put in place: Retention basins, regeneration measures and also technical flood protection in the form of dams, of mobile dams. This will be ensured. Finally, I would like to thank the officials, the politicians and politicians who, in this form at the federal level, have contributed to the rapid and rapid decision of this project and we already have it on the table today. This is a really great support, because, of course, in such a difficult situation: Whoever helps quickly helps twice.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21376	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21397	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear watchers on the televisions! We by the Stronach team will vote in favour of both proposals, as in the Committee. In these cases, our sincere participation belongs to all the injured, all the house-owners, all the farmers and all the traders who were surprised and affected by this flood disaster. I support everything that has been said so far, what action is being taken. But I also appeal to comply with the operating regulations. I think that's very important. I was upset that one week after this flood disaster Already sediments have been tipped back into the reservoirs. I think that's a shield citizen's stroke. We also need to ensure that the operator regulations are complied with. It's also about the drought aid. We know what the drought meant for the farmers concerned. They already had to feed the winter stocks in the summer and now have to buy very expensive feed, with cattle prices falling by 10 to 15 percent and also pig prices. That's where we know that the cost shear will of course double. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We will support both proposals. I also thank you for your solidarity.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21446	Mr. State Secretary Mag. Danninger has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21467	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Summer is over, so is the heat. Hardly anyone can remember the weather caprioles of last summer. In order to support farmers after the drought in the summer of 2013, an aid package of €50 million is expected, while the countries concerned also contribute at least the same amount. In total, support for farmers of up to €100 million, federal government and countries can be provided together. This will allow for the purchase of routing, rye substitutes and, at least, other vegetable substitutes, as well as exceptional yield losses in certain crops. Emergency sales of farm animals are prevented, the long-term supply of food to consumers of domestic quality is ensured and a contribution is made to the conservation of the agricultural structure of Austria. Allow me now to come to the opposite of Dürre, namely to the flood, to say more precisely: to the flood protection project ‘Eferdinger Becken’. The Federal Government and the Upper Austria agreed to finance and implement the Eferdinger Becken flood protection project due to the Danube high water in June 2013. Upper Austria was hit by a devastating Danube high water in the summer of 2013. The Eferdinger Basin is located west of Linz. The large basin landscape represents an important living and economic area. Currently there is only a very limited flood protection for the Eferdinger Basin. Work has already begun on the timely preparation of a general project to ensure flood protection for the Eferdinger Basin in cooperation between the Land of Upper Austria and the Federal Government. Around 60 square kilometres of surface area could be protected from floods by this project in the future. The total cost of up to €250 million in the period from 2014 to 2022 amounts to € 125 million. Budgetary coverage of the federal share is provided by the provision of funds from the disaster fund. At the same time, the country Upper Austria commits itself, for its part ensure the financing under the Water Construction Promotion Act, which guarantees the implementation of the flood protection project. Ladies and gentlemen! Alternatives do not exist, as a deduction of flood damage already occurred in the medium term would mean an increased budget burden. Since 2007 195 million euros have been invested in flood protection in Upper Austria. It should be noted that flood damage in 2002 amounted to €500 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21518	Mr Hable has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21540	Madam President. High house! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Estimated citizens in front of the screens! I also come from Upper Austria. I know the situation very well on the ground. The extent of the floods in the Eferding Basin was unimaginable, for example, the Lakes of Feldkirch. For all those who do not know them, this is a recreation area, these are several bathing lakes in the Eferding Basin. There was nothing more to see, totally flooded, no more lakes, only one more flood. I also saw the flood in Linz. I looked at the floods from the Nibelung Bridge. This is the bridge that connects the centre of Linz and Urfahr, the northern district of Linz. It is impressive, but also frightening at the same time, when you see how this new mobile flood protection, which has protected the Old Urfahr district, works. There you look down from the bridge onto this mobile dam. On the right Side is old-age, all of them still have their feet in the dry. And on the left side, up to the top of the mobile dam, the Danube runs by with an incredible force. We can therefore support these government proposals to increase the resources of the disaster fund and the flood protection project “Eferdinger Becken”. We will support these government proposals, these initiatives. However, I would like to make one more point. What we do not understand and what we cannot support is the way in which the related financial policy works. The disaster fund will be increased by €100 million. The measures of flood protection in the Eferdinger Basin cost € 250 million. And then it is believed that Members – I went into this naïve belief in the Committee on Budgets – get information that they get the necessary basis of decision on the table, why this money is necessary, why the disaster fund should be increased by €100 million, how much remains inside, how many reserves have been formed and why exactly this sum is needed. It would be expected to find out what concrete measures to be taken in the field of flood protection. As we have heard, nothing is clear. This will not be discussed until the next few years. But what you do first: You throw 250 million € on it and you don't know what to do. So, honestly, if you go to a bank with such documents, you won't get 100 € as a credit. And here. hundreds of millions of euros will be spent without real decision-making. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If our financial policy looks that way, it is no wonder that this government with a tax rate of 45 percent does not find the outcome. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] As has been said, we are taking part in these government proposals. We will agree because they are necessary because they are necessary for the people in the Eferding Basin. Where we will certainly not go along in the future, that is this kind of a blank check policy. It is precisely this separation between responsibility for expenditure and responsibility for revenue that leads to inefficiency. That's exactly this dividing line that's simmering billions of euros. Summary: NEOS says yes to flood protection. We say yes to a quick help for the affected people in the Eferding Basin. But NEOS as – this is also our self-understanding – lawyer of taxpayers in this country says no to this kind of budget policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21601	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21622	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! With both templates we help families who are really threatened in their existence: on the one hand, with the help of drought, if you take the rural area. Right-wing plants are actually in a double mill. On the one hand, feed prices are rising in such a situation, on the other hand, the selling prices of animals are falling, for example of cattle. It is therefore important that we decide today that this will be notified in the EU immediately and that the corresponding aid will come to the farmers as soon as possible next year. On the other hand, it is about flood protection in the Eferdinger Basin, which is €250 million. It has already been mentioned: On the one hand, there will be areas of relocation, on the other hand, technical flood protection, where you always have to hold, 100 percent flood protection can and will not exist. It is important for the people concerned that in the relevant ministries and the Office of the Upper Austrian Government there are really professional officials who support them. Mr Hable, just one sentence on your comments: Personally, I am glad that this financial framework stands. This will ensure that measures can be taken in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21656	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21677	Madam President. Dear remaining members of the government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the government template concerning the 2008 financial compensation law and the 1996 Civil Fund Act. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! 2013: a bad year. Floods in June and exceptional, long-lasting drought in July led to major damage, especially in agriculture. There have been losses in yield up to total failures in agricultural crops. There have been significant losses in the field of green land in the second and third cuts, and in the field of arable farming there have been significant losses in yield. There was massive damage throughout the federal territory. The 100 million € aid package, each half of which has been provided by the federal government and the countries, is a necessary emergency measure. I should like to say one thing, ladies and gentlemen, to the disaster fund: In many personal discussions with affected citizens, it is heard that there is no and in no way any damage, nor can there always be any comprehensible handling of the damage collection. We demand emergency aid from the liberals for the farmers concerned and the others concerned, because it is only if you help quickly that is really helpful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21719	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft federal law amending the 2008 financial compensation law and the 1996 Civil Fund Act, including title and entry into 2 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to a sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Request by the Budget Committee to approve the conclusion of the present agreement between the Federal Government and the Upper Austria on the flood protection project ‘Eferdinger Becken’ pursuant to Article 15a B-VG in 3 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:23:42]] 8. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the financial statements for 2012 (III-2 d.b.) and on the Financial statements for the year 2012 (Proposal for a comparison of estimates as at 31. (III-1 d.a.) (12 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21794	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21823	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Today we have to decide on the 2012 financial statements and the 2013 forecast comparison scheme. If you've been dealing with these figures a little bit, then you can see from these figures that a budget hole can be created in the near future. The debate on the budget hole has already accompanied us in the last few weeks. Of course, it has not yet been done, and we have also discussed thoroughly what the causes are. I would like to comment a little on the figures that can already be seen at the end of the 2012 financial year. There are some numbers already very worrying, there are already the alarm bells ringing. From 2011 to 2012, the tax and tax rate has risen again, and from my point of view, it is pretty slow to reach the end of the burdenability of the population. The federal financial debt has also increased by 4.1 percent to €201.4 billion. And if one considers that the debt of ÖBB, ASFINAG and BIG still needs to be added, the interest rate burden will also be much higher. In particular, three percentage rates are too high: on the one hand, the federal contribution to pension insurance, which has increased by 8.4 percent, on the other hand, the expenditure for the federal staff in general, i.e. the pension contribution by 11.6 percent, and the expenditure for schools by 10 percent. Despite the drop in the number of students, the number of teachers has increased. If I could now say that the level of education has increased, there would at least be a reason for the cost to rise. President-in-Office of the Council Moser also clearly stated in the Committee that, without structural reforms in all local authorities, the budget cannot be balanced in the future. There are, of course, some points that you have to deal with. I would just like to mention three now because the speaking time is not enough for more. In any case, it's important: There is a need for greater transparency in the communities. We need a uniform accounting system in all local authorities, so that there is finally comparability. A second point that should be considered is to give the countries tax authority, because those who spend the money should also be responsible for the revenue, then we often spare ourselves this wretched cow trade, which takes place in connection with the financial compensation. The heads of state must then consider how they take the money. In my opinion, the best example is Switzerland, where there is a similar model, where the cantons themselves collect taxes, and interestingly, the cantons that collect least taxes are the most successful. Of course, this can only be associated with the instrument of direct democracy. The last thing we urgently need to put in place in order to prevent these two or three threats in the field of support is a functioning database of transparency. I know we've been discussing a transparency database for a long time at that time, but unfortunately it's stuck half way. When I repeat the debate on the government programme, I can only quote ÖGB Presidents Foglar, who said that this is a policy of small steps and not of big throws. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If nothing changes, I can only say: There is a little spirit in front of the courage to change. The preservation of the grain is a matter of reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21887	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21909	Madam President. Mrs and Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The closure of the accounts offers an important means of control, and we are well known to have discussed it very intensively in the Committee. And in order to comply with the time limits today, honourable Members Podgorschek and I have agreed today: He did not address the most encouraging points, and I can add them a little. Since so much is the talk about big throw, I have to say: It is noted that there is already a lot of throws today, namely large accusations, not to say, of pre-conceptions. I think there are some positive points to be reported here, and I would also like to mention something positive at this point, as Matthias Strolz always does. As the President of the Court of Auditors is currently present, I think we should be grateful to the Court of Auditors for the excellent work that lies at the heart of this and has made it very easy for us in the Committee to deal with the clearance of accounts. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of SPÖ and NEOS-LIF.]] I mean, we all know the numbers here. I would like to remind you of two positive things. After all, the deficit was €4.2 billion lower than estimated. And even though Maria Fekter is no longer in office in the hall and is no longer in office, I still think she can be thanked for the good budget. After all, the general government deficit of 2.3 percent of GDP has also remained significantly below the reference value of 3 percent. We could still spread a lot of numbers here. Of course it should also be noted that expenditure has increased, that has already been addressed by my previous speaker. Here too, we know some reasons, some special effects, such as the provision of funds for financial stability, a subject which was very important for the economy. Health care costs have increased, including for the ÖBB. Something is clear to all of us, I think: Of course, reforms need to be made, especially when we keep in mind the figures and note that almost 35 percent of the benefits have been spent in 2012 and this trend will continue to rise as it looks. However, today, as I believe, the right time is to point out that the government programme in those areas which I have referred to here provides for the necessary reforms. I mention the topics of pensions, ban on speculation for all local authorities, budgetary reform, simplification of income tax law and wage conversion et cetera, et cetera. In fact, I would like to throw a large part of my planned speech on board. I have undertaken to make you a proposal for a reform which we can address together, namely opposition parties and government parties. It is our common goal, as I believe, that more and more Austrians are not ashamed of our politics, but are quite the contrary and are concerned with politics. This includes a decent political culture. Just one day after the new government's fishing, I think we could hold back and give the new Federal Government a chance. I believe that we all, of course not only the members of the opposition, but also the representatives of the government, will accompany the government very critically. We will demand transparency from the Federal Government. But we may and should also be able to acknowledge her if a good performance is achieved. The Austrians, I believe, will very well honor such a degree of political culture.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21970	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e21991	Madam President. High house! 2.5 percent deficit is 2.5 percent deficit, and that is no reason to break out in joy! 2.5 percent deficit is a burden for the next generation. This year, too, shows us that we have a task of fighting the debt that we have to go down to a zero deficit. I would like to mention two things from 2012. First of all, it was the year Austria was downgraded by Standard & Poor’s in January 2012. Second, it's 1. Stability law, which came into force at the time, in a hustle and bustle, has been passed in a hurry that seeks its like and which should never again exist in this House. At that time, when I was only “legislator” under quotation marks, I had to do this law on Saturday night, on 31. Read March. Then on the morning of the Federal President, in the afternoon it was published on the Internet, and the next day, on Sunday, it was put into effect at 0 o'clock, and on Monday, the 2. April, there was not even a consolidated version. So this billing should remind us that such Husch-Puff actions should never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22019	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22040	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Values Watchers on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! It's the first time I've been standing in front of you today, and I'm allowed to say something. It's about the 2012 Federal Accounts. A budget is good if nothing is left out and if nothing needs to be added. A budget is good if the balance is right when the balance between the challenges is right and the opportunities. So the 2012 budget on which it is now was a good budget, because despite floods and despite Hypo Alpe-Adria, we were able to do so within the Maastricht criteria. To balance, that is to say, within the given 3 percent, as mentioned above, at 2.48 percent. Although the economic crisis caught us at a time when it was worst, we did not only keep course, but also receive workers and jobs. As a new Member of Parliament, for me the budget and living democracy have a common component, namely compensation. It is the right of an opposition to criticize the budget. But if you criticize, please stick to the facts. The budget execution was better than planned. First of all, the 2012 budget held by social Austria. Secondly, Forecasts that lead to the future are particularly difficult. The truth, however, is that we have prevented mass unemployment as in Athens and Madrid. We have been European champions and pioneers over the largest period of time, with regard to the handling of unemployment. Of course, this has also happened in the federal accounts, I would also like to have a positive primary balance, but life as well as the economy is not a wish concert. It's not always going to follow what I'd like, but you have to go after it, as it is. My deepest conviction is: rather a budget with social benefits than unemployed without hopes, dear children with a future and investment in our youngest ones than senseless savings at all corners and ends. As a widower and thus I would also like to be an individual educator of three children that every mother, but also every father, can go in Karenz, for that is equal rights to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, we do not simply agree with the 2012 federal accounts, but we agree with the basis for the continuation of a social policy in our common Austria. As a new Member of Parliament, let me briefly explain to you my understanding of policy and budget. I am for a balanced budget, I am for a balanced society and I am for an Austria where all children have the same opportunities, everyone with their incomes finds the income and the pensions are secured. However, this also includes the fair distribution of tax revenue as well as property tax and other things. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Sir Peter Ustinov was once asked if he was a humanist. He answered: I try every day! – I think we should all take an example of this in this House. I promise I'll stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22113	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22135	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The closure of the accounts, as it is available to us and the forecast comparison of March of this year, would actually be worth much more attention than now, at about three-quarters of a decade in the evening, to be discussed with tired Members after a long debate on the Government Declaration. Why is that so? – The financial statements are in themselves, as I can agree with Mr Podgorschek’s statements, an important management tool, an important management instrument and, despite his importance, is being discussed far too little, because it is also constantly looked at in the public at what is being put into budgeting in the individual areas. But by much less people or with much less interest, what comes out at the end of the day is looked at. In fact, we have taken a step forward in the direction of effectiveness with the new budgetary law. But that's not all. Nevertheless, I believe that we should strengthen our efforts here in this House – and we must take our own noses – to discuss the billing more carefully, to discuss earlier – this is also a concern that I always point to – than it has been in the past and is the case today, because in a few weeks the first results of 2013. So much introductory, and now to the billing itself. In a short time, I only have the opportunity to look at a few key figures. It is certainly important to highlight and to highlight positively that this financial statement with a deficit of 2.5 percent has remained below the budgeted result. Budgeted was 3.1%. But if you compare this with 2011, you can see that the budget deficit of the general state has not changed. It has remained unchanged at 2.5 percent. And why was that so? – This has an important reason, these are the banks in Austria. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly!]] Banks have raised this budget deficit to a level of € 2.6 billion, which is 0.9 percentage points of GDP. If that had not been the case, we would not have had a marode banking landscape – these state-owned and partially state-owned banks – then we would have actually landed at a budget deficit of 1.6 percent. By the way, this will also be quite similar for 2013. Also, as we are essentially estimated to be close to a budget deficit, I say that we are below 2% of GDP. And if I look at how much the banks will swallow, that will be almost 1% of GDP. In reality, we could even slip under the 1-percent mark without banks in 2013. I don't think that's excluded. So I would like to stress this positively once again. The main responsibility for this is the budget implementation – that is the right one – the strict budget implementation. This has been taken into account, and there has also been a great deal of action under the new budgetary law. Secondly, however, it was the better result from countries and communities, which must also be pointed out. And the third point I would like to mention here is the usual budget upholstery on interest payments. Because only €1.2 billion of this better budget implementation is due to the over budgeted interest. And I would ask Mr Moser and the Court of Auditors, as I have already said in the Committee, to devote themselves to this division 58 once more and to look at it: What is the basis of budgeting? And: Is that solid? – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22171	I call Mr Hable. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make three minutes' remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22195	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Estimated citizens in front of the screens! Unfortunately, I cannot say much about the 2012 federal accounts – not because there was nothing to say, but because de facto we have little time to speak. And this is remarkable, because the proposals we are talking about can be taken away at any time. By simple majority, any budget estimate can be erased from the table. Interesting, Dear Ladies and gentlemen, is the execution, is what has actually been done, and not what has just been announced! But we're not talking about that. This is just an item on the agenda under the heading “remote” and, as we have heard, I have 3 minutes to comment on it. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: But this is political groups!]] [[Further calls.]] This is quite characteristic of the way in which we make financial policy in Austria. If we want to take fiscal policy seriously, if we want to take this Parliament seriously, we need a detailed budget debate today and here. We need to discuss what was done with the taxpayer's money in 2012. - All right, let's not do it. But we're sure we're going to stay there on the NEOS side so that this will be different in the future. Let me pick out a point that will certainly be taking us even longer in the next few years, the Hypo Alpe-Adria. For this purpose, the federal accounts of 2012 do not find much – the capital increase of €500 million – and you wonder: Why have there been no precautions for the foreseeable losses? Didn't they know her? Didn't you count on that? On the contrary! I have here a record note of a meeting in the 2010 Ministry of Finance before me, and there are two things to read out: First of all, how chaotic the emergency nationalization happened in 2008. It seems that one has only been afraid of the pleite, has been pulled over the table by the Bavaria and, in fact, has not known what is actually signed there. And second, one knew by 2010 at the latest which barrel without soil one has not been nationalized here. And what can be found in the federal accounts 2012 again? - Nothing! No precautions! Just as little can be found in the federal financial framework. You're driving eye-catching against the wall. Dear Members of the Federal Government! - I'll be right there. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – If the economic forecasts do not turn in a wondrous way, the balanced budget 2016 will not go out. The reason for this is quite simple, it consists of three words: Hypo Alpe-Adria. In this context, I would like to ask you: Have courage! Do you also have the courage to have a responsible budget policy? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Time is over!]] Looks like there's no such thing as this. For the barrel without soil Hypo Alpe-Adria we need a solution. You also have the invitation from us to put a solution on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22263	Mr President, I have given you almost a minute beyond your speaking time. [[Abg. Kickl: We'll pull them off the next time!]] The speaking time was unanimously decided at the beginning of this meeting. The next item is Mr Eßl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22297	Madam President. My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! Even if the Greens are already tired, I think we should also discuss the federal accounts in freshness in the last speech. Mr Rossmann has, of course, already complained again about a so-called upholstery in this federal accounts. Just a few weeks ago, we heard different sounds than were slandered by the Federal Financial Framework Act, because the figures were to be presented insufficiently and too pessimisticly. Dr. Hable complained about the speaking time. His group now has more than twice as much speaking time per representative available to the larger groups. If you do not agree with your 3 minutes, I ask you to discuss this with your clubman – I see that is already happening – then next time you will have more available. As far as the figures are concerned, the federal accounts are themselves an acceptable result. Yes, it is clear that we have a deficit of €4.19 billion, but we are much better in the result than in the proposal. I should really like to thank Mrs Fekter, who really worked very, very well. If you know the framework conditions, the economic conditions this year 2012, then, I think, Mrs Finanzminister – now out of service and now colleague – is due to you, Mrs. Finanzminister – thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This result has been achieved despite a weak economic situation, because a fine budgetary discipline has taken place, in the ministries, as well as in the countries and in the municipalities. Granted, the interest rate was also low, but I would like to stress that the consolidation path has worked, and that is why revenue has also been better. I am convinced that 2013 will also produce a much more favourable result than foreseen in the proposal, because it has been stressed. Nevertheless, there are of course also measures where we need to be successful. I call that the Federal Government's share of the cost of pensions, I call the interest for the debt of the state, I call the administrative costs. If you make the Federal contribution to pension insurance, the Republic will make a net contribution of €8.58 billion in pensions. Directly – Mr Podgorschek has already mentioned this – for pensions of federal officials, Your Majesty's administration, net expenditure for pensions amounts to €7.27 billion. This, in total, makes up a quarter of the federal income, and that is a scale that must not be neglected. We know that 39 percent of men and 22 percent of women retire due to illness. But even those who go into retirement – under quotation marks – do not reach the statutory retirement age at Weitem. In the last ten years, the retirement age has not changed, but life expectancy has increased by three years over this period. That's why, I think, it's obvious where you have to start in the next time: Net expenditure on pensions accounts for 24 percent of the revenue. If I still charge the interest rate – that's again 10 percent – we're more than a third. And if I also charge the administrative burden, we are It is not possible to put in any shape any more than half of the revenue already allocated to it, and it is not possible to use these resources in the form of policy-making measures. That is why the goals of the new Federal Government are: to lift the actual retirement age, zero deficit from 2016 onwards, and we also need secure finances in the future. This is a concern of the government, which is a concern of the new Minister of Finance Dr Spindelegger, and we will be very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22358	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, has now spoken. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22380	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! For me personally, it is a pleasure that, in addition to the government statement on today's agenda, the federal accounts are also dealt with, because this gives the opportunity to do something already at the beginning of this legislative period, which the Court of Auditors has done over and over the past few years, namely to point out that economical, economic and appropriate use of public funds is essential in order to be able to fulfil the state tasks permanently in the future. In fact, this requires that the structures be adapted to the needs and developed further. It is therefore my concern to draw attention to the following points in the current discussion: Austria has announced itself nationally and internationally to sustainable stable finances. Austria – federal government, countries, municipalities and social security companies – needs action. The EU has also pointed out in the annual growth report that Austria must work towards its medium-term budgetary objective. The annual structural adjustment should be improved, with the overlap of competence between the federal, regional and local levels as well as inconsistencies in the EU's financing and expenditure skills as a challenge to be addressed. Austria – and I believe that this is an issue for all Members of Parliament – has committed itself to developing the European governance mechanisms in the course of the financial and budgetary crisis at European level. In accordance with the six-pack decision, Austria has committed itself to implementing the Fiscal Framework Directive and its accounting, statistics and forecasts with a view to the completeness and coherence of national budgets. There is therefore a need for action: The need for action to introduce coherent accounting rules, to introduce integrated data collection and data processing procedures – a need for action that has been repeatedly addressed by Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter as such, and the Court's efforts towards the harmonisation of accounting have always been part of the joint discussions. Considering the federal accounts and the budget implementation presented in them, it should be noted that 2012 – which has also been addressed in the context of the debate – in Austria real growth has been 1.5 percent higher than in the euro area, plus 0.9 percent higher. Nominal growth was within the framework of the value set out in the Federal Estimate. The number of self-employed persons increased by 1.4 percent, the current account balance was 1.6 percent higher than in 2011, the general government deficit was 2.5 percent lower than the three-percent mark. At the same time, however, it should also be noted that total government debt has increased to € 227 billion, or 74 percent of GDP, a plus compared to the year 2011 of € 9 billion 421 million. From 2009 to 2012 alone, total debt increased by €36 billion. The general budget expenditure of €72 billion was €880 million over that of the previous year. 25.7 percent or € 18.7 billion of total expenditure has been spent by the Federal Government in subheadings 22 and 23 for pensions. Net contribution to pension insurance increased by more than € 1 billion compared to 2011. 57.8 percent of net tax revenue is spent on pensions and interest. The primary balance was negative both on the side of the federal government and on the side of the state as a whole. The burden of future financial years amounts to € 155 billion, the liabilities € 117 billion, the tax rate increased to 42.7 percent, the crack between revenue and expenditure was 2.3 percent. Structural reforms are therefore needed. This is also illustrated by the financial framework decided by you for the years 2014 to 2017. If you look at heading 2 – labour, social, health, family – the expenditure in this area rose by an average of 3.81 percent per year in 2009 to 2012. In the years 2013 to 2017, they are expected to rise by 2.40 percent on average, i.e. only two thirds of the current percentage, although the labour market will be burdened in this case, although growth in this case does not attract as expected. Heading 3, a focus theme – education, research, art and culture –: average growth 2009 to 2012 3.46 percent per year, averaged 0.57 percent per year between 2013 and 2017 – a fact that indicates that something needs to be done, one really wants to keep the ceilings. Heading 1 – Law and security –: average growth 2009 to 2012 1.90 percent per year, between 2013 and 2017 0.14 percent. In other words, this dampened increase is only possible if structural reforms are implemented. In this context, let me give a brief example of what the Court of Auditors understands as structural reforms, and of the Vienna AKH, a hospital which alone causes costs of €1.2 billion per year. It is the largest and most cost-intensive and internationally recognized hospital in Austria, responsible for the central care of Austria, also responsible for multiplying the research performance of the medical universities. This is widely accepted, and yet, due to the separate leadership between the city of Vienna and the federal government, there are always difficulties and conflicts, inefficiencys and double-tracks. Decision-making and financing structures are separate, although the performance of tasks is inseparably interwoven in the case. Management is unexplained by various responsibilities, there is no joint service mandate, no overall financing, no joint personnel planning, no joint management structure. There is no cross-legislative budgeting, no medium-term planning, no common reporting, the budget allocation. Gung is complex and not transparent. There is a lack of a comprehensive computer system in the area, which together also represents the data flows. An example of what one should understand by reform, in the interests of patients: the collegial leadership of the AKH. The Medical Director, the Administrative Director and the Care Director are responsible for the staff of the City of Vienna, the Rector is responsible for the Federal Services. The result is that the medical director can only limit or not perceive his supervisory possibilities at all. The doctors do the night in the case of journal services, i.e. they are there for emergency care. The operating staff, officials of the city of Vienna, perform full service during the night, regular service. In this case, this leads to an utilization of between 17 percent and 54 percent. That is to say, we have an administrative burden in this area, which is at the expense of the patients. I would also like to mention that the delegation of tasks to the care staff has not been implemented. Why? – In the Court of Auditors' view, this is due to the fact that, if necessary, additional care staff can be paid from the city of Vienna, while a discharge of the doctors who are to be paid by the federal government benefits the federal government. That is to say, the economic measure required would be an overall consideration, but precisely this view is missing. Perhaps another point to show you where patients can be saved in the sense of patients. In the AKH, there have been bedblocks alone in the last six years, which have caused costs of more than €300 million. 40 percent of the bed locks were made for personal reasons, mainly due to lack of assigned care posts or high downtimes. The strategy against high bedlocks and their costs is not recognizable. These are the problems not only in the AKH, but in general in the health sector which it is important to address. In other words, if you want to achieve a recognised position in health care and also in the AKH, you need to combine responsibility for tasks, expenditure and financing. It has been briefly mentioned that the above example is intended to demonstrate the need for action. Sustainable budgetary policies in the interests of all local authorities, including the federal and state governments, require improved transparency through new budgetary management in order to be able to manage targetedly, and structural reforms to ensure that public funds are used efficiently and sustainably in the interests of citizens. I have mentioned this because it is the task of the Court of Auditors to point out this and, in view of Article 13(2) of the Federal Constitution, which aims to achieve a macroeconomic balance in providing you with facts and figures so that you can exercise your responsibility. What the Court of Auditors can do in the field, it will do during this legislative period. I thank you for the cooperation and wish you all a happy Christmas and a good slide!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22478	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Is this also researched what you told me?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's right!]] We shall proceed to the vote. [[New calls from Deputies Dr. Jarolim and Dr. Fekter.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I will return to the old practice: Interlocutory calls during voting are served with a call for regulations. [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 12 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority again. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:02:56]] 9. Second reading: Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment No 42/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder, Karlheinz Kopf, Ing. Norbert Hofer, Dieter Brosz, MSc, Dr. Kathrin Nachbaur, Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Law 1975) (4d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22573	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are three words on this, and we have an increased quota. - That's for your planning. There was no oral reporting. Mr Spindelberger is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22603	In view of the fact that six parties have been present in the House since the last National Council elections, it was necessary to adapt the Rules of Procedure and thus adapt to the current circumstances. This has led us – all six parties represented here – to consider making our meetings more efficient and shorter in the future. This joint motion, which is now before us, proposes that we reduce the speaking time of the individual Members, with a truly fair relationship between all political groups, which is the time to speak. However, it is also worth mentioning for me in this context that we should take seriously the opportunity to shape our daily processes in such a way as to bring about shorter meetings, and that therefore, in the future, extremely many agenda items should be distributed over several days. We all have often come to the situation that we had to hold marathon meetings of 14, 15 or even 16 hours, and this should finally belong to the past. This means that it will be up to us how we will shape the process here in the House in the future. In fact, it does not benefit us at all if we – like the corner points the new law is to be found – the day block time of the individual clubs is reduced and we often make life more difficult again through senseless actionism than it would be necessary. We should also perhaps think about it at a quiet hour, which, if, for example, there is already a current hour or a question hour on the agenda, we should also make a urgent request at almost every meeting, or in addition, requests which, like today, perhaps lead to several national votes. I think that if we are dealing with serious efficiency in the Rules of Procedure, we might consider, for example, the urgent need to deal with requests made at the next plenary session. I also believe that this would be a step in the right direction, so that the course of our session days would be better designed for all of us and therefore planable.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22646	Mrs Himmelbauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22667	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! When I was in this house for the first time and held an agenda in my hand and read the term “Vienna Hours”, I asked a little joke about my Vienna colleagues whether Vienna was not only different, but also has a very own timetable. Due to the current adjustment of speaking times, the duration of a “Wien hour” will also be increased to 61 minutes. Mr Spindelberger has already explained in detail, perhaps a short summary: With the new Rules of Procedure, the minimum speaking time of a group per plenary day is halved to 30 minutes, without damaging – and this is the important – a fair distribution of speaking time. For it is clear that every political group, but also perhaps future wild Members, should have the space to represent its positions, but also to respond to all the other political groups and comment on their positions. In addition – a further plus – this creates a better planning of the debates or the plenary session itself. Today, I believe, this is also an important sign that all political groups are very likely to take part in this draft. That's what I'm saying. I also hope that we will continue to show the willingness to develop parliamentaryism in Austria. I also hope that these 61 minutes will be used constructively in the future and in the sense of a common whole. - Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22707	Mr Dr Franz is now speaking. Your two minutes, which I will put in your place, are the total rest period. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22729	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! The famous Austrian philosopher Ludwig von Wittgenstein has shaped the following sentence: “What can be said at all is clear; and what one cannot speak of, one must keep silent about it. ” I believe that this sentence has taken our Parliament very centrally and acted afterwards and has been useful in reducing speaking times. Ladies and gentlemen, this request gives us a legitimate hope of a less shady and less boring policy, but at least it gives us the prospect of an amusing rhetoric. The quality of our speeches can only be improved by their reduction, because if the quantity of speech is limited, their quality must necessarily increase. Otherwise, it will be very difficult for all of us in the future to get the interest of the plenary and also to do productive persuasion with the speech. That means we exchange quantity for quality, and that's certainly useful and good. Wittgenstein has said something about the subject by the way. He meant that the border between speech and silence will only be drawn in the language, and what lies beyond that border will simply be nonsense. – This philosopher word can also be used as a scale. I leave the interpretation of the sentence to the House. Certainly, what is nonsense and what is not, one will be better able to diagnose in the future, thanks to Ludwig Wittgenstein and thanks to the new time limit. In this sense: Thank you, christmas, good slide!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22777	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 4 of the supplements. The present draft law may be amended in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be adopted only in the presence of at least half of the Members and by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast. I therefore begin by stating the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – Adopted unanimously. In accordance with Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of this draft law may take place at the earliest 24 hours after the conclusion of the second reading. This means that the third reading will be put back on the agenda at a later meeting. [[22:11:03]] 10. Point Choice of committees
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22829	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. It is for me to put in place the following committees: Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, External Policy Committee, Building Committee, Family Committee, Financial Committee, Committee for Research, Innovation and Technology, Health Committee, Equal Treatment Committee, Justice Committee, Consumer Protection Committee, Cultural Committee, Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Committee on Human Rights, Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, Committee on Sports Affairs, Tourism Committee, Environment Committee, Education Committee, Transport Committee, Public Prosecutor's Committee, Committee on Economics and Industry, Scientific Committee. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them in accordance with the principles laid down in § 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The clubs have to make me famous the members of the committee and substitute members who are responsible for them. These are also considered to be chosen. The members of the Presidential Conference shall propose a number of 24 members and substitute members, each of whom has been defined as follows: Each of 7 members and replacement members on the SPÖ and the ÖVP, 5 members and replacement members on the FPÖ, 3 members and replacement members on the Greens, 1 member and replacement member each on Stronach and NEOS-LIF. We shall vote on this proposal. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The names of the members or substitutes who have been notified to me by the clubs and thus as elected Members of Parliament are listed in the Stenographical Protocol. [[The members and replacement members as well as the elected functions are available on the Internet under “Parliament Active> Committees”.]] [[22:13:10]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Election of members and alternate members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e22904	We're coming to the 11th. Agenda item. There are nominations of the political groups for members and substitutes. As members, the Members of Parliament should be Mag. Gisela Wurm, Werner Amon, MBA, Franz Leonhard Eßl, Dr. Johannes Hübner and Mag. Alev Korun and as substitute members, the representatives Mag. Christine Muttonen, Mag. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Angelikack, Barbara Rosenkranz and Mag. Nikolaus Scherak ==References== Since there is therefore an election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. That is why I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of the electoral proposal which I have announced, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The election of members and substitutes has thus been carried out in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:14:29]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e23021	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 2, 4 to 8 and 10 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I shall therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol. ‘TO point 2: Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1d.b._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Servants Act 1948, the Federal Teachers' Teaching Obligation Act, the Land Teachers' Service Law, the State Contracting Law 1966, the Land and Forestry Law on State Teachers' Service, the Land and Forestry Law on State Contracting Teachers' People's Law, and the Teaching Practice Act is repealed (Service Law Novelle 2013 – Educational Service) (6 d.b.) There is a demand for separate vote Supplement II/1. The honourable Member Dr. Walter Rosenkranz submits the referral request Supplement II/2. There is a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement II/3. Mr Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 2/1 EA). Deputies Dr. Walser, Mag. Dr. Strolz, Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, Dr. Vetter, colleagues and colleagues bring the additional and/or Amendment Addendum 2/2, which is explained in the key points. The President shall have the power, in accordance with section 53, para. 4 GOG the reproduction and distribution. Deputies Mag. Dr. Strolz, Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues and colleagues are tabling the amendment Supplement 2/3. Deputies Mag. Dr. Strolz, colleagues and others are submitting the supplementary request Supplement 2/4. Deputies Mag. Dr. Strolz, Ing. Lugar, Dr. Walser, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 2/5 EA). The vote will take place at The referral request Supplement II/2 shall be voted on and rejected. ==References====External links== Amendment 2/2 is rejected. The amendment Annex 2/3 is rejected. The additional request for Supplement 2/4 is rejected. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal, will be voted by a majority in a separate vote in the second reading in the second reading and in the third reading. Votes cast: 169 Of which yes-voices: 93 No votes: 76 Parliament adopted a resolution Adjournment of the part-session on voting from 19.48 a.m. to 19.59 p.m. The resolution on the focus of internal school reform, which is attached to the Committee's report 6 of the Supplements, is adopted by more than one vote. The resolution accompanying the Committee's report 6 of the Supplements on Teachers' Jobs is adopted unanimously. The resolution on discharge of administrative tasks, annexed to the Committee Report 6 of the Supplements, is adopted unanimously. The resolution on support systems attached to the Committee's report 6 of the Supplements is adopted unanimously. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 2/1 EA, is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 2/5 EA, is hereby rejected. TO point 4: Report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 41/A by Mr Otto Pendl, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues with regard to a federal law which amends the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Staff Act 1948, the Legal and Public Prosecutor's Service Act, the State Law on Services, the Federal Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the the the the the the Law on the Law on the the the the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the To-do point 5: Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 40/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act on the Limitation of Public Officials and the Federal Remuneration Act (9 of Supplements) There is a demand for separate vote supplement IV/2. Deputies Mag. Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 5/1. The Members of Parliament, Mr Kunasek, and the Members of this House, shall submit the supplementary request for an addition to Supplement 4/1. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement IV/1. Mr Lausch, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, put the supplementary request for an annex 4/2. Deputies Mag. Mr Mlinar, colleagues, tabled the resolution Supplement 5/2 EA. Votes: To TO point 4: The additional request Supplement 4/1 to the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection Votes cast: 163 Of which yes-voices: 54 No votes: 109 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting session from 20.44 a.m. to 20.55 p.m. The additional request for Supplement 4/2 is rejected. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 8 of the second reading, will be adopted by a majority vote in a separate vote and by a majority in third reading. To TO point 5: The amendment Annex 5/1 is rejected in the presence of the constitutional number of Members. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 9 of the Supplements, will be adopted by a majority of Members at second and third readings, with the required two-thirds majority. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 5/2 EA, is rejected. To point 6: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (2 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the 2008 Financial Balance Act and the 1996 Civil Fund Act (10 of the Supplements) To point 7: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (3 of the Supplements): Agreement under Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the Upper Austria on the flood protection project ‘Eferdinger Becken’ (11 of the Supplements) Votes: To TO point 6: The draft law is adopted unanimously in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 10 of the second and third reading supplements. To TO point 7: The conclusion of the agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG is approved unanimously in accordance with the Committee's request in 11 of the Supplements. To point 8: Report of the Budget Committee on the financial statements for 2012 (III-2 of the Supplements) and on the federal accounts for the year 2012 (Proposal for a comparison of estimates as at 31. March 2013) (III-1 of the Supplements) (12 of the Supplements) The vote will take place at The draft law will be adopted by a majority in the second and third readings, in accordance with the Committee's proposal. To point 10: Choice of committees The National Council shall adopt unanimously the following committees: Committee on Labour and Social Affairs Committee on Foreign Affairs Building Committee Family Committee Financial Committee Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology Health Committee Equal treatment committee Justice Committee Consumer Protection Committee Cultural Committee Committee on Agriculture and Forestry Committee on Human Rights Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives Committee on Sports Tourism Committee Environment Committee Information Committee Transport Committee Public Prosecutor's Committee Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy Science Committee In addition, a committee size of 24 members and replacement members shall be set for these committees, which shall be distributed among the political groups as follows: SPÖ each 7 members and replacement members ÖVP per 7 members and replacement members FPÖ per 5 members and replacement members GROUNDS per 3 members and replacement members STRONACH per 1 member and replacement member NEOS-LIF per 1 member and replacement member There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 delegates to read the Official Protocol on Agenda items 2, 4 to 8 and 10 before (Annex C).’ Ladies and gentlemen! I hope you listened attentively. [[Cheerfulness and general applause.]] Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[22:23:31]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-12-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00007_d8e23387	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 80/A to 116/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 239/J to 277/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations is scheduled for 22.24 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
